 EXCHANGE ARRANGEMENTS EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS AND ANNUAL REPORT 1996 Special Supplement ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution © 1997 International Monetary Fund ISSN 0250-7366 ISBN 1-55775-660-0 Please send orders to: In terna t ional Monetary Fund, Publication Services 700 19th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20431, U.S.A. Tel: (202) 623-7430 Telefax: (202) 623-7201 Internet: publications@imf.org recycled paper ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Preface Definitions of Acronyms Introduction Page v vii 1 Philippines Poland Portugal Romania Russia Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Thailand Turkey United Kingdom United States Uruguay Venezuela Appendix. Country Table Matrix Page 210 218 226 230 235 240 247 256 261 265 269 276 282 286 291 295 300 Argentina Australia Austria Belgium and Luxembourg Brazil Canada Chile China CotedTvoire Czech Republic Denmark Egypt Finland France Germany Ghana Greece Iceland India Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy Japan Kazakstan Kenya Korea, Republic of Lithuania Malaysia Mexico Morocco Netherlands New Zealand Norway Pakistan Peru Page 3 8 13 17 21 34 38 47 56 63 68 71 76 80 85 89 96 100 104 115 122 125 132 136 141 145 149 159 163 170 177 187 191 195 199 206 in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PREFACE The Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions has been published an- nually by the IMF since 1950. It draws on information available to the IMF from a number of sources, in- cluding that provided in the course of official visits to member countries, and it has been prepared in close consultation with national authorities. This Special Supplement presents the information included in the 1996 Annual Report in a new tabular format and expands the coverage on the regulations on capital trans- actions. The Supplement was prepared as a pilot for the 1997 Annual Report on Exchange Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions. The 52 countries covered in this Special Supplement have been selected as those where expanded in- formation on the regulatory framework for capital movements was readily available to the IMF. They in- clude countries that participated in a pilot data collection project on the regulatory framework for capital transactions conducted by the IMF in 1996, and member countries of the OECD. The information pre- sented refers in most cases to the positions as of end-1995. This project was coordinated in the Monetary and Exchange Affairs Department by a staff team di- rected by R. Barry Johnston, and comprising Susana Sosa, Alexander Kyei, Virgilio Sandoval, and Fabienne Piccinni. The report was edited by Gail Berre of the External Relations Department, and was designed and produced by Ms. Piccinni and the IMF Graphics Section. V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEFINITIONS OF ACRONYMS Note: This list does not include acronyms of purely national institutions mentioned in the country chapters. ACP ACU AFTA AMU Atlantic, Caribbean, and Pacific countries Asian Clearing Union (integrated by Bangladesh, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka) ASEAN free trade area (see ASEAN, below) Asian monetary unit ANZCERTA Australia-New Zealand Closer Economic Relations and Trade Agreement ASEAN ATC BCEAO BEAC BLEU CAP CARICOM CET CFA CIS CMA CMEA Association of Southeast Asian Nations (integrated by Brunei, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand) Agreement of Textiles and Clothing Central Bank of West African States (Banque centrale des etats de TAfrique de Fouest). (The West African States are: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) Bank of Central African States (Banque des etats de TAfrique centrale). (The Central African states are: Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, the Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon) Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union Common agricultural policy (of the EU) Caribbean Common Market (integrated by Antigua and Barbuda, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago) Common external tariff African Financial Community (Communaute financiere africaine) Commonwealth of Independent States Common monetary area (a single exchange control territory comprising Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (dissolved) (Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, USSR, and Vietnam) CPI Consumer price index ECOWAS Economic Community of West African States (Cedeao) ECSC ECU EEA EFTA EMS ERM EU FSU GATT GSP European Coal and Steel Community European currency unit European economic area European Free Trade Association European monetary system Exchange rate mechanism (of the EMS) European Union (formerly European Community), (integrated by Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and United Kingdom) Former Soviet Union General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade Generalized system of preferences vn ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEFINITIONS OF ACRONYMS LAIA Latin American Integration Association (integrated by Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela) LIBOR London interbank offered rate MERCOSUR Southern Cone Common Market (integrated by Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay) MFA MFN Multifiber Arrangement Most favored nation NAFTA North American Free Trade Agreement NATO OECD PTA SACU North Atlantic Treaty Organization Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Preferential trade area for eastern and southern African states Southern African Customs Union (integrated by Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia, South Africa, and Swaziland) SDRs Special drawing rights SPARTECA South Pacific Regional Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreement (signed by Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and Western Samoa) UN WAEC WAEMU United Nations West African Economic Community (CEAO) (dissolved) West African Economic and Monetary Union (formerly WAMU, integrated by Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d'lvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) WTO World Trade Organization (supersedes GATT) V l ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTRODUCTION The Special Supplement seeks to provide information on countries' exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions using a standardized approach with the intention of enhancing transparency and the uniformity of treatment of the informa- tion among countries. The new format also expands the cover- age on the regulatory framework for capital movements. The information is drawn from a new exchange arrangements and exchange restrictions database established by the IMF. The following country tables present an abstract of the relevant information available to the Fund; a country table matrix in- cluded in an appendix provides a listing of the possible entries in this database. The tabular presentation is organized as follows: Status Under the IMF Articles of Agreement indicates whether the member country has accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4 of the IMF's Articles of Agreement or whether the country continues to avail itself of the transitional arrangements of Article XIV, Section 2. Exchange Arrangement provides the description of the exchange arrangement that member countries have furnished to the IMF under Article IV, Section 2(#), including the ex- change rate structure (i.e., whether there is one, two, or mul- tiple exchange rates); the classification of exchange arrange- ments on the basis of how the exchange rate is determined in the main market when there is more than one market; the exis- tence of exchange taxes or subsidies; and the features of for- ward exchange markets, if any. Off ic ial coverage of forward operations refers to the case where an official entity (the cen- tral bank or the government) assumes the exchange risk of a certain foreign exchange transaction. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts provides a description, where appropriate, of prescription of currency requirements, the nature of payments arrangements, admini- stration of exchange control, international security restrictions, the nature of payments arrears, and controls on the trading of gold and of domestic and foreign banknotes. The subsection Prescription of currency requirements describes the require- ments affecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries. When a country has concluded payments agreements with other coun- tries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. Under the subsection Admini- stration of control, some indication is given of the authorities' responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for working purposes. The subsection International security restrictions identifies restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions imposed by member countries for reasons of national or international security. IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) establishes the obligation of members to notify the Fund before imposing such restrictions, or if circumstances preclude advance notification to the Fund, the member should no t ify the Fund as promptly as possible, but ordinarily not later than 30 days after imposing the re- strictions. Resident Accounts and Nonresident Accounts describe the manner in which the country treats accounts, if any, maintained in its currency or in foreign currency, locally or abroad, by resident or nonresident account holders, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. When there is more than one type of resident/nonresident account, the nature and operation of the various types are also de- scribed. Imports and Import Payments. This section seeks to de- scribe the nature and extent of exchange and trade restrictions on imports and includes information on the existence of a foreign exchange budget (i.e., a priori allocation of a certain amount of foreign exchange, usually on an annual basis, for the importation of specific types of goods, sometimes indicat- ing amounts for specified registered importers); on financing requirements for imports (minimum financing and advance payments requirements and the existence of advance depos- its); and on documentation requirements for the release of foreign exchange for the payment of imports, such as the obli- gation to domicile the transactions with a specified financial institution, a preshipment inspection aimed at establishing the veracity of the import transaction in terms of volume, quality, and price, the obligation to pay by means of a letter of credit, and the need to submit an import license to obtain the foreign exchange. Under the subsection Import licenses and other nontariff measures, the following terms are used to describe the licensing system, if any: (I) positive list refers to the exis- tence of a list in which goods that can be imported are listed; (2) negative list refers to the existence of a list in which goods whose importation is prohibited are listed; (3) open general licenses indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements; (4) licenses with quotas refers to cases where a license for the importation of a certain good is granted, but a specific limit is imposed on the amount to be imported; and (5) other nontariff measures could in- clude the prohibition to import a certain good or all goods from a certain country. Also this section provides a brief de- scription of the import tax/tariff system, specifying whether they are collected through the exchange system, and informa- tion on whether state monopolies for the importation of certain goods exist. Exports and Export Proceeds. This section identifies restrictions on the use of export proceeds as well as regula- tions on exports such as financing and documentation re- quirements (including letters of credit, the provision of guar- antees, domiciliation, preshipment inspection, licensing re- quirements, and taxes levied —in particular through the ex- change system—on exports. Repatriation requirement refers to the obligation of exporters to bring into the country exports proceeds either by selling them in the foreign exchange mar- ket or depositing them in authorized accounts. Surrender 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 INTRODUCTION requirements refers to regulations requiring the recipient of export proceeds to sell any foreign exchange proceeds in re- turn for local currency, sometimes at a specified exchange rate, to the central bank, commercial banks, or exchange deal- ers authorized for this purpose. Under Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers, the procedures for permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles are described with reference to prior approval requirements, the existence of quantitative limits and of indicative limits, and/or bona f ide tests. Detailed information on the most common categories of transactions is provided when regulations differ for the various categories. Indicative limits establish maximum amounts up to which the purchase of foreign exchange is allowed upon declaration of the purpose of the transaction, mainly for statistical purposes. Amounts above those limits are granted if the bona fide nature of the transaction is established by presentation of appropriate documentation. Bona fide tests also can be applied for trans- actions for which quantitative limits have not been estab- lished. Under Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Cur- rent Transfers, any regulations governing exchange receipts derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the conversion into domestic currency and use of those receipts are described. The concepts of repatriation and surrender requirement are similar to those applied to ex- port proceeds. Restrictions on the use of funds refers mainly to the limitations imposed on the use of receipts previously deposited in certain bank accounts. The section on Capital Transactions describes regula- tions influencing capital movements. The concepts of controls and capital transactions are interpreted broadly. Thus controls on capital movements includes prohibitions; need for prior approvals, authorizations, and notifications; multiple currency practices; discriminatory taxes; and reserve requirements or interest penalties imposed by the authorities that regulate the conclusion or execution of transactions or transfers with re- spect to both inward and outward capital flows or the holding of assets at home by nonresidents and abroad by residents. The coverage of the regulations would apply to receipts as well as payments and to actions initiated by nonresidents and residents. Moreover, because of their close association with capital movements, information is also provided on local fi- nancial operations conducted in foreign currency. Capital and money market instruments refers to the pub- lic offering or private placement on a primary market or list- ing for offering on a secondary market. Capital market secu- rities refers to shares and other securities of a participatory nature, and bonds and other securities with original maturity above one year. Money market instruments refers to securities of an original maturity of one year or less and includes short- term instruments such as treasury bills, certificates of depos- its, and bills of exchange. Collective investment securities includes share certifi- cates and registry entries or other evidence of investor interest in an institution for collective investment, such as mutual funds, and unit and investment trusts. Derivatives and other instruments refers to operations in other negotiable instruments and nonsecuritized claims not covered under the earlier subsections. These may include op- erations in rights; warrants; financial options and futures; secondary market operations in other financial claims (including sovereign loans, mortgage loans, commercial cred- its, negotiable instruments originating as loans, receivables and discounted bills of trade); forward operations (including forward operations in foreign exchange); swaps of bonds and other debt securities; credits and loans; and other swaps (interest rate, debt/equity, equity/debt, foreign currency and swaps of any of the instruments listed above). Credit operations is subdivided into commercial credits covering operations directly linked with international trade transactions or with the rendering of international services; financial credits, which are credits other than commercial credits; sureties and guarantees, including securities pledged for payment or performance of a contract, such as warrants or avals, performance bonds, and stand-by letters of credit; and financial backup facilities, which cover credit facilities used as a guarantee for independent financial operations. Direct investment refers to investment for the purpose of establishing lasting economic relations, essentially for the purpose of producing goods and services, and, in particular, investments that give the possibility of exercising an effective influence on the management thereof. It includes the creation or extension of a wholly-owned enterprise, subsidiary, or branch and the acquisition of fu ll or partial ownership of a new or existing enterprise that result in effective influence over the operations of this enterprise. Liquidation of direct investment refers to the transfer of principal, including the initial capital and capital gains of a direct investment as de- fined above. Real estate transactions refers to the acquisition of real estate not associated with direct investment. It would include for example investments of a purely financial nature in real estate or the acquisition of real estate for personal use. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions describes regulations that are specific to these institutions, such as monetary and prudential controls, including reserve requirements; liquid asset requirements; interest rates regulations; credit controls; and open foreign exchange position limits. Provisions specific to institutional investors describes controls specific to those institutions, such as insurance companies and pension funds, and may include, for example, controls on the proportion of portfolios of such institutions that may be held in local or foreign assets. Other restrictions imposed by securities laws refers to additional regulations on capital movements imposed by those laws such as restrictions on the listing of foreign securities on local se- curity markets. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vffl Date of acceptance: May 14, 1968. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Argentina is the Argentine peso. Transactions in convertible currencies are permitted, and contracts in these currencies are legally enforceable, although the currencies are not legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The external value of the peso is pegged to the U.S. dollar under a currency board type of arrangement. Exchange rates of other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad. No. No. Swap transactions and forward exchange operations are permitted in any currency, and the rates may be freely negotiated. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Transactions with countries with which there are no payments agreements must be settled in freely convertible currencies. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Argentina has signed agreements with Bulgaria, Cuba, Hungary, Malaysia, and Rus- sia. Payments between Argentina and these countries are settled on a voluntary basis through accounts opened with the Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA) and the other central banks concerned, with the exception of Bulgaria and Cuba, where settlement through the accounts specified in the agreements is obligatory. Within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA, payments be- tween Argentina and Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uru- guay, and Venezuela are settled voluntarily through payment agreements and a recip- rocal credit mechanism. All payments between Argentina and Bolivia and the Domini- can Republic must be made through the accounts specified in the agreements. All exchange transactions are carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose with no restrictions on the purchase or sale of foreign exchange at market prices. These authorized entities include banks, exchange agencies, exchange houses, exchange offices, and financial companies. Each type of institution is subject to sepa- rate regulations. Credit funds and mortgage savings and loan companies may also make certain foreign exchange transactions on the condition that they meet certain additional capital requirements. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 4 ARGENTINA International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions on current payments with respect to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were imposed. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. Financial institutions, exchange houses, and exchange agencies may buy or sell gold in the form of coins or good delivery bars among themselves and may buy such gold from their clients, as well as other precious metals the market value of which is based on the daily list prices of major transactions. The importation of gold coins and good delivery bars is not restricted. Gold exports must be paid for in convertible currencies. Imports of gold by industrial users are subject to a statistical duty of 0.6%, as well as a sales tax. Institutions may carry out arbitrage operations with their clients in gold coins or good delivery gold bars against foreign banknotes. Authorized institutions may export gold to entities abroad. Con t ro ls on exports and impo r ts of bankno tes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts perm i t ted Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos or in foreign exchange provided that identification requirements aimed, inter alia, at preventing money laundering have been met. Foreign exchange accounts must be denominated in convertible currencies and may be credited only with cash or with remittances from abroad in the following currencies: U.S. dollars for current accounts, savings, and fixed-term deposits; and deutsche mark and other currencies that the BCRA explicitly authorizes at the request of financial institutions for deposits in savings and fixed-term accounts. Credit balances may be used freely in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be made freely. The use of checking accounts denominated in U.S. dollars is allowed for domestic transactions. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accoun ts in domes t ic cu r rency con- ve r t ib le into foreign cu r rency Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Same regulations as for resident accounts apply. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 5 Approval required Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar iffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses With quotas Restrictions are in force solely for security, hygiene, and public health reasons. Quantitative restrictions are applied to the automobile sector and to some paper products. There are no nontariff barriers on intra-MERCOSUR trade. However, Argentina ap- plies a special regime to automobile and sugar imports with the authorization of MERCOSUR, pending agreement on a common regime for these sectors. Quantitative restrictions are applied to the automobile sector and to some paper and iron and steel products. A substantial portion of intra-MERCOSUR trade is conducted at a zero tariff rate, but member countries may maintain tariffs for some items. Argentina applies tariffs to certain textiles, paper, and iron and steel products. This regime will be in force until the end of 1998, at which time tariffs will be reduced to zero. Argentina and the MERCOSUR countries apply a common external tariff (CET) to imports from the rest of the world that encompasses all products, with certain excep- tions (Argentina has 300 exceptions) that are subject to a transitional regime until 2001 and 2006. CET rates currently range up to 20%. At the end of the transitional period in 2001, the CET will be 14% for capital goods, and in 2006, the CET will be 16% for computer and telecommunications equipment. A statistical tax of 3% is applied to imports from all countries, except those from MERCOSUR countries. This tax is waived for capital goods, fue l, and sensitive goods from the paper, computer, and telecommunications sectors. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Licenses are required only for goods subject to quantitative restrictions. Quantitative restrictions on exports are maintained only on arms, protected animal species, and products subject to international agreements. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 6 Export taxes ARGENTINA Export rebate rates, which had been equal to import duties were reduced to a range of 3% to 15%, on January 1, 1995 when MERCOSUR became effective. Export rebates were further reduced on March 20, 1995 by 25%. Other rebates of 15% exist for ex- ports of industrial plants and engineering operations sold under turnkey contracts out- side the zone and 10% within the zone. Exports through ports and customs posts on the Colorado River received an additional rebate ranging from 7% to 12% until the end of 1994. Since January 1, 1995, the rates have been reduced by 1% each year. The drawback regime is in addition to the export rebates, allowing exporters to receive refunds of import duties, the statistical tax, and the value-added tax (VAT) that are levied on inputs used in the processing of products for export. To be eligible for the drawback, the exporter must be a direct importer of inputs. Since March 10, 1995, the drawback regime has been adapted to the new MERCOSUR terms, distinguishing between the treatment of exports to member countries of MERCOSUR and those to nonmember countries (Resolution ME&OSP No. 288/95). The temporary admission regime permits the importation, free of consumer and statis- tical taxes, of merchandise for industrial processing, provided that such goods are exported in their new form within 180 days, which may be extended for an additional 180 days. To benefit from the temporary admission regime, the exporter must be the direct user of the merchandise subject to temporary importation. Temporary admission is an alternative to the drawback system, and both cannot be used simultaneously. The financing system for promoted exports has been suspended by Communication A 1807 of March 8, 1991, except with respect to those products that were in the process of exportation at that time. Under Communication A 1994 of August 31, 1992, this sys- tem was transferred to the Investment and Foreign Trade Bank. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Con t ro ls on these payments No. Proceeds from Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments Capital Transactions Under the regulations of the National Securities Commission (CNV), foreign investors wishing to make a public offering of securities in Argentina must meet the same re- quirements as those applicable to Argentine investors. In each case they must establish a permanent representative office and a domicile in Argentina to receive notices. They must state whether the securities are also being offered to the public in their country of origin and specify the initial and periodic information requirements to which they are subject. If the CNV believes that the regulations in the country of origin properly protect local investors and guarantee an adequate flow of information, the CNV may lower the requirements for these investors. The CNV may authorize foreign investors, considering each case individually, to submit only such information as they would periodically submit to the corresponding authority in their jurisdiction of origin. Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA 7 Controls on credit operations Funds lent by residents to nonresidents must be used locally. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Foreign companies are allowed to invest in Argentina without prior government ap- proval on an equal footing with domestic firms. Foreign investors are entitled to the same rights and subject to the same obligations as domestic investors, and may enter into any area of economic activity on their own, because no law or regulation forces them to be associated with local partners. This principle applies even in cases where a foreign investment results in full foreign ownership of a domestic company. Foreign investors are entitled to freely repatriate their investment, including earnings, and they may exercise their right at any time and have unrestricted access to the for- eign exchange market. These rights assisting foreign investors have been further es- tablished under international law by means of over 30 investment promotion and pro- tection agreements, including all countries where foreign investment usually origi- nates, such as Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Argentina is a member of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Center for the Settlement of In- vestment Disputes, and maintains a valid and active agreement with the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. For purchases of real estate in border areas, a foreign investor must seek prior ap- proval for the project from the Border Superintendency of the Ministry of Defense. This limitation exists for national security reasons. Open foreign exchange position limits There is an allowable open foreign currency position (liabilities exceeding assets) of up to 25% of qualifying net assets for two months prior to the reporting month. Provisions specific to ins t i tu t ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad There is a 25% limit on the investment trust portfolio, but this limit does not apply to MERCOSUR. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Also, according to profitability and security criteria, no more than 10% of investments may be made in securities issued by a foreign country, and no more than 10% in the securities of foreign corporations. In the event that the trust's assets consist of the securities, tender offer should be made in Argentina or abroad with a minimum of 75% of the investment being made in as- sets issued and traded in Argentina. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: July 1, 1965. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Australia is the Australian dollar. It also circulates in several other countries, including Kiribati, Nauru, and Tuvalu. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Australian dollar is market determined. Authorized foreign exchange dealers may deal among themselves, with their customers, and with overseas counterparties at mutually negotiated rates for both spot and forward transactions in any currency with regard to trade- and non-trade-related transactions. But the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) retains discretionary power to intervene in the foreign ex- change market. There is no official exchange rate for the Australian dollar. The RBA publishes an indicative rate for the Australian dollar based on market observation at 4 p.m. daily. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy No. No. Forward exchange market Active trading takes place in forward and futures contracts. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescr ip t ion of currency requ irements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions No. No. No. The RBA supervises authorized dealers and regulates open foreign exchange positions. The Australian Transaction Reports and Analysis Center (AUSTRAC), a law enforce- ment agency, receives information on international transactions including those in cash, which it can pass on to a number of other enforcement and governmental agencies. The only restrictions on external payments and transfers are those to give effect to UN Security Council Resolutions imposing sanctions against Iraq and Libya. Restrictions also apply for transactions involving the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugo- slavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Exportation or importation of coins and notes totaling $A5,000 or more must be re- ported to AUSTRAC. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts equivalent to $A5,000 or more must be reported to AUSTRAC. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Resident Accounts 9 Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Local purchases and sales of foreign currency must be through an authorized dealer. No. Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Conversion must be done through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Local purchases and sales of foreign currency must be through an authorized dealer. No. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Conversion must be done through an authorized foreign exchange dealer. Approval required Blocked accounts No. Only those accounts affected by UN sanctions are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no import-licensing requirements or quotas on imports other than the tariff quota, which applies to certain cheeses and curd. Negative list Import taxes and/or tar i f fs For some products, imports are allowed only if written authorization is obtained from the relevant authorities or if certain regulations are complied with. Among the goods subject to control are narcotic, psychotropic, and therapeutic substances, firearms and certain weapons, certain chemicals and primary commodities, some glazed ceramic ware, and various dangerous goods. These controls are maintained mainly to meet health and safety requirements; to meet certain requirements for labeling, packaging, or technical specifications; and to satisfy certain obligations arising from Australia's membership in international commodity agreements. Australia is implementing a tariff reform program that will reduce most rates to a maximum of 5% by July 1996. Tariffs on passenger automobiles will decline to 15% from 35%, while tariffs on textiles, footwear, and clothing will decline to a maximum of 25% by the year 2000. Tariff quotas on textiles, footwear, and clothing were elimi- nated in March 1993, while most specific duties were converted to ad valorem duties in July 1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 10 AUSTRALIA The ANZCERTA establishes free trade in goods. The SPARTECA provides nonrecip- rocal, duty-free access to most markets in Australia and New Zealand for other mem- bers. Trade between Papua New Guinea and Australia is covered by the Agreement on Trade and Commercial Relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea. Developing countries receive tariff preferences on exports to Australia under the Aus- tralian System of Tariff Preferences for Developing Countries, with a uniform prefer- ential margin of 5%. Preferences have been eliminated on imports of certain industries such as textiles, clothing and footwear, chemicals, vegetable and fruit preparations, tuna, and sugar, except from the least-developed countries and South Pacific Island Territories. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Export prohibitions and restrictions in effect are designed to ensure quality control, administer trade embargoes, and meet obligations under international arrangements. These prohibitions are also set up to restrict the exportation of certain defense materi- als; regulate the exportation of goods that involve high technology and have dual civil- ian and military applications; maintain adequate measures of control over designated cultural property, resources, flora, and fauna; secure conservation objectives; and re- spond to specific market distortions abroad. Remaining controls on primary products apply mainly to food and agricultural products. Approval must be obtained from the government to export coal, liquid natural gas, bauxite, and mineral sands. Export controls apply to uranium to ensure compliance with the government's nonproliferation policy obligations. Restrictions also apply to certain other nuclear and related materials. Licenses are required for exports of unproc- essed wood, including wood chips. The Australian Dairy Corporation administers ex- port control powers in relation to prescribed dairy products under the provisions of the Dairy Produce Act. All exporters of controlled dairy products must be licensed. This system allows the control of exports to markets where quantitative restrictions apply and ensures that export prices do not fall below minimum prices agreed to under the GATT for these products. Exports of red meat and livestock can be made only by persons or firms licensed by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation (AMLC). The AMLC has the power to engage in export trading in its own right and may introduce arrangements to control Australian exports to that market to observe quantitative restrictions in any particular market. Other Commonwealth statutory marketing authorities that have export control powers are the Australian Horticultural Corporation, the Australian Honey Board, the Australian Wheat Board, and the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation. The Australian Wheat Board's powers make it the sole exporter of Australian wheat. Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 11 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on cred it operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Capital Transactions The purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature, which may be affected by laws on inward direct investment, is restricted. Foreign governments, their agencies, and international organizations are not permitted to issue bearer bonds and, when borrowing in the Australian capital market, must advise the Australian authori- ties of the details of each borrowing after its completion. Overseas banks not author- ized to do banking business in Australia may not, without prior approval of the Treas- urer, issue securities in the name of the bank if they include "bank" or words of similar import. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Prior authorization is required for: (1) proposals by foreign interests that would result in the ownership of a shareholding of 15% or more by a single foreign interest or asso- ciates, or 40% or more by two or more unrelated foreign interests in an Australian cor- poration; however, foreign investment in businesses with total assets of less than $A5 million (less than $A3 million for rural properties) is exempt from examination and notification; (2) all investments in those sectors are subject to special restrictions; (3) proposals to establish new businesses in other sectors of the economy where the total amount of the investment is $A10 million or more; and (4) exemption from taxa- tion on interest earned on investment of international organizations, foreign central banks, and other monetary authorities. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents All acquisitions of real estate must be notified, unless exempt by regulation. Acquisi- tions of nonresidential commercial real estate for development are normally approved, as are acquisitions of developed nonresidential commercial real estate subject to such acquisitions being made with 50% Australian equity participation; where Australian equity is not available, 100% acquisitions by foreign interests are approved unless they are contrary to the national interest. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 12 AUSTRALIA Approval is also normally granted for residential land for development and for the ac- quisitions of dwellings (including condominiums), direct from a developer, either "off the plan," while under construction, or completed but never occupied, provided that no more than 50% of the total number of dwellings is sold to foreign investors. Foreign acquisitions of established residential real estate are not normally approved except in cases involving temporary residents who require accommodation for a period in excess of 12 months, subject to resale of the property upon departure. Foreign per- sons who are entitled to reside permanently in Australia are not required to seek ap- proval to acquire any form of residential real estate. Foreign acquisition of residential real estate (including condominiums) within a designated "integrated tourist resort" is exempt from authorization. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Credit controls Open foreign exchange position limits Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of Acceptance: August 1, 1962. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange Arrangement The currency of Austria is the Austrian schilling. No. Unitary. Austria participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, Aus- tria maintains the spot exchange rates between the schilling and the currencies of the other participants within margins of ±15% around the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs, and continues to keep the schilling's external value constant against the deutsche mark. However, to ensure a proper functioning of the system, the Austrian authorities intervene in concert with the other EMS members to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates—the intervention currencies being each other's and the U.S. dollar. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with all countries may be made either in foreign currencies or through free schilling accounts. Bilateral payments arrangements There are no bilateral payments agreements; however, several bilateral agreements exist for the promotion and protection of investments, which include provisions on transfers between the signatories. Adm in istrat ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Most exchange transactions are effected through Austrian banks authorized by the cen- tral bank. Regulation No. 241/94 of the EU Council regarding the further discontinuation of the economic and financial relations between the EU and the areas of Bosnia and Herze- govina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces is in force since January 1, 1995. Re- strictions are imposed on certain current payments and transfers to Libya in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 833 (1993). Certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions to the government of Iraq are still in force. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 14 AUSTRIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. These are accounts affected by UN sanctions. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Export and import licenses must be issued by the Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs for industrial products and by the Federal Ministry of Agricultural and Forestry for agricultural products. In instances where the customs authorities are authorized to issue import and export licenses on behalf of these ministries, licenses are granted without delay or formal application when the goods clear customs. As a member of the EU, Austria applies all import regulations based on the common commercial policy (Art. 113 EEC) i.e., for industrial product import restrictions in the textiles and clothing sector and statistical surveillance for products falling under the scope of the ECSC Treaty. There are also regulations vis-a-vis China for imports of some consumer products based on current EU law. Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Austria applies the Common Import Regime of the EU. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses AUSTRIA 15 No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for regulated exports must be obtained from the relevant ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs authorities. For most exports, licenses are not re- quired. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant EU trade agreements and the fu lf i l lment of quotas established in accordance with such agreements and the needs of the Austrian economy. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repa tr ia t ion requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Outward direct investment Investments above 8100,000 must be reported to the Austrian National Bank. Inward direct investment In the auditing and legal profession, the transport sector, and the electric power gen- eration sector, certain restrictions apply for investments by nonresidents and Austrian residents who are not nationals of one of the countries of the EEA. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transact ions Purchase locally by nonresidents The acquisition of real estate is subject to approval by local authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 16 AUSTRIA Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits An open position must not exceed 30% of own funds at the end of any business day; the total sum of all open positions must not exceed 50% of own funds. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Ar t ic le VIII Date of Acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure C la s s i f ica t ion Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Belgium is the Belgian franc, and the currency of Luxembourg is the Luxembourg franc. Belgium and Luxembourg are linked in a monetary association, and the Luxembourg franc is at par with the Belgian franc. No. Unitary. Belgium and Luxembourg participate in the ERM of the EMS. hi accordance with this agreement, Belgium and Luxembourg maintain spot exchange rates between their cur- rencies and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15% above or below the cross rates derived from the central rates expressed in ECUs. No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any cur- rency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements B i lateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Adm in istrat ion of control Internat ional security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. No. Belgium and Luxembourg apply exchange restrictions against Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Belgium also imposes exchange restric- tions on Libya and on the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of the Bosnian Serb forces. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bu l l ion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 18 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- ver t ib le into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. There are accounts affected by international security restrictions. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Individual licenses are required for certain specified imports from all countries (most imports do not require an import license when imported from the member countries of the EU), including many textile and steel products, certain agricultural products, food- stuffs, diamonds, weapons, and nontextile products from China. All other commodities are free of license requirements. Along with other EU countries, BLEU applies quotas on a number of textile products from non-EU countries in the framework of the MFA and also applies a system of minimum import prices to foreign steel products; quotas on a number of steel products from Kazakstan, Russia, and Ukraine; and quotas on a number of products from China (toys, shoes, ceramic, porcelain, and glassware). Belgium applies the Common Import Regime of the EU to imports of most other agri- cultural and livestock products from non-EU countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG 19 Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Export licenses are required only for a few products, mostly of a strategic character, and for diamonds and for some iron and steel products. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments The public issue or sale of debt, money market, and collective investment securities that are not of EU origin is restricted. Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The public issue or sale of instruments and claims that are not of EU origin is restricted. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on d irect investment Inward direct investment No authorization is required for inward direct investment in Belgium, except for a take- over by or on behalf of a person, company, or institution from a non-EU state, and the acquisition of Belgian flag vessels by shipping companies not having their principal office in Belgium. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions spec i f ic to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 20 BELGIUM AND LUXEMBOURG Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position as of February 29, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual Classification Managed floating Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Brazil is the real (plural reais). No. The dual exchange rate market comprises an official (also identified as "free" or com- mercial) and a tourist (or floating) exchange rate. The same exchange rates apply to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the cur- rencies concerned in the international market. hi both exchange markets, the rates are freely negotiated between the authorized deal- ers and their clients. Banks make arbitrage operations between both markets; such transactions may be carried out either on a spot basis by cable or on a forward basis and must be settled within two working days for spot transactions. The Central Bank of Brazil (CBB) has set an adjustable band for the external value of the real. Since Janu- ary 30, 1996, the band has been RS0.97 to R$l .06 per U.S. dollar. Transactions in the exchange markets are carried out by banks, brokers, and tourist agencies authorized to deal in foreign exchange; the tourist agencies and brokers deal only in banknotes and traveler's checks. No. Banks are permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange to each other without restriction; such transactions may be carried out on a forward basis and must be settled within 180 days. Banks may pay their clients a premium, corresponding to the expected variation of the domestic currency in relation to the currency subject to negotiation, by reason of forward operations, hi addition, when an exchange contract for forward settlement is concluded, banks can provide short-term financing to exporters by providing domestic currency in advance, before or after the shipment of goods. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Other payments arrangements Clearing agreements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency is related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise prescribed or authorized. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries are made in agreement dollars through the relevant agreement account. Settlements with countries with which Brazil has no pay- ments agreements and no special payments arrangements are made in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Hungary are made in third-country currencies every 90 days, and in- terest rates payable on balances are based on those in the international capital market. Payments between Brazil and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela can be made 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 22 BRAZIL Administration of control Exchange control authorities Payments arrears Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullions) through special central bank accounts within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. The National Monetary Council is responsible for formulating overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the council, exchange controls, regulations affecting foreign capital, and the management of international reserves are under the jurisdiction of the CBB. The Ministry of Planning and Budget enforces limits on foreign borrowing by the public sector. The foreign trade policy is formulated by the Ministry of Industry, Trade, and Tourism, implemented by the Secretariat of Foreign Trade (SECEX) and carried out by the Department of Foreign Trade Operations (DECEX). The Department of International Negotiations (DEINT) or the SECEX is responsible for formulating guidelines for tariff policy. The DEINT also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The Ministry of Finance coordinates public sector import policy. Foreign exchange for payments of principal and interest, corresponding to medium- and long-term debt in arrears over 180 days, must be obtained in the floating-rate exchange market. There are two separate markets for gold transaction: the financial and commercial mar- kets. Over 50% of transactions occur in the financial market, which is regulated by the CBB. The first domestic negotiation of newly mined gold on this market is subject to a 1 % financial transactions tax. Rules regarding gold transactions for industrial purposes are defined separately by the federal states, which also establish different rates for the commercial tax levied on them. The CBB and authorized institutions are empowered to buy and sell gold on the domestic and international markets. Purchases of gold are made at current domestic and international prices; the international price is considered a target price. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Yes. Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The CBB and authorized institutions may buy and sell gold for monetary use on the international market. Imports and exports of gold for nonmonetary use are subject to the same procedures as those that are applied through the SECEX in respect of other products. Travelers may take out or bring in domestic and foreign banknotes without restriction but must declare to customs any amount over US$10,000 or the equivalent in other currencies. Foreign tourists leaving Brazil may buy foreign currency up to 50% of the amount exchanged into domestic currency during the visit. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vert ib le into foreign currency Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Institutions authorized to operate in the floating-rate market, tourism agencies, the Brazilian mail, credit card companies, the Brazilian Reinsurance Institute (IRB) may open these accounts. Yes. No. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures BRAZIL 23 Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Embassies, foreign delegations, and international organizations recognized by the Brazilian government; foreign companies of international transportation; foreign citi- zens in transit in the country; and Brazilian citizens living abroad may open these ac- counts. No. Yes. Financial institutions and nonfinancial natural or juridical persons, when the balance originated in a sale of foreign currency to a Brazilian bank, may hold these accounts (deposits on these accounts are not convertible). Imports and Import Payments The SECEX may approve applications for payment for imports of any goods at terms of up to 720 days from the date of shipment without prior authorization from the CBB. External financing at terms in excess of 720 days for imports must be authorized by the CBB, which will evaluate them in the light of foreign debt policy. Payment of the amount financed at maturities over 360 days and accrued interest may be made only upon presentation of a certificate of authorization and a payment schedule issued by the Department of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) of the CBB. The time to settle anticipatory settlements for critical imports is 30 days. Exchange contracts may be settled within 180 days. All importers must be registered with the SECEX, and goods may be imported only by registered firms or persons, except for imports by the public sector (federal, statal, and municipal); imports by PETROBRAS (Brazilian government oil enterprise) contracting or subcontracting firms for oil exploration through risk contracts; imports of medicines by persons up to US$5,000; imports of samples without commercial purpose, except for pharmaceutical products up to US$1,000; imports of products, except for those prohib- ited or under special control by persons for personal consumption; and imports of goods considered as a passenger's baggage for personal consumption. Imports are grouped into the following three broad categories: (1) imports that do not require prior adminis- trative documentation, including samples without commercial value and certain educa- tional materials; (2) imports that require an import license issued by the DECEX; and (3) prohibited imports. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange in the exchange market within 180 days of the settlement date. There is also a limit on the direct importation and pur- chase on the domestic market of consumer goods by the public sector (the government, autonomous agencies, and public enterprises). The drafts or letters of credit must be settled on maturity against the presentation of the appropriate documents by the importer. Official education and research institutions and the Ministry of Health may settle contracts within 360 days following the same rules. Exchange contracts for imports financed under letters of credit must be closed on the date of settlement or two working days before the maturity date of the letters of credit. Federal ministries and subordinate agencies and public enterprises are required to submit, for approval by the president, an annual investment program specifying their expected import requirements. Most imports require prior approval from the DECEX (i.e., an import license), which is usually given promptly to registered importers of nonprohibited items. As a rule, certificates are valid for 60 days, except for imports of capital goods, with the exception of custom made capital goods. The Technical Department of Commercial Interchange (DTIC) issues clearance certificates for certain groups of commodities to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 24 BRAZIL Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tar iffs special bonded warehouse importers. Import licenses for a number of specified imports may be obtained after the landing of commodities and the settlement of customs clearance. The importation of certain products requires approval of the Ministry of Science and Technology. For some products, eligibility for exemption from import duties may be precluded by the existence of exemptions on taxes on domestic transactions of an equivalent amount. Selected imports are exempt from prior approval requirements, including imports to the free trade zone of Manaus, wheat and petroleum imports, imports under the drawback scheme, and imports of goods included in trade agreements negotiated with LAIA member countries. Prohibited imports include agrochemical products not authorized under Brazilian regulations and certain drugs that are not licensed for reasons of security, health, mo- rality, or industrial policy. Besides imports under Brazilian concessions subject to quotas due to agreements be- tween the LAIA member countries, goods imported into the Manaus and Tabatinga free zones are subject to an annual quota. Foreign goods up to the equivalent of US$2,000 imported into the Manaus free-trade zone can be transferred to other parts of Brazil (as a passenger's baggage) free of import taxes. The MERCOSUR customs union agreement stipulates a common external tariff (GET) ranging from zero to 20% on about 85% of traded goods, and the remaining 15% of goods (including a list of national exceptions, capital goods, and computer goods) are subject to a schedule of adjustments designed to bring them into line with the GET within five or six years. The Adjustment Regime allows Brazil and Argentina to main- tain tariffs on some intra-area trade until January 1, 1999, and Paraguay and Uruguay to maintain some intra-area tariffs until January 1, 2000. In April, 1995, Brazil in- creased the number of goods on its list of national exceptions to MERCOSUR to 450 from 300. In May 1995, the authorities announced that import duties on vehicles would decline to 62% by January 1996 and to 30% by April 1996. Tariffs on footwear were also raised to 47-63% from 20% with plans to reduce them back to 20% by April 1996. Taxes collected through the exchange system A financial transactions tax of 25% is levied on exchange operations effected for the payment of imports of services. State import monopoly Imports of petroleum and derivatives are conducted by the state. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. Yes. Advances on foreign exchange contracts are allowed for operations with terms exceed- ing 360 days, and the time for anticipatory settlements is 180 days. Also, for products considered essential for the supply of the domestic market (fuel, mineral oils, chemical products, plastics, wood pastes, paper, cotton, linen and synthetic thread, flat steel, and aluminum) the maximum period is 180 days. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Inspection is required for commodities subject to standardization. Other Export licenses Documentation includes invoices, international shipment notification, and export registration. Exports of wild animals and their hides, hairs, plumes or eggs in any form; jacaranda- da-Bahia wood; ipecacuanha plant; red and drab varieties of honey; and antiques of more than 100 years are prohibited. Exports of certain goods require the prior approval of the SECEX, including those effected through bilateral accounts, exports without exchange cover, exports on consignment, reexports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by the SECEX, and exports requiring prior authorization from government agencies. The Integrated Foreign Trade System (Sistema Integrado de ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 25 Comercio Exterior (SISCOMEX)) integrates activities related to the registration, monitoring, and control of foreign trade operations in a single computerized flow of information. The SISCOMEX comprises two subsystems (exports and imports). The exports subsystem has allowed exporters, carriers, banks, and brokers to register the various stages of an export process directly through the interlinked computers of the SECEX, customs, and the CBB. The import subsystem is being developed. Exports of sawed or cleft pine woods, mahogany, Brazilian walnut, and virola are sub- ject to quotas. Furthermore, for exports of ethyl alcohol and sugar in any form, includ- ing sugar cane syrup inappropriate for human consumption, to be eligible for exemp- tion from the export tax of 40%, they must comply with the requirement that domestic needs are satisfied, as authorized by the Industry, Trade, and Tourism Minister and the Finance Minister. Exports are free from export duty, except exports of raw hides, which are subject to an export duty of 9%. Exports of coffee and cocoa are subject to a zero rate duty. Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for current invisibles not covered by current regulations require approval from the CBB's Exchange Department (DECAM) or the FIRCE. Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Profit/dividends Yes. No. Yes. There are established rules and surveillance procedures related to the operations freely conducted in the market. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. Payments for medium- and long-term external debt are subject to prior approval by and registration with the FIRCE, and the issue of a certificate of registration, which is the authorization to remit abroad the related interest, expenses, and fees, provided that due taxes were paid. In addition to certain restrictions on remittances stipulated in the Foreign Investment Law of 1962, limits on income tax deductions are placed on remittances of all royalties and technical assistance fees. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 26 BRAZIL Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvest- ments and the contracts for patents and trademarks and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered with the FIRCE in accordance with the estab- lished rules. Profit remittances are exempt from withholding for income tax purposes. Amounts due as royalties for patents or for the use of trademarks, as well as for techni- cal, scientific, and administrative assistance and the like, may be deducted from income tax liability to determine the taxable income, up to the limit of 5% of gross receipts in the first five years of the company's operation; amounts exceeding this limit are consid- ered profits. Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. No. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL 27 Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No. No. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold to the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents The direct purchase of shares of Brazilian companies by nonresidents basically occurs through direct investments and portfolio investments made by institutional investors through the managers of the respective portfolios. Depository receipts (DRs) constitute another method of acquiring shares through stock exchanges. They provide a mecha- nism for the placement of shares of Brazilian enterprises in the international markets. DRs are certificates representing a certain number of shares of a given enterprise that confer upon their holders all of the rights inherent in said shares, including dividends, bonuses, splits, and market-quoted value. A Brazilian sponsoring enterprise places its shares in the custody of an institution headquartered in Brazil and authorized by the Securities Commission (CVM) to provide custody services for the specific purpose of DR issues (custodian institution). At the same time, an institution abroad (the deposi- tory bank) issues the corresponding DRs based on the securities held in custody in Brazil. Investments effected through the DR mechanism are exempt from income tax on capital gains. The rate applicable to earnings obtained in Brazil is 10%, as these are investments in variable-income assets. As for other securities such as debentures and other fixed-income securities, the regu- lations do not provide for direct purchases by nonresidents, although they may be ef- fected indirectly through investment funds. Securities portfolios held in the country by foreign institutional investors (i.e., pension funds, nonprofit institutions, and insurance companies) must be managed by an institution operating in the country and authorized by the CVM. The foreign investor has the option of applying for two types of registra- tion for the portfolio: an "individual account" or an "omnibus account." The individual account registration allows the investor to operate in its own name only, while the om- nibus account registration allows the account holder to operate only on behalf of third parties, known in the market as "passengers." The management institution is responsible for the registration of foreign investment with the CBB, foreign exchange settlements, the collection of taxes, portfolio book- keeping, and the safekeeping of documents related to the portfolio. There is no limit or hold period for financial transfers resulting from inflows, flowbacks, and profits or dividends from capital duly registered with the CBB, provided that the accounting rules and tax laws are complied with. The transfers must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, with guaranteed access to the free foreign exchange market to purchase foreign currency. To promote greater integration of the capital markets of the signatory countries of the Treaty of Asuncion (MERCOSUR), an additional mechanism was established in 1992 to attract foreign resources targeting the Brazilian stock market. Natural and juridical ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 28 BRAZIL persons resident or domiciled in MERCOSUR-treaty countries may invest freely in Brazilian stock exchanges without having to trade through investment funds or portfo- lios. The Brazilian market may be accessed directly by contacting a member institution of the Brazilian securities distribution system, or indirectly through the intermediation of an institution in the securities distribution system of the investor's country. The Brazilian intermediary institution through which the foreign investor trades repre- sents the investor vis-a-vis the Brazilian authorities with respect to the operational, exchange, and tax aspects, and in providing information on the operations executed. These investments may be made in U.S. dollars, in the currency of the country of origin of the investment, or in reais. Operations involving the repatriation of capital are ex- empt from income tax withholding. Earnings from variable-income investments are subject to 10% income tax withholding and those from fixed-income investments to 15% income tax withholding. Capital gains are subject to income tax at a rate of 10%. The sale of shares of foreign enterprises in Brazil is regulated essentially for the MERCOSUR environment through share custody certificates or directly. There is no regulation in force allowing the sale of other foreign securities in the country. Inward and outward remittances associated with investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in the floating exchange rate market. There are no limits, authorizations, or hold periods for the investments. Brazilian natural and juridical persons may make investments through the purchase on Brazilian stock exchanges of custody certificates representing shares issued by compa- nies headquartered in signatory countries of the Treaty of Asuncion (MERCOSUR). These securities may be purchased through foreign investment funds or through direct equity investments in enterprises abroad. In addition to the rules already mentioned governing the purchase of shares on stock exchanges by residents and the specific regulations for MERCOSUR, collective in- vestments can be made through Brazilian investment companies and funds. Issues of securities abroad by residents are accorded the same treatment as direct ex- ternal borrowing operations. Thus, exchange contracts involving the entry of foreign currencies must be authorized in advance by the CBB. Funds transfers associated with issues of securities abroad are subject to the conditions of the respective certificates of registration issued by the CBB, these conditions are set forth in the contract between the debtor and the creditor. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments No. On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Portfolio investment by foreign investors in fixed-income instruments is restricted to two classes of fixed-income funds: the fixed-income funds that are subject to a transac- tion tax of 7% and the privatization funds that are subject to a transaction tax of 5% as of February 8, 1996. The regulated forms of collective investment by nonresidents in local shares are the investment companies, funds, and diversified stock portfolios. For collective invest- ments in other securities, the forms provided for in the regulations are the foreign capital fixed-income funds, privatization funds, real estate investment funds, and as of February 8, 1996, emerging enterprises investment funds. Their establishment, as well as changes in their by-laws, must be authorized in advance by the CVM, except for the foreign capital fixed-income funds. The constitution of those funds must be notified in writing to the CBB within a maximum of five days. The CBB may determine changes in the regulations of the fixed-income funds. Funds entering the country are subject to registration with the CBB for purposes of controlling foreign capital and future remit- tances abroad of cash dividends or bonuses and capital gains realized in the sale of the company's shares. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents BRAZIL 29 Inward and outward remittances associated with investments must be processed through banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, with guaranteed access to the free exchange rate market to purchase foreign currency. Foreign investment funds are organized in the form of open-end mutual funds. Partici- pation is limited exclusively to natural and juridical persons and to funds and other collective investment entities resident, domiciled, or headquartered in Brazil. Foreign investment funds may be managed by a multipurpose bank, commercial bank, invest- ment bank, brokerage firm, or securities distributor, under the supervision and direct responsibility of the manager of the institution. A minimum of 60% of the fund's investments must be in securities representative of the federal government's external debt and a maximum of 40% in other securities traded in the international market. These securities must be kept abroad in a custodian account in the fund's name. The fund is authorized to conduct operations in organized deriva- tives markets abroad solely for the purpose of hedging the securities making up the respective portfolio. Inward and outward transfers of resources through foreign investment funds are subject to registration with the CBB for purposes of monitoring and controlling Brazilian in- vestment, as well as the respective income, investment repatriation, and capital gains. Transfers are processed in foreign currency through the free exchange rate market. Earnings from the redemption of shares of foreign investment funds are subject to a 15% income tax rate to be withheld by the management institution of the foreign in- vestment funds on the date of the redemption payment or credit and paid within three working days of the two-week period following the occurrence of the taxable event. Foreign capital fixed-income funds may conduct operations in organized derivatives markets in the country, including futures operations carried out in markets managed by stock exchanges or commodities and futures exchanges. The resources of investors from MERCOSUR-treaty countries may be invested in the domestic options and futures market. The use of funds entering the country for the purchase of fixed-income securi- ties and in operations carried out in derivatives markets is prohibited. There are no restrictions on investments in derivatives operations in Brazil by recipients of direct investments. Private sector entities may engage in hedging operations with financial institutions or stock exchanges abroad to protect themselves against the risk of variations in interest rates, exchange rates, and commodities prices. The costs of such operations must con- form to the parameters in force in the international market. The CBB may, at its sole discretion, require foreign exchange compensation sufficient to eliminate the effects of operations not in line with the established objective or executed outside those parame- ters, without prejudice to other sanctions that may apply. Payments and receipts in foreign currency, scheduled or expected to occur in the future in connection with com- mercial or financial rights or obligations, may also be protected by hedging. Hedging operations, however, are limited, at any time: (1) in interest rate and currency swaps, to the amount of the underlying commercial or financial rights and obligations remaining in foreign currency; and (2) in commodities swaps, open positions are limited to the physical volume of the commodity to be exported, imported, or traded in the domestic market. Only two forms of credits are permitted under (1) the Exporting Financing Program (PROEX), which is financed with national budget funds. PROEX resources may not be used to establish any facility for foreign public or private entities, insofar as financing is granted on a case-by-case basis, as credit may not be made available to nonresidents for use in several portions spread over a period of time; and (2) the Machinery and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 30 BRAZIL Equipment Export Financing Program (FINAMEX), which is operated through agent banks by the Special Industrial Financing Agency (FINAME). It provides funds so that financial institutions (FINAME agents) can grant loans to national exporters at rates and on terms similar to those available to their foreign competitors. To residents from nonresidents Commercial credits with terms in excess of 360 days must be authorized by and regis- tered with the FIRCE of the CBB. Prepayment of exports must be authorized by the CBB prior to the entry of the foreign exchange into Brazil. Operations governed by these regulations have a 361-day mini- mum term and are exempt from income tax and from the tax on credit, exchange, in- surance, and securities operations. The CBB authorizes and registers external financing for imports of capital goods, intermediate goods, raw materials, and other goods and merchandise, regardless of the type of importer or destination of the merchandise if the operations have a term of at least one year. hi private sector import operations without the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a public sector entity, the financing terms—interest rate, spread, downpayment—are freely contracted by the parties. In the case of a public sector entity and in cases involv- ing the direct or indirect surety or guarantee of a public sector entity, interest rates may not exceed the LIBOR rate for the reference period plus specified maximum spreads. Requests for authorization may be approved by the CBB, as there is no legal impedi- ment to doing so. The proceeds of financial credits granted to residents must be kept within the country, and the resources must be used for investment in economic activities. Exchange con- tracts involving the entry of foreign exchange in connection with the borrowing are subject to prior approval by the CBB. Remittances of loan, credit, or financing interest in excess of the interest rate indicated in the respective contract and registration are considered as principal payments. A 15% income tax rate is levied on remittances of interest and other income associated with foreign loan operations, except when bilateral agreements to avoid dual taxation spec- ify another rate or when the borrower or lender is tax exempt. The tax on credit, ex- change, insurance operations, and securities operations is calculated on the equivalent in reais of foreign currency entering the country as a foreign loan. The federal government, states, municipalities, the federal district, and their founda- tions and agencies, as well as operations in which the payers abroad are multilateral organizations and foreign government agencies are exempted. Guarantees by nonfmancial juridical persons in credit operations for their foreign sub- sidiaries are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. Exchange operations involving financial transfers abroad in execution of the bank sureties and guarantees in question are carried out exclusively through the floating exchange rate market when such guarantees relate or are linked to: (1) imports and other foreign currency operations not covered by certificates issued by the CBB or by a facility; (2) repatriation of amounts entering the country as advance payment for ex- ports in the event of nonshipment of goods. Exchange operations involving financial transfers associated with the execution of payment guarantees for imports, loans, or external financing covered by certificates of authorization or registration issued by the CBB are processed through the free ex- change rate market. There are no restrictions on guarantees provided by nonresidents to residents in con- nection with foreign capital registered with the CBB, subject to the presentation of a formal statement by the foreign entity furnishing the guarantee. Data concerning the Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on d irect investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment BRAZIL 31 guarantee and the costs incurred in obtaining it are included in the certificate of authorization or registration of the guaranteed operation. If costs are incurred in obtain- ing the guarantee, the credit operation must be authorized in advance by the CBB. There are no specific regulations governing other operations. In the event of the execu- tion of a guarantee, the beneficiary must arrange for the entry of the corresponding foreign exchange directly through the banking system. Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations may transfer up to US$5 mil- lion per financial group, including all remittances in the last 12 months and are basi- cally required to keep on f i le and make available to the CBB the documents mentioned in said regulations. Transfers exceeding the established limit must be submitted to the CBB no less than 30 days in advance of the exchange contract and, regardless of the amount, exchange operations in which the purchaser of the foreign exchange is an en- tity belonging to the direct or indirect public administration are subject to prior authorization by the CBB. In this case, remittances must be processed through the free exchange rate market. Brazilian enterprises may invest in financial institutions abroad on the floating ex- change rate market (MCTF). However, such investments by nonfmancial enterprises require prior approval of the CBB and must meet some specified conditions: invest- ments abroad by institutions authorized to operate by the CBB must obtain the prior opinion of the CBB and the Department of Financial System Organization and satisfy, especially with respect to paid-up capital, net assets, time in operation, fixed-asset ratio, and borrowing ceilings. Applications for the registration of foreign direct investment and technology are not subject to prior authorization, except for foreign investments via the contribution of goods. Investments in commercial banks are limited to 30% of the voting capital, if there are restrictions on the operations of Brazilian banks in the markets where their main offices are located. The establishment in Brazil of new branches of financial insti- tutions domiciled abroad is prohibited. Also, any increase in the percentage of equity participation in financial institutions headquartered in Brazil by natural or juridical persons resident or domiciled abroad is prohibited, except for authorizations resulting from international agreements or reciprocity arrangements, or in the interest of the Brazilian government as expressed by presidential decree. In the case of highway freight transportation, except for companies established before July 11, 1980 to which different rules apply, there are limitations on equity participa- tion of up to one-fifth of the voting capital stock. In future capital increases by sub- scription, however, such entities are required to pay up to four-fifths of said increases in ordinary registered shares through national underwriters. Foreign participation in journalistic and radio and television broadcasting enterprises is prohibited, and direct or indirect equity participation by foreign enterprises or capital in the health care sector in Brazil is also prohibited, except in special cases. The registration of foreign investment through the verification of patent or trademark rights as a means of paying in capital is subject to prior recording of the deed of trans- fer or assignment of the rights to use the patent or trademark with the National Institute of Industrial Property and is limited to the value stated in the latter. The investment is registered in the currency of the country where the beneficiary is domiciled or head- quartered and must be requested from the CBB by the party receiving the investment. Foreign investments via the contribution of goods without exchange cover are subject to prior authorization by the CBB and the SECEX. The goods, machinery, or equip- ment must be used in the production of goods or the provision of services, must have a useful life of more than five years, and must be part of the enterprise's assets for at least five years. Investments through currency transfers are not subject to prior authorization. This type of investment may take place through the free exchange rate market to pay up the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 32 BRAZIL subscribed capital of enterprises already operating in Brazil, to organize a new enter- prise, or to acquire an interest in an existing Brazilian enterprise. Branches of foreign companies may be opened, subject to the prior issuance of an authorizing decree by the president of the Republic. A branch is understood to be an office of a foreign enterprise. Enterprises established in Brazil with any degree of for- eign equity participation are not covered by this restriction. The entry of resources and outward remittances associated with the investment shall be processed through a banking institution authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of d irect investment Yes. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit in s t i tu t ions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Transfers for the purchase of residential or commercial real estate abroad may be made through the floating exchange rate market. Purchase of real estate in Brazil is not restricted. Foreign investments in the capital of Brazilian enterprises (including resources to be used for investment in the capital of real estate enterprises) by parties resident, domiciled, or headquartered abroad is un- restricted and not subject to prior authorization by the CBB. The exchange occurs on the free exchange rate market. Foreign borrowing for terms exceeding 360 days is subject to authorization and regis- tration with the CBB. The CBB requires that banks authorized to conduct foreign ex- change operations obtain facilities abroad for terms of up to 360 days to extend com- mercial credit in Brazil. The National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES), private invest- ment or development banks, commercial banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations, and multipurpose banks with a commercial portfolio (if authorized to con- duct foreign exchange operations and holding an investment or development portfolio) are permitted to contract loans abroad to be onlent to enterprises in Brazil by issuing commercial paper. They may also borrow abroad by issuing floating rate notes, fixed rate notes, floating rate certificates of deposit, fixed rate certificates of deposit, gov- ernment bonds, and private bonds. Financial institutions in the National Rural Credit System may borrow abroad to fi- nance costs, investment, or the marketing of agricultural and livestock production. Banks may raise funds abroad to be onlent to natural or juridical persons to finance the construction or purchase of new real estate. Banks authorized to conduct foreign ex- change operations may use facilities contracted for terms exceeding 360 days with banks abroad to finance imports by resident enterprises. There are no legal provisions authorizing banks or credit institutions headquartered in Brazil to grant financial loans to nonresidents or to purchase securities issued abroad for terms exceeding 360 days. This restriction does not apply to the foreign branches of Brazilian banks. All contracts, securities, or other documents, as well as any obligations executable in Brazil that require payment in foreign currency are null and void. Consequently, banks are prohibited from granting foreign currency loans within Brazil. However, this re- striction does not apply to the onlending of external foreign currency loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions spec if ic to in s t i tu t ion al investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad BRAZIL 33 Limits differ according to the exchange market in which the transactions take place as follows: (1) Banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange operations in the free ex- change rate market may hold long positions of up to US$5 million, including all cur- rencies and all of each bank's branches. Amounts exceeding this ceiling must be de- posited with the CBB in U.S. dollars. The ceiling on banks' short exchange position is contingent upon each bank's adjusted net worth. (2) On the floating exchange rate market, the following ceilings have been set: (a) For licensed banks, the long exchange position is US$1 million (any amount in excess of this ceiling must be deposited with the CBB), and the short exchange posi- tion is contingent on the institution's adjusted net worth; (b) For licensed dealers (brokerage firms, securities distributors, and credit, financing, and investment enterprises), the ceiling on long exchange position is US$500,000, and no short exchange position is allowed; (c) Licensed tourism agencies do not maintain exchange positions, but they are re- quired to observe the daily operational ceiling (cash) of US$200,000; any surpluses must be sold to licensed banks or dealers; and (d) Providers of tourist accommodations may have cash holdings in foreign currencies of up to US$50,000 to meet their operational needs; any surpluses must be sold to li- censed banks or dealers. The institutional investors may invest up to 10% of their technical reserves in invest- ment fund shares abroad. Private social security agencies may also invest up to 50% of their reserves (together with other investments up to the same ceiling) in shares of open companies, publicly issued convertible debentures, bonds for subscribing to shares issued by open companies, and certificates of deposit for shares issued by companies headquartered in countries signatory to the Treaty of Asuncion (MERCOSUR). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: March 25, 1952. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Canada is the Canadian dollar. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Canadian dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand; however, the authorities intervene from time to time to maintain orderly conditions in the market. Exchange tax Exchange sub s idy No. No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange rates are freely determined in the exchange market. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Adm in i s t ra t ion of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. There are no exchange controls. The licensing of imports and exports, when required, is handled mostly by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, but other departments also issue licenses in specialized fields. Canada notified the IMF on July 23, 1992 that in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). hi accordance with UN sanctions Canada imposed restrictions on financial transactions with Bosnia and Herzegovina in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 942. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Reexports of gold of U.S. origin to all countries except the United States require a permit. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Resident Accounts 35 E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Accounts in domestic currency convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget F inanc ing requirements for imports Documentation requ irements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Certain assets connected to Iraq, Libya, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) are frozen, pursuant to resolutions of the UN Security Council. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import permits are required for only a few agricultural items, certain textile products and clothing, certain endangered species of fauna and flora, natural gas, and material and equipment for the production or use of atomic energy, hi 1995, permits were re- quired for the importation of controlled substances classified as dangerous drugs and certain military armaments, hi addition, Health Canada does not permit the importation of drugs not registered with it. Commercial imports of used motor vehicles (less than 15 years old) have been generally prohibited. However, the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from the United States was phased out over a five-year period that began in 1989, and the prohibition on imports of used vehicles from Mexico will be phased out by January 1 ,2019. Yes. Imports of some clothing and certain textile products, usually in the form of bilateral restraint agreements (Memoranda of Understanding) concluded under the Multifiber Arrangement negotiated within the framework of the GATT, are also subject to quanti- tative restrictions, hi accordance with the provisions of the Uruguay Round Agreement on textiles and clothing, Canada's system of import controls on textiles and clothing is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 36 CANADA being liberalized in stages over a ten-year period beginning January 1, 1995. As a re- sult of the commitments made under the Uruguay Round Agreement, Canada has agreed to replace all agricultural import restrictions with tariff rate quotas and to en- sure import access levels as negotiated in the Uruguay Round (or under the Canada - U.S. Free Trade Agreement). These changes became effective on either January 1, 1995 or August 1, 1995 depending on the product. Measures consistent with international trade obligations (e.g., antidumping, counter- vailing duties, and safeguard provisions) are maintained. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs No. State import monopoly Certain monopolies exist at the subfederal level. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas No. No. No. No. The principal legal instrument governing export controls is the Export and Import Permits Act, which controls trade through the Export Control List and Area Control List. The Export Control List identifies all goods that are controlled in order to imple- ment intergovernmental arrangements, maintain supplies, or ensure security. It in- cludes all items identified in the International Munitions List, the International Indus- trial List, and the International Atomic Energy List. In addition, controls are main- tained for supply reasons and for purposes of promoting further processing in Canada (e.g., logs, herring roe) and for nonproliferation purposes (chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons and their delivery systems). The Area Control List includes a limited number of countries to which all exports are controlled. At present, the following countries are on the Area Control List: Angola and Libya. Permits are required for the exportation of listed goods to all countries except, in most cases, the United States as well as for all goods destined to countries on the Area Control List. Export taxes No. Payments for Inv is ib le Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money market instruments No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment CANADA 37 No. No. Specific restrictions exist on inward direct investments in the broadcasting, telecom- munications, transportation, fishery, and energy sectors. In addition, under the provi- sion of the Investment Canada Act, new foreign investments are in general subject to notification requirements but not to review requirements. As a result of the NAFTA, only direct acquisitions of businesses with assets exceeding Can$168 million are sub- ject to review beginning in 1996. Indirect acquisitions are no longer subject to review. These provisions were multilateralized as part of Canada's implementation of the Uru- guay Round results. Investments subject to review are required only to pass a test proving that they will yield a net benefit to Canada. In addition, acquisitions below these thresholds and investments to establish new businesses in culturally sensitive sectors may be reviewed. The establishment of a new business, the direct acquisition of a business with assets of less than Can$168 million (1996 dollars, adjusted for nominal growth in GDP for sub- sequent years), and the indirect acquisition of a business by investors from WTO mem- bers are not subject to review and need only be notified, except in cases when the Ca- nadian business represents 50% or more of the value of the total assets acquired in the international acquisition. (The acquisition of a Canadian enterprise may be considered "direct" where it involves the acquisition of control of a corporation carrying on a Ca- nadian business and "indirect" where it involves the transfer of control of a non- Canadian corporation which then controls a Canadian corporation carrying on a Cana- dian business.) The direct acquisition of a business whose assets exceed the above-mentioned limit is reviewed and assessed according to its net benefit to Canada, authorization being gen- erally granted. All acquisitions or investments to establish a new business in cultural sectors such as book publishing, sound recording, and film are normally subject to review. Reviewable cases must be resolved within 75 days, unless the investor agrees to a longer time period. In practice, most cases are resolved within 45 days. Different thresholds apply in the case of investments made by non-WTO investors. The direct acquisition of a business with assets greater than Can$5 million and the indirect acquisition of a business with assets greater than Can$5 million to Can$50 million which represent more than 50% of the value of the total international transaction in question can be reviewed. These limits also apply to investments made by investors from WTO members in any financial service, transportation service, and production of uranium. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions spec if ic to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securi- ties laws No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position as of April 30, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Art ic le VIII Date of acceptance: July 27, 1977. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Dual C lass if icat ion Adjusted according to a set of indicators Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Exchange Arrangement The currency of Chile is the Chilean peso. No. There are two foreign exchange markets: the official, through which debt-service pay- ments, remittances of dividends and profits, and authorized capital transactions includ- ing loan receipts are transacted, and the informal market through which all other trans- actions, including loan payments, take place. The official foreign exchange market consists of commercial banks and exchange houses and other entities licensed by the Central Bank of Chile (CBC). hi both exchange markets, economic agents are free to negotiate rates; the CBC con- ducts transactions in the official exchange market within margins of 10% around the reference rate. The exchange rate of the Chilean peso is adjusted daily on the basis of changes in the value resulting from a formula relating the currencies (0.45 U.S. dollars + 0.46 deutsche marks + 24.6825 Japanese yen) and in the differential between do- mestic and foreign rates of inflation, adjusted for the estimated differential in produc- t iv i ty growth. No. The CBC provides a subsidy (in the form of notes indexed to inflation with a minimum maturity of six years and an interest rate of 3%) on the following service payments on some debts contracted before August 6, 1982 (the original amount of the debt was about US$8 billion): (1) Payments to Chilean banks or financial companies whose debt is indexed to the official exchange rate; and (2) Payments abroad on debt obligations registered with the CBC. As of the end of 1995, only debtors whose obligations were equal to or less than US$50,000 on June 30, 1985 have had access to the subsidy, but many of the affected debtors are bankrupt and unable to claim the subsidy. On December 31, 1995, the subsidized rate was the official reference rate. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements No. B i la teral payments arrangements No. 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 39 Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Settlements with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Malaysia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the CBC and the central banks of each of the countries concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of theLAIA. The CBC is responsible for enacting regulations to obtain balance of payments infor- mation. The Chilean Copper Commission is responsible for advising the CBC with respect to exports of copper and subproducts. International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Monetary gold may be traded only by authorized dealers, but ordinary transactions in gold between private individuals are unrestricted. Controls on external trade Trade is unrestricted, subject to normal export and import formalities, including regis- tration with the CBC. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Yes. Both natural and juridical persons can hold foreign currency checking accounts within the national financial system. The average balance is subject to legal reserve require- ments. Juridical persons must take into account legal restrictions on investments, given their commercial activities (i.e., pension fund administrators). In the case of checking ac- counts, commercial banks must certify the domicile reported. Yes. Juridical persons subject to foreign investment regulations (i.e., banks and pension funds) must abide by such regulations. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Checking accounts cannot be held by nonresidents because a domicile in the country is required for holders. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 40 CHILE Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Payment through the official foreign exchange market requires a document (Informe de Importation) issued by the CBC, which must be obtained from and processed through the intermediary of a local commercial bank. Access to foreign exchange is available no later than 30 days after the obligation's expiration date as documented on the Informe de Importation. Domiciliation requirements Only resident natural or juridical persons may engage in imports. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tar i f fs Most imports require a document (Informe de Importation) issued by the CBC. Imports of used motor vehicles are prohibited. Imports of wheat, maize, edible oil, and sugar are subject to after-duty price margin limits. Antidumping and countervailing duty laws are applied. Imports are subject to a uniform 11% tariff rate with a few exceptions (including on goods from LAIA countries and under a number of bilateral trade agreements). Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Domiciliation Other Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Exports and Export Proceeds Windfall receipts from copper exports of CODELCO (state copper company) must be deposited in a special foreign currency account at the CBC; withdrawals are permitted only under prescribed circumstances. No. Exports can be financed with advances from the foreign buyer, or with external or in- ternal credit, as agreed between the trading parties. Yes. The exporter must submit an export report to the CBC through a banking company establishing the exporter's identity and the terms of the operation. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Commissions No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Interest payments Profit/dividends Prior approval Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona Jide test Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits CHILE 41 No. Profits and dividends on foreign direct investments require prior approval by the CBC. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from selected transactions (e.g., royalties and copyright fees, commissions, proceeds from insurance, and other benefits related to foreign trade) are subject to a 100% surrender requirement. Capital Transactions Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Nonresidents can invest in domestic securities in the country in three ways: (1) Acquisition by Foreign Investment Funds (FICEs). These are formed by foreign capital and administered by an open society established in Chile. Investments cannot exceed 5% of social capital in one company and 10% of the funds' total assets. FICEs cannot invest more than 40% of their portfolio in equities of the same holding period, and all FICEs as a group may not hold more than 25% of the equities of the same open society. Other requirements for FICEs are a five-year minimum holding period, a profit tax of 10%, and some portfolio restrictions that vary with the duration of holding period; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 42 CHILE (2) Through a financial investment (purchase of fixed-income securities and equities). These are, however, subject to a reserve requirement of 30% for one year, a minimum holding period requirement of one year, and to the general income tax law. Equities that have American Depository Receipts (ADRs) can be acquired in the country and converted into ADRs through the mechanism established under Chapter XXVI of the Compendium of International Exchange Rules (CEIR). These transactions are also subject to the 30% reserve requirement. The issuance of primary ADRs is an exception to the above restrictions, but the issuers are subject to minimum international rating requirements, and there is a minimum amount to be issued; and (3) Loans can also be used to finance the purchase of securities in the country. They are subject to a one-year reserve requirement of 30%, a 4% tax on interest payments, and a 1.2% stamp tax. Proceeds from the sale of domestic securities by nonresidents are subject to the one- year holding period requirement, if the capital inflow entered as a financial investment. The sale of equities that are the property of foreigners due to the ADR mechanism is possible, since Chilean ADRs can be converted into domestic stock. However, the re- sources obtained through the sale must be repatriated. ADRs issued from equities di- rectly acquired in the Chilean stock market (also called secondary ADRs) are tightly restricted, both for the authorized period for acquiring stocks domestically and for the authorized period for acquiring foreign exchange after a local stock sale. All the asso- ciated foreign exchange operations must be done through the formal exchange market. Issuance of foreign securities by nonresidents is subject to the same procedures for domestic securities. In practice, no foreign securities are traded domestically, and there is national treatment for foreigners that issue securities of companies established in Chile. Once the respective taxes have been paid, profits may be transferred freely with- out delay. Except for banks and pension funds, there are no restrictions on the acquisition of in- ternational fixed-income assets and current account deposits. The acquisition of the associated foreign exchange must be done in the informal market. Pension funds are authorized to hold up to 9% of their funds in foreign assets, including a variety of fixed-income assets and company shares up to 4.5% of the fund. Life insurance com- panies are limited up to 10% of their technical reserves and risk net worth. For mutual funds, the limit is 30% of the fund. Residents can issue equities and bonds abroad, and the associated foreign exchange operations must be done through the formal exchange market. Equities can be sold according to the rules of Chapter XXVI of the CEIR that regulates capital inflows through the mechanism of ADRs. Primary ADR issues are only subject to minimum amounts (US$25 million the first time, and thereafter to a minimum of US$10 million) and two minimum international risk rating requirements for long-term debt of BBB+ for banks and BBB for other firms. In general, money market instrument acquisitions are authorized for nonresidents, but there are regulations governing the mode of inflow. The associated capital inflows liq- uidation and the subsequent repatriation associated with the sale of the asset must be made through the formal exchange market. Acquisitions through external loans are subject to a reserve requirement of 30%, a 4% tax on interest, and a stamp tax of 1.2%. Acquisition through a FICE is subject to a minimum holding period of five years in addition to a 10% profit tax. In the case of financial investments, there is a 30% one- year reserve requirement and a minimum holding period of one year, and they are sub- ject to the general income tax law. The issue or sale of foreign money market instruments in the country is not authorized, and neither is the promotion of these or other financial services from abroad. To operate in the domestic financial market, the company must be registered, installed, and must have brought capital for operational purposes. The legal mechanism used is through the creation in Chile of an agency of the foreign corporation. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 43 Purchase abroad by residents The acquisition of money market instruments by individuals and nonfinancial compa- nies is not restricted. However, the formal exchange market is not available for these operations. Sale or issue abroad by residents These are subject to a reserve requirement of 30%. On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents These are considered financial investments subject to a reserve requirement of 30% for a year and a minimum holding period of one year. Funds that enter Chile through a FICE are subject to a minimum holding period of five years. Nonresidents are not permitted to market these or other financial services from abroad. To operate in the domestic financial market, the company must be registered, estab- lished, and must have brought in capital for operational purposes. Once this has oc- curred, the sales of collective instrument securities are subject to the same domestic rules as any other investment, with no restrictions on the repatriation of profits. There are no restrictions for nonfinancial agents, but there is no access to the formal exchange market for these purposes. Mutual funds are limited to 30% of their portfolio in foreign financial instruments. Pension funds are also restricted by the type of fund (mainly to avoid leveraged and hedged funds), country risk, regulation, liquidity, expe- rience of the fund, and participant's concentration. Investments must remain within limited amounts (up to 2% by issuer and up to 4.5% of the pension fund in variable income assets). In practice, Chilean mutual funds (open funds) and investment funds (closed funds) are not offered directly abroad. To operate abroad, such funds must fu l f i ll the existing regulations of the foreign country. Domestically issued instruments can be sold to non- residents but funds must be repatriated. These inflows are considered a financial in- vestment subject to a reserve requirement of 30% annually and a one-year holding re- quirement. FICEs that come into Chile under foreign ownership may be sold and traded in the New York or the London stock exchange. The capital committed by FICEs must remain invested in Chile for five years. Controls on der ivat ives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents The market is not well developed. Nonresidents cannot participate in the local market for currency derivatives. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents To operate, foreign agents must have resident status. Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents The CBC regulates currency and interest rate derivatives taking place in foreign mar- kets. Interest rate derivatives do not exist in the local market and are not regulated. Speculative positions with derivatives abroad can be taken by nonfinancial institutions acquiring the foreign exchange in the informal market. Banks can cover themselves in currency derivatives up to the level of the underlying asset or liability that needs to be covered. In the case of interest rate derivatives, banks are only allowed to cover mis- matches between assets and liabilities. Pension funds and insurance companies are only allowed to cover themselves against currency volatility up to a maximum of their foreign financial investments, on a currency-by-currency basis. Derivatives for currency and interest rates exist for operations with foreign agents in over-the-counter operations, or with securities dealers or brokers that are authorized by the foreign authorities or with foreign banks, if preferred. There is access to formal spot exchange markets for hedging purposes. Currency and interest rate options are allowed except for banks. Other derivatives contracts (interest rates, currencies, and commodity prices) are permitted for residents including banks up to the amount of the underlying external asset or liability position that needs to be covered. However, these contracts cannot be done on the formal market, except for banks and institutional investors. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 44 CHILE Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents All types of nonfinancial agents (except pension funds and insurance companies) are allowed to do international trade lending, but these operations must be done through the informal exchange market. Commercial credits can be contracted with foreign banks and financial entities under a 30% reserve requirement charged on an average balance and subject to 4% tax on in- terest. Export advances and direct supplier credits to importers are exempted from the reserve requirement. Associated foreign exchange transactions must be made through the formal exchange market. Operations by insurance companies, pension funds, and institutional investors are re- stricted. Others must operate through the informal market. To residents from nonresidents Financial credits can be contracted with foreign banks and financial entities, subject to a one-year 30% reserve requirement, a 4% tax on interest, and a stamp tax of 1.2%. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Except banks, which have to be authorized by the CBC. Only the following operations can be guaranteed or backed up by banks: external credits received by domestic enter- prises, financial credits, the issuance of documents abroad, and forward contracts with authorized agents abroad. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Restrictions exist in the case of ownership in a foreign company, investments in a proj- ect, or establishment of a company abroad. Investments may take place in two ways: (1) Through the formal market in which case the CBC grants approval but is subject to a 120-day profit repatriation period while avoiding double taxation; or (2) Through the informal exchange market where the CBC must only be informed. There are also some limitations on the purchase of equities and foreign direct invest- ment through the formal exchange market, in which case the CBC gives the authoriza- tion to proceed, depending upon the provision of some specific information about the investment. There is a maximum allowed repatriation period for profits of 120 days. There is also a diversification requirement that allows a maximum investment in subsidiaries and branches in one foreign country of 20% of the capital and reserves of a local bank. In- vestment abroad in foreign subsidiaries and branches must be deducted from the local capital base. Investments by commercial banks are limited to 25% of each bank's capi- tal and reserves, and restricted to bills and bonds issued or guaranteed by foreign gov- ernments or central banks and private enterprises with a minimum long-term interna- tional debt risk rating (and its equivalent for short-term debt) of BBB instruments; and pension funds and insurance companies are subject to minimum long-term international debt risk ratings of BBB. Capital contributions to new establishments or shares in existing ones are subject to a one-year minimum holding period and a minimum amount of US$10,000. Projects of significant size may be undertaken through Decree Law 600 (DL600) where there is a minimum holding period of one year. In this case, the investor enjoys a favorable taxa- tion treatment with regard to the choice between the general law of income tax or the guaranteed payment profit tax of 42%. There is also a guaranteed access to the formal exchange market for repatriation. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE 45 Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Investments must be held in Chile for at least one year to qualify for repatriation. After that period, it must be demonstrated that the asset was sold and applicable taxes paid. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Only insurance companies are restricted and can invest only 3% of reserves and risk net worth. Others remain free but must operate through the informal market. Direct purchase of real estate is treated as a financial investment and is subject to Chapter XIV of the CEIR that imposes a minimum investment of US$10,000, a reserve requirement of 30%, and a minimum holding period of one year. The investment must be held for one year in Chile. After that period, it must be dem- onstrated that the asset was sold and applicable taxes paid. Banks are permitted to use foreign trade credits, but these are subject to a reserve re- quirement of 30% against the average balance. They may also obtain financial credits, according to Chapter XTV of the CEIR, with a reserve requirement of 30% for a year. Nonbank financial institutions are restricted. For banks, foreign time deposits must be within the margin for financial investment abroad, while external current accounts are not restricted. Banks are only allowed to grant loans related to foreign trade. However, they can pur- chase debt instruments and sovereign bonds issued abroad. Time deposits are consid- ered part of the margin for financial investments. Banks satisfying a capital adequacy ratio of at least 10% may acquire stocks of foreign banks or establish branches abroad. Deposits, loans, and other assets of Chilean banks with foreign banks having Chilean bank ownership cannot exceed 25% of the capital and reserves of the foreign bank. Banks are only permitted to grant foreign exchange credits associated with foreign trade. However, they may grant loans or acquire securities denominated or expressed in foreign exchange provided they remain within the open position limits. There are no restrictions, but they are subject to open position limits. Reserve requirements Yes. Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits There are different reserve requirements for foreign currency deposits (time and current account deposits) and domestic currency time deposits. The requirement is 30% in the case of foreign currency deposits and 9% in the case of domestic currency time deposits. By law there are ceilings on interest rates on both domestic and foreign currency loans. Those ceilings are defined as 1.5 times the average market interest rate. Foreign financial investments by commercial banks are limited to 25% of each bank's capital and reserves, and restricted to bills and bonds issued or guaranteed by foreign governments or central banks and private enterprises. The general minimum long-term international debt risk rating (and its equivalent for short-term debt) for the financial instruments is BBB- and up to 30% of the 25% margin can be invested in BB- instmments. The acquisition of foreign exchange in order to invest abroad must be through the formal exchange market. The net position of foreign currency assets for banks cannot exceed 20% of capital and reserves. This margin includes derivative and spot instruments, foreign investment, and assets and liabilities issued abroad or denominated in foreign exchange. Addi- tionally, there is a foreign financial investment ceiling of 25% of capital and reserves of each bank, a maximum investment in subsidiaries and branches abroad of 20% of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 46 CHILE Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad capital and reserves of the domestic bank, and a requirement that the balances of all acquisitions and sales of foreign exchange for a bank be positive. The type of foreign instruments that can be held by pension funds and insurance com- panies is restricted by a minimum international long-term risk rating requirement of BBB. Investors in these instruments may also acquire foreign instruments guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury, such as Brady bonds. Acquisition of equities and variable income assets by pension funds is restricted to instruments in some international markets. Specifically, there are regulations on the transparency, regulation, and information of the stock exchange where these instruments can be acquired. However, for insurance companies, the possible stock exchange options are wider; insurance companies can invest in markets where there is a daily average of at least US$10 million of equity transactions. Pension funds may invest up to 9% of their resources abroad. Life insurance companies may invest their technical reserves and their risk net worth with global limits of up to 10% in financial investments and 3% in real estate. The limits for general insurance companies differ from the life insurance companies only in the case of financial in- vestment abroad. The limit in that case is 15%. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Position as of April 30, 1996, unless otherwise stated) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: December 1, 1996. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of the People's Republic of China is the renminbi (RMB). The currency unit is the yuan (100 fen = Yl and 10 fen = 1 jiao). No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the renminbi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange mar- ket. The People's Bank of China (PBC) announces a reference rate for the renminbi against the U.S. dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, and the Japanese yen based on the weighted average price of foreign exchange transactions during the previous day's trad- ing. Daily movement of the exchange rate of the renminbi against the U.S. dollar is lim- ited to 0.3% on either side of the reference rate as announced by the PBC. The exchange rate of the renminbi against the Hong Kong dollar and the Japanese yen is limited to 1% on either side of the reference rate. The rates of the renminbi against other currencies should not exceed 0.5%. The selling price for cash transactions is the same as the buy- ing price for cash transactions for all quoted currencies. The buying price for cash should not exceed 2.5% of its spot rate. The Shanghai-based China Foreign Exchange Trading System is a nationally integrated electronic system for interbank foreign exchange trading. At present, it is electronically linked with 25 foreign exchange trading centers located in major cities. All foreign ex- change transactions are conducted through the system. Financial institutions involved in foreign exchange transactions must become members of China's Foreign Exchange Trading System. Exchange tax Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts The currencies used in transactions are determined by the respective contracts. China maintains arrangements with Cuba, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Russia, and Vietnam. Cash settlements with Cuba began in 1996. Other payments arrangements No. Adm in is tra t ion of control Exchange control authorities The PBC has authority over control and the State Administration of Exchange Control (SAEC) is responsible for implementing regulations. International security restrictions No. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 48 CHINA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Trading of gold and silver is restricted to pharmaceutical, industrial, and other approved users. Private persons may hold gold but not trade it. Nonresidents can buy gold, gold products, silver, and silver products but must present the invoice to export them. Unlimited amounts of gold, gold products, silver, and silver products may be imported but must be declared. Exportation requires permits. There is a limit of RMB 6,000. Travelers on official business can carry as much foreign currency as needed. Residents going abroad can carry foreign currency in cash up to the equivalent of $1,000. For amounts exceeding $1,000 approval of the SAEC is required. Banks will issue a "permit to carry foreign currency abroad" based on SAEC approval. On imports Foreign currency The import of foreign currency must be declared to customs. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical persons Resident Accounts Domestic establishments may maintain specified categories of foreign exchange ac- counts with permits issued by SAEC. Foreign-funded enterprises (FFEs) may open: (1) Foreign exchange surrender accounts for receipts and payments under the current account; and (2) Foreign exchange special use accounts for receipts and payments under the capital account with a maximum amount stipulated by the SAEC for each enterprise. Natural persons Foreign currency savings account may be opened with authorized banks. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Domestic establishments in need of foreign exchange may convert domestic currency into foreign currency at authorized banks by presenting valid proof and commercial bills. Nonresident Accounts E l ig ib i l i ty to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Yes. Persons staying in China for a short time may open foreign currency savings accounts. Foreign exchange accounts perm itted FFEs and joint ventures can maintain foreign exchange accounts and use them to make authorized payments abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA 49 Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payments requirement Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers may make advance payment of loans not exceeding $10,000 at the banks, by presenting valid proof and commercial bills. Prior SAEC approval is required for pay- ment of loans exceeding 15% of the contract amount or the equivalent of $100,000. Importers must provide valid proof and commercial bills, mainly import permits, auto- matic registration permits, proof of import, customs declarations, verification forms for foreign exchange payments, import contracts, and the like to obtain foreign exchange or pay directly from their foreign exchange accounts. Preshipment inspection All imports require inspection prior to their release by customs at the port of entry. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list All enterprises other than registered foreign trade companies (FTCs) must obtain ap- proval from the local foreign trade bureau, in accordance with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) authorization, as well as a license from the local bureau for industry and commerce, to engage in foreign trade. Imports of secondhand garments, poisons, narcotic drugs, diseased animals, and plants are prohibited, hi addition, the importation of weapons, ammunition and explosives, radio receivers and transmitters, manuscripts, printed and recorded materials, and films that are deemed to be detrimental to Chinese political, economic, cultural, and moral interests are prohibited. Licenses with quotas Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import tariff rates fall into two categories: general and preferential. Preferential rates are granted to imports from countries with which China has concluded a trade treaty or agreement. Other imports are subject to the general rate of duty. The average un- weighted tariff rate is 35.7%. China has a number of special economic zones where imports of inputs and capital goods are exempt from tariffs. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly FTCs conduct trade in specified products, including wheat, chemical fertilizers, crude oil and oil products, rubber, steel, timber, plywood, polyester fibers, tobacco and its products, cotton, and wool. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Domestic establishments must sell their export earnings to designated banks; FFEs may retain their export earnings, provided those earning do not exceed the maximum amount allowed for a foreign exchange surrender account as prescribed by the SAEC; otherwise the balance, if any, must be sold to authorized banks or sold through foreign exchange adjustment centers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 50 CHINA Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Exports of specific machine tools require a license from the SAEC for the Inspection of Import and Export Commodities for purposes of quality control. Controls in the form of registration for surveillance purposes are exercised on the importation of machinery and electric equipment in order to monitor the supply and demand situation. Quotas for 24 product items are allocated through a bidding system under which suc- cessful bidders are required to guarantee maximum export value by offering higher benchmark export prices. Export taxes Export duties are levied on 47 products. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Nontrade payments by FFEs, public enterprises or institutions, and individuals are sub- ject to different regulations. Restrictions on payments for invisible transactions and cur- rent transfers were removed upon acceptance of the obligations under Article VIE of the Articles of Agreement of the Fund. Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of transactions is required. Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of transactions is required. Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of transactions is required. Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits No. SAEC approval is required for amounts exceeding the prescribed limits (i.e., as a per- centage of f.o.b. pricing: in the case of a hidden commission, the rebate should not ex- ceed 2% of total contract amount; and in the case of a stated commission, rebate should not exceed 5% or if exceeding those percentages should be below $10,000). Traders may pay directly at authorized banks by presenting valid proof and commercial bills. Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of transactions is required. Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA 51 Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Profit/dividends Applicable taxes must be paid before remittance. Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of transactions is required. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits The foreign exchange requirements of companies within the budget are provided accord- ing to the prescribed limits. There are no restrictions on payments for travel of FFE staff. "Interim Regulations on Nontrade and Nonbusiness Foreign Exchange Utilization," published by the Ministry of Finance, imposes a limit on the amount of foreign exchange utilized by persons traveling abroad on official business. Residents traveling to Hong Kong and Macao for personal reasons may purchase up to $500 worth of foreign cur- rencies; individuals traveling to other countries or regions (including Taiwan Province of China) may purchase up to $1,000 worth of foreign currencies. Approval of the SAEC is required for amounts exceeding those limits. Yes. Yes. No. Residents may purchase foreign exchange up to $500 for payments of medicines and medical equipment abroad; for larger amounts they must submit appropriate documen- tation for SAEC's verification. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits No. Persons paying for their own studies abroad may be allowed a one-time purchase of foreign exchange of up to $1,000. Larger amounts require the approval of the SAEC. Indicative limits/bona fide test No. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof of earnings is required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 52 Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits CHINA No. Pensions, including severance and separation payments, may be converted into foreign currency up to $1,000 in a one-time purchase. For amounts exceeding this limit, SAEC approval is required. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. Indicative limits/bona fide test Proof is required. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Controls on capital and money market instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Foreign grants and financial aid received by domestic establishments and foreign ex- change earmarked for external payments as prescribed by aid contracts may be main- tained with the approval of the SAEC; foreign embassies and consulates, representative offices of international organizations and affiliates of foreign juridical persons, resident persons and foreign expatriates may retain their foreign exchange; FFEs may retain for- eign exchange earnings from current account transactions, provided the retained amount does not exceed the maximum limit allowed by the SAEC. Balances, if any, must be sold to authorized banks or through foreign exchange swap centers. Capital Transactions Nonresidents may only purchase B shares. The face value of B shares is denominated in renminbi. B shares are listed on the Chinese Securities Exchange and can only be bought by foreign investors. These transactions are not permitted. Residents, except financial institutions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing, and authorized industrial and trade enterprises or groups are not permitted to purchase se- curities abroad. A qualifications review by the SAEC is required for financial institu- tions to purchase securities abroad. Prior approval by the PBC, the SAEC, or the Securities Supervisory Board is required. Issuing bonds abroad must be integrated within the state's plan for utilizing foreign capital. Bonds can only be issued by financial institutions approved by the PBC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA 53 On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase money market instruments. Sale or issue locally by residents Nonresidents are not allowed to sell or issue money market instruments. Purchase abroad by residents Residents, except financial institutions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing, and authorized industrial and trade enterprises or groups are not allowed to purchase money market instruments. Financial institutions must undergo a review of qualifications by the SAEC before purchasing foreign money market instruments. Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad of securities, other than stocks, requires PBC and SAEC approval. On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. There are no regulations, and if these instruments are traded, they must be approved by the Securities Policy Commission. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchase of money market instruments apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for sale or issue of money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the local market by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Sale or issue by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents Operations in such instruments by financial institutions are subject to prior review of qualifications and to limits on open foreign exchange positions. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchases apply. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Industrial and commercial enterprises may not provide lending to nonresidents. Provi- sion of loans to nonresidents by financial institutions is subject to review of qualifica- tions by the SAEC and to a foreign exchange asset-liability ratio requirement. The regulation of September 1991 on External Borrowing of Commercial Credit by Do- mestic Entities stipulates that only financial institutions permitted by the SAEC to en- gage in external borrowing and authorized industrial and commercial enterprises or groups can engage in external borrowing of commercial credit. For credit of over one- year maturity, the loan must be part of the state plan for utilizing foreign capital and must be approved by the SAEC. Short-term commercial credit (with a maturity of one year or less) is subject to foreign exchange balance requirements. Financial institutions permitted to engage in foreign borrowing are free to conduct short-term foreign borrow- ing within the target balance without obtaining approval, but must register the borrow- ing with the SAEC. Short-term foreign financing with a maturity of three months or less provided to enter- prises (excluding FFEs) is not subject to limitations, but short-term financing of longer than three months is subject to short-term foreign exchange balance requirements, and the borrowing must be registered with the SAEC. FFEs may borrow from nonresidents without obtaining approval but must report the borrowing to SAEC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 54 Financial credits CHINA By residents to nonresidents Same regulations as for commercial credits apply. To residents from nonresidents Same regulations as for commercial credits apply. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The regulation on External Guarantees Provided by Domestic Entities, of September 1996, allows the provision of guarantees by financial institutions permitted to engage in providing foreign exchange guarantees and nonfmancial legal entities that have foreign exchange receipts. Government agencies or institutions cannot provide guarantees. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment According to the 1989 Regulation on Outward Direct Investment and the 1990 Imple- mentation Procedures on Outward Direct Investment, foreign exchange will be provided after a SAEC review of sources of foreign exchange assets and an assessment of the investment risk involved, approval by MOFTEC, and registration with the SAEC. As long as nonresidents meet requirements under Sino-foreign joint venture laws and other relevant regulations, and are approved by MOFTEC, they are free to invest in China. There is no restriction on the inward remittance of funds as far as exchange con- trol is concerned. In 1995, the State Planning Commission and other agencies issued Interim Regulations Guiding Foreign Investors and Directions for Foreign-Funded En- terprises. For environmental and security reasons, inward direct investment in some industries is prohibited. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for direct investment apply. Purchase locally by nonresidents Same regulations as for direct investment apply. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Same regulations as for commercial credits apply. Maintenance of accounts abroad Prior approval by the SAEC is required for domestic entities opening foreign exchange accounts abroad. Lending to nonresidents (loans, fi- nancial or commercial credits) Lending is allowed subject to review of qualifications by the SAEC and to asset-liability ratio requirements. Lending locally in foreign exchange Lending is mainly subject to a qualifications review by the SAEC and to asset-liability ratio requirements. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements China does not issue securities denominated in foreign currency. There are different reserve requirements for deposits in renminbi and in foreign curren- cies, and also between the latter in domestic banks and in FFEs (i.e., 13% for deposits in renminbi, 5% for any foreign currency deposit in domestic banks, and 3% for deposits in foreign currency for over three months and 5% for less than three months, in foreign financial institutions. Liquid asset requirements Bank foreign exchange liquid assets (one year or less) should not be less than 60% of liquid liabilities (one year or less) and 30% of total foreign exchange assets. Total ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA 55 deposits with three-month maturities, deposits in both domestic and foreign banks, funds used for purchasing transferable foreign-currency-denominated securities, deposits with the central bank, and cash holdings should not be less than 15% of total foreign exchange assets. Nonbank foreign exchange liquid assets (one year or less) should not be less than 60% of liquid liabilities (one year or less) and 25% of total assets. Total deposits with three-month maturities, deposits in both domestic and foreign banks, funds used for purchasing transferable foreign-currency-denominated securities, deposits with the central bank, and cash holdings should not be less than 10% of total assets. Bank equity investment should not exceed the difference between bank capital and mandatory paid-in capital. Nonbank financial institutions' total equity investment (excluding trust accounts) should not exceed the difference between their capital and mandatory paid-in capital. Total loans, investment guarantees (calculated as 50% of the balance guaranteed), and other foreign exchange credits provided to a legal entity by banks or nonbank financial institutions should not exceed 30% of the foreign exchange capital owned by the banks or nonbank financial institutions. For financial institutions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf, the daily total amount traded (total open foreign exchange position) should not exceed 20% of the for- eign exchange working capital. As authorized by the highest level of management, fi- nancial institutions trading foreign exchange on their own behalf may retain a small amount of overnight open position, but this should not exceed 1% of the foreign ex- change working capital. Investment regulation Credit controls Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE (Position as of June 30, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency The currency of Cote dlvoire is the CFA franc. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Exchange Arrangement Classification Pegged The CFA franc is pegged to the French franc, the intervention currency, at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 per F 0.01. Exchange rates for other currencies are derived from the rate for the currency concerned in the Paris exchange market and the fixed rate be- tween the French franc and the CFA franc. BCEAO levies no commission on transfers to or from all countries outside the WAEMU. However, banks and the postal system levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the WAEMU, which must be surrendered to the Treasury. Exchange tax No. Forward exchange market Forward exchange cover for eligible imports must not extend beyond one month for certain specified goods and three months for goods designated essential commodities with no renewal of cover possible. Forward cover against exchange rate risk is permit- ted with prior authorization from the Directorate of the Treasury, Monetary and Bank- ing Affairs in the Ministry of Economics, Finance, and Planning (MEFP), only for payments for imports of goods and only for the currency stipulated in the commercial contract. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Because Cote dlvoire is linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account, settlements with France, Monaco, and other countries linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Other payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Current payments to or from The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mauritania, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone are normally made through the West African Clearing House. Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of the Treasury, Monetary and Banking Affairs in the MEFP. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Official Yes. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 57 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization from the MEFP, which is seldom granted. The reexportation of foreign banknotes is allowed up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000; the reexportation of foreign banknotes above these ceilings requires documentation demonstrating either the importation of the foreign banknotes or their purchase against other means of payment registered in the name of the traveler or through the use of nonresident deposits lodged in local banks. Residents and nonresidents may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Operations Account area. Residents bring- ing in foreign banknotes and foreign currency traveler's checks exceeding the equiva- lent of CFAF 5,000 must declare them to customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized intermediary bank within eight days. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts Because the BCEAO has suspended the repurchase of banknotes circulating outside the territories of the CFA franc zone, nonresident accounts may not be credited or debited with BCEAO banknotes. These accounts may not be overdrawn without the prior authorization of the MEFP. Transfers of funds between nonresident accounts are not restricted. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. No. Domiciliation requirements All imports exceeding CFAF 500,000 are subject to this requirement. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Inspection for quality and price is required for imports exceeding CFAF 3 million; im- ports valued at CFAF 1.5 million and CFAF 3 million may be subject to random in- spection. Letters of credit are required for goods imported from outside the EU, Operations Ac- count countries, and ACP countries. Imports are classified into three categories: (1) goods requiring prior authorization or the approval of ministries; (2) goods subject to quantitative or other restrictions requir- ing licenses issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions; and (3) freely importable goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 58 COTE DTVOIRE Open general licenses Import licenses for a short list of controlled products are issued by the Directorate of External Trade Promotions in the Ministry of Commerce. Other nontariff measures Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs A maximum tariff rate of 35% is in effect. A statistical tax of 2.5% is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. Imports from members of the WAEC and the ECOWAS are exempt from the surcharges. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports, including to countries in the Operations Account area, must be received within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. Export receipts must be collected through authorized intermediary banks within one month of the due date. Exports require a customs declaration. Exports of cocoa and coffee are subject to a specific unitary export tax and can be effected only by exporters authorized by the Price Stabilization Fund. Export licenses Exports of lumber are subject to quantitative quotas allocated through auction. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries are permitted freely; those to other countries must be approved. Freight/insurance Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Commissions Interest payments Profit/dividends Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. The limits are CFAF 500,000 a trip for tourism and CFAF 75,000 a day up to one month for business travel. Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances in excess of these limits are subject to authorization from the MEFP. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits No. Credit cards can be used up to the ceilings for tourist and business travel. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements All proceeds must be collected and repatriated in full from transactions with non- Operations Account countries. All proceeds from transactions with non-Operations Account countries must be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents COTE D'lVOIRE Capital Transactions 59 Capital movements to foreign countries are restricted. Capital may freely enter the member countries of the WAEMU, except with respect to direct investment subject to prior declaration and certain loan operations requiring advance authorization. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with: (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the government of Cote dlvoire; and (2) foreign shares similar to se- curities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Cote dlvoire has already been authorized. With the exception of controls relating to foreign securities, these measures do not apply to relations with France, Monaco, member countries of the WAEMU, and the Operations Account countries. Special controls are also maintained over the solicit- ing of funds for deposit with foreign natural persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate and building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. The issue of securities in Cote dlvoire by nonresidents is subject to the prior authori- zation of the MEFP. Likewise, the sale of the securities of foreign corporations or enti- ties requires the prior approval of the ministry. The issue or sale of securities by a non- resident that has been authorized in advance may be purchased by a resident only after the latter has obtained prior approval from the MEFP. Securities sales consisting of the liquidation of an investment by means of a transfer between a nonresident and a resi- dent may be freely executed, subject to the prescriptions concerning the financial set- tlement of the operation. Settlement of the operation on securities by transfer abroad or by crediting a nonresident account requires the preparation of an exchange authoriza- tion submitted for the approval of the MEFP in support of documents attesting to the validity of the operation. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases and the transfer abroad of funds associated with them require the prior authorization of the MEFP. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents are free to sell the securities of resident corporations abroad. If these opera- tions result in the foreign control of establishments resident in Cote dlvoire, the foreign investors are required to file a declaration in advance with the MEFP. Securities sales involving the liquidation of an investment abroad are subject to prior declaration to the MEFP. The proceeds in foreign exchange from the sale or liquidation must be surren- dered to an authorized intermediary bank. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These sales are subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP (except sales involving the liquidation of an investment, which are restricted). Transfer of the proceeds of these operations requires the preparation of an exchange authorization submitted for the approval of the MEFP in support of documents attesting to the validity of the op- eration. Purchase abroad by residents These purchases are subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents may freely sell money market instruments abroad. Sales involving the liqui- dation of an investment are subject to prior declaration. The proceeds in foreign ex- change from the sale or liquidation must be surrendered to an authorized intermediary bank. The issue of money market instruments abroad by residents is governed by the provisions applicable to loans. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 60 COTE D'lVOIRE Controls on derivatives and other instruments These instruments, which are almost nonexistent in Cote dlvoire, fall within the scope of the regulatory framework generally applicable to securities and investments. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment For the issue of securities constituting a loan, the borrower must request advance authorization from the MEFP. However, this authorization is not required for loans contracted by authorized intermediaries or which comply with specific conditions as to amount and interest rate. These credits may be granted subject to the following provisions: (1) Debts arising from exports of goods must be collected and the corresponding amounts repatriated through the BCEAO within 30 days of the payment due date. The payment due date is the date specified in the commercial contract. It must in any case be no more than 120 days after the shipment of the goods; (2) Debts arising from payment for services must also be collected and surrendered on the exchange market no later than two months after the payment due date. No administrative limit is set for this due date. These credits may be freely granted; their repayment is generally authorized, subject to the presentation of documents attesting to the validity of the commercial transaction or the provision of the service, as well as the payment due date. The granting of financial credits, requires the prior authorization of the MEFP. In or- der to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization is prepared and submitted with the required vouchers to the MEFP. These facilities may be freely granted and the funds to service them must be transferred from abroad by an authorization intermediary. However, if these operations are carried out between a direct investment company established in Cote dlvoire and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MEFP. The transfer abroad of the funds necessary to service a loan is subject to authorization if the loan itself required prior authorization. Requests for authorization must be ac- companied by all supporting documents necessary to ensure the validity of the opera- tion: authorization to borrow, references from the report prepared in connection with disbursement of the proceeds of the loan, and the like. The granting of guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities requires the prior authorization of the MEFP. In order to transfer funds abroad to service these facilities, an exchange authorization is prepared and submitted with the required vouchers to the MEFP. These facilities may be freely granted, and the funds to service them must be trans- ferred from abroad by an authorization intermediary. However, if these operations are carried out between a direct investment company established in Cote dlvoire and its parent company abroad, they are considered to be direct investments and are therefore subject to prior declaration to the MEFP. Investment abroad (including purchases of real estate) by a resident is subject to prior authorization by the MEFP, which must be requested by the party concerned in a letter designating the authorized intermediary that will execute payment. This payment, by transferring funds abroad or by crediting a foreign account in francs, may not be made before the end of the time period agreed by the parties. Investments are subject to prior declaration to the MEFP, which has a period of two months in which to request the suspension of the operation. The transfer of a direct investment by a nonresident to another nonresident is also subject to prior declaration. Special incentives are provided for foreign and domestic investments in certain priority ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COTE D'lVOIRE 61 sectors and priority geographical areas. The incentives include exemption from customs duties and tariffs on all imported capital equipment and spare parts for investment projects, provided that no equivalent item is produced in Cote dlvoire. In addition, all such investments are exempt for a specified period, depending on the investment sector or area, from corporate profit taxes, patent contributions, and capital assets taxes, m general, the exemption covers 100% of applicable tax up to the fourth-to-last year of the exemption period and is reduced progressively to 75% of the tax in the third-to-last year, 50% in the second-to-last year, and 25% in the last year. Imports of raw materials for which no equivalents are produced locally are not exempt from import duties and taxes. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct foreign investment may be freely trans- ferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs after presentation of the requi- site vouchers to the MEFP and the ministry's response. The liquidation of investments, whether Ivoirien investments abroad or foreign investments in Cote dlvoire, must be reported to the minister within 20 days of the operation. Investment abroad (including purchases of real estate) by a resident is subject to prior authorization by the MEFP, which must be requested by the party concerned in a letter designating the authorized intermediary that will execute payment. This payment, by transferring funds abroad or by crediting a foreign account in francs, may not be made before the end of the time period agreed by the parties. Purchases can be freely made if they are not direct investments in a business, branch, or corporation. Proceeds from sales of real estate may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a foreign account in francs after presentation of the requisite vouchers to the MEFP and the ministry's response. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Authorized intermediaries are permitted to borrow abroad without restriction. Maintenance of accounts abroad Banks and financial institutions are not permitted to hold liquid assets outside the WAEMU, except to cover the requirements of their current operations. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange These operations can be freely executed in the case of commercial credits or are subject to the prior authorization of the MEFP in the case of loans, financial credits, or the purchase of securities issued abroad. Lending locally in foreign currency or purchasing locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange requires the prior authorization of the MEFP. (There are no ex- plicit provisions on the books with respect to these operations.) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange These purchases require the prior authorization of the MEFP. (There are no explicit provisions on the books with respect to these operations.) Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Credit controls Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 62 COTE D'lVOIRE Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Yes. Yes. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: October 1, 1995. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Czech Republic is the Czech koruna. No. Unitary. The external value is determined on the basis of a basket consisting of the deutsche mark (65%) and the U.S. dollar (35%). The Czech National Bank (CNB) quotes daily buying and selling rates for 23 convertible currencies, the ECU, and the SDR. Since June 1993, commercial banks are allowed to set their own foreign exchange rates of the Czech koruna against other currencies, which are applied to the transactions with their clients. Since February 28, 1996, the exchange rate of the Czech koruna quoted by the CNB is allowed to fluctuate within band limits of ± 7.5% against the central rate. There is no exchange tax; however, on the occasion of fixing, the CNB collects a fee of 0.25% on its foreign exchange transactions with commercial banks. Exchange subs idy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. Yes. No. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. The Ministry of Finance and the CNB are responsible for the administration of exchange controls and regulations in accordance with the Foreign Exchange Act. In general, the Ministry of Finance exercises authority over governmental credits, central and local authorities, budgetary organizations, and state funds. The CNB exercises authority over the activities of all other agents. No. No. Gold bullion may, with some exceptions, be traded only with authorized agents (generally banks). Controls on external trade The export and import of gold bullion and/or more than 10 gold coins must be reported. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 64 CZECH REPUBLIC Controls on exports and imports of banknotes There are reporting obligations on exports and imports exceeding KC 200,000. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Approval is required with some exceptions. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign currency accounts, in which foreign exchange may be deposited freely and from which payments may be made in the Czech Republic or abroad without restriction. Approval required No. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Domestic currency accounts may be opened with commercial banks in Czech koruny. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to make payments in the Czech Republic. All transfers abroad from these accounts can be made freely. Imports and Import Payments Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Import licenses are required for a few strategic items, such as uranium ore, its concen- trates, coal, poisons, military materials, firearms and ammunition, and narcotics. In ad- dition, an automatic licensing system accompanied by levies applies to some agricultural products, mineral fuel and oils, iron and steel and their products, and some chemical products. Imports of hard coal, lignite, uranium ore and its derivatives, and technological compo- nents containing uranium are subject to licenses with quotas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 65 Import taxes and/or tariffs All imports are subject to an ad valorem customs duty of up to 45% for industrial goods and up to 233% for agricultural goods. Imports are also subject to a value-added tax of 5% or 22%. Imports from the Slovak Republic are exempt from customs duties under a customs union. Imports from developing countries are granted preferences. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. Yes. No. No. No. A limited number of products require export licenses for purposes of health control (including livestock and plants), facilitating voluntary restraints on products on which partner countries have imposed import quotas (such as textiles and steel products), or preserving for the internal market natural resources or imported raw materials (such as energy, metallurgical materials, wood, foodstuffs, pharmaceutical products, and con- struction materials). For the two latter groups of products, neither quantitative nor value limits are in force. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only with a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. The purchase of foreign securities by residents requires a foreign exchange permit granted by the foreign exchange authorities. The Foreign Exchange Act defines those cases where a foreign exchange permit is not required: (1) A purchase within the framework of a direct investment; (2) A purchase from an own account of a foreign exchange entity having a banking li- cense with a required scope of activities; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 66 CZECH REPUBLIC (3) A purchase through a foreign exchange entity having a banking license with a re- quired scope of activities; (4) A purchase of publicly tradable foreign bonds denominated in Czech currency issued in the Czech Republic only with a foreign exchange permit; (5) A purchase of employee shares and other financially preferred shares issued by a nonresident, his or her domestic employees, or the domestic employees of a resident in whose enterprise the issuer has an ownership participation; and (6) A purchase of foreign securities acquired from another resident pursuant to a sepa- rate act. There are no controls on these transactions, but the yield is subject to the transfer obli- gation. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Act, the regulation includes only those deriva- tives whose assets are built up through financial means in foreign currency, gold, and foreign securities. The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only with a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only with a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Act, the regulation includes only those derivatives whose assets are built up through financial measures in foreign currency, gold, and for- eign securities. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign securities in the Czech Republic or their introduction on the do- mestic market is allowed only with a foreign exchange permit from the CNB. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Permitted if a participant in the transaction is a foreign exchange entity having a bank- ing license with a required scope of activities; otherwise, it is allowed only with a CNB foreign exchange permit. Financial credits can be extended by residents to nonresidents only based on a foreign exchange permit from the foreign exchange authorities. The following operations are exceptions: (1) Extension of a credit by a bank having a banking license with a required scope of activities; (2) The extended credit is a direct investment; and (3) The credit is granted between natural persons and is not intended for business activities. A nonresident's obligation can be secured only with a foreign exchange permit from foreign exchange authorities. However there are exceptions where the guarantee is pro- vided by a foreign exchange entity having a license with a required scope of activities. Controls on direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CZECH REPUBLIC 67 Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A nonresident, who is not a citizen of the Czech Republic, can acquire real estate only in those cases specified by the act: (1) By heritage; (2) For the diplomatic representation of a foreign country under the terms of reciprocity; (3) If it is real estate acquired in an unapportioned co-ownership of a married couple of which only one is a nonresident, or where a nonresident acquires property from a hus- band, wife, parents or grandparents; (4) Through the exchange of domestic real estate which he owns for other domestic real estate the usual price of which does not exceed the usual price of the former real estate; (5) If he has a preemption by reason of a proportioned co-ownership of real estate; (6) If it is a construction built by a nonresident on his own land; and (7) Under the terms explicitly stipulated by a separate act (e.g., Act No. 403/1990 of the Coll. of Laws, on Mitigating the Consequences of Some Property Injustice). Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange The range is determined by the banking license granted. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange The range is determined by the banking license granted. Open foreign exchange position limits Both as a monetary regulation limiting open short position vis-a-vis nonresidents and as a prudential regulation limiting commercial banks' open positions in foreign currency. Provisions specific to institutional investors Investments into an entity cannot exceed 20% of its equity. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Act on Bonds establishes that the introduction of bonds by residents on the foreign exchange market and by nonresidents on the domestic market is allowed only with a permit from the Ministry of Finance. The Act on Securities establishes that the introduction of foreign securities denominated in koruny on the domestic market is allowed only if these securities are traded on the public market in the issuer's country. In addition, there are special regulations on acquiring the capital participation of non- residents in selected institutions or economic areas—banking (a CNB permit required), audit institutions (to a maximum of 10%), and the Securities Stock Exchange (to a maximum of 3 3%). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: May 1, 1967. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange Arrangement The currency of Denmark is the Danish krone. No. Unitary. Denmark participates in the ERM of the EMS. hi accordance with this agreement, Denmark maintains the spot exchange rates between the Danish krone and the curren- cies of the other participants within margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations No. No. Yes. Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. No. Denmark notified the IMF on September 10, 1990 and July 27, 1992, that certain re- strictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current inter- national transactions with respect to Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), respectively. On December 22, 1993, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883, Denmark imposed restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Libya. Restrictions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) have been lifted. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. 69 Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. No. Eligible to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligible to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. No. No. Blocked accounts Those accounts affected by security restrictions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other country outside the EU that is not a state trading country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic, the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU, and Vietnam. Licenses with quotas They are required for imports of textiles, toys, and footwear. Import taxes and/or tar iffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 70 DENMARK Documentation requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Except for certain items subject to strategic controls, licenses are required only for exports of waste and scrap of certain metals. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents However, the prohibition does not apply to the acquisition of real estate by (1) persons who have formerly been residents of Denmark for at least five years; (2) EU nationals working in Denmark and EU-based companies operating in Denmark for residential or business purposes; and (3) non-EU nationals who are either in possession of a valid residence permit or are entitled to stay in Denmark without such a permit for residential or active business purposes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Multiple Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Egypt is the Egyptian pound. No. hi addition to the free market exchange rate, a special exchange rate of LE 1.30 per $1 is applied to transactions effected under the bilateral payments agreement with Sudan, hi addition, a separate rate of LE 0.3913 per $1 is used for the liquidation of minimal balances related to past bilateral payments agreements. The external value of the Egyptian pound is determined in the foreign exchange mar- ket. The U.S. dollar is used as the intervention currency by the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). Nonbank foreign exchange dealers are permitted to operate in the free market. They may buy and sell domestic and foreign means of payment (banknotes, coins, and traveler's checks) on their own account. These transactions may be conducted either in cash or through their accounts maintained with authorized banks in Egypt, hi addition, authorized nonbank dealers may broker any foreign exchange operation and transac- tion, except transfers to and from the country, on the accounts of their bank or nonbank customers. No. No. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to conduct forward foreign exchange trans- actions for their own accounts. No prior approval by the CBE is required, and the banks are free to determine the rates applied for forward transactions. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning com- pensation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the CBE. The balances of these accounts are very minimal. Suez Canal dues are expressed in SDKs and are paid by debiting free accounts in foreign currency. With Sudan; settlements are made in accordance with the terms of the agreement. With the Russian Federation to settle mutual debts between the Arab Republic of Egypt and the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The agreement, signed on November 10, 1994, is operative since April 25, 1995. Other payments arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Yes. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 72 EGYPT Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transactions within the framework of a general authorization without obtaining specific exchange control approval. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions exist against Libya. Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) There are payment arrears with certain non-Paris Club members and with Paris Club members for nonguaranteed debts. Negotiations have been taking place to clear these arrears. Yes. Yes. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Banks are not authorized to deal or speculate for their own or customers' accounts in precious metals. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Travelers may not take out more than LE 1,000 in Egyptian banknotes. On imports Domestic currency Persons arriving in Egypt may import up to LE 1,000 in Egyptian banknotes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. "D" accounts may be opened in the name of residents of Sudan. Most of these accounts have been opened a long time ago. They are usually credited with transfers under the respective payments agreement. Balances are used to make local payments allowed under the bilateral agreement, including for imports from Egypt. Currently, outstanding balances on these accounts are minimal. Approval required No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Balances can be converted through the foreign exchange market. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted "Free accounts" in foreign currency may be opened in the name of any entity. These accounts may be credited with transfers of convertible currencies from abroad and transfers from other similar accounts, foreign banknotes (convertible currencies), and interest earned on these accounts. These accounts may be debited for transfers abroad, transfers to other similar accounts, withdrawals in foreign banknotes by the owner or others, and for payments in Egypt. Approval required No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Domestic currency accounts EGYPT 73 "Special capital accounts" may be credited with proceeds from sales of real estate owned by foreigners residing abroad. Authorized banks may transfer funds abroad from these accounts up to the amount in foreign exchange previously transferred and surren- dered for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisition of the property, plus 5% of the value of the property for each year following the first five years of ownership until the property is sold. The remainder may be paid and/or transferred in five equal install- ments. As of July 15, 1996, these accounts were canceled and changed into convertible current accounts. "Capital and operations accounts" may be opened by companies covered by Law No. 230 of July 1989. These accounts may be credited with transfers from abroad, advance payments and long-term rents in foreign exchange, loans, funds purchased from the free market, and funds purchased from the free accounts to meet the project requirement; they may be debited for payments by the account holder (e.g., imports, profit remit- tances, interest, other invisibles, and financing of local expenditures). Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Most items can be imported freely. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Products are classified into eight groups for customs purposes with tariff rates ranging from 5% to 70% (with several exceptions). In 1994, the unweighted average statutory rate was 28%, excluding alcoholic beverages and 34% including them. Surcharges at rates of 2% and 5% apply to most imports. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports of raw hides are restricted. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 74 EGYPT Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Foreign exchange earned abroad may be held indefinitely abroad or in local free accounts. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Capital Transactions There are no legal restrictions on the issue of securities in the country by nonresidents. Trading in securities denominated in foreign currencies must be settled in foreign cur- rencies. The foreign exchange market could be mediated for transferring proceeds as- sociated with the sale of both Egyptian securities and foreign securities. Derivatives have not yet been introduced into the Egyptian market. No restrictions are applied if the commercial credits are within the limit of one year or if these credits are received by the private sector. Ministries, governmental administra- tions, public authorities, and public sector companies are required to refer to the CBE when borrowing from abroad in convertible currencies, in order to register loans of more than a one-year term. If external loans are used to finance capital goods or proj- ects, such a transaction falls under the state investment plan. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Under the foreign exchange system, transfers abroad are made freely. Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions under the Foreign Exchange Law or its Executive Regulations Manual on inward direct investment. However, this manual stipulates that nonbank companies of foreign exchange dealers should be owned entirely by Egyptians. No restrictions are imposed under the Foreign Exchange Law with respect to the liqui- dation of foreign direct investment. Article 23 of Investment Law No. 230/1989 regu- lates the liquidation of foreign direct investment as follows: Upon the request by foreign investors and subject to approval of the board of the Gen- eral Investment Authority, the repatriation of the invested capital will be within the limits of its value calculated on basis of the announced exchange rate at the time of liquidation or disposition; this should be in five equal annual installments, provided that the Authority approves the result of the liquidation. Exceptionally, the invested capital could be transferred in full, in case the balance of the foreign currency account held by the investor with one of the authorized banks, permit or if the Authority's board has approved making the transfer in full in light of the conditions considered by the board. If the invested capital is provided in kind, it could be repatriated in kind. Article 31 of the Executive Foreign Exchange Regulations Manual refers to Law No. 56/1988 regulating the foreign ownership of the local real estate and vacant lands. Under this law, natural or juridical foreign persons may own real estate and vacant lands under the following conditions: (1) The ownership shall be confined to a single property in a city or a summer or winter resort for the purpose of the foreigner's or his family's habitation, without prejudice to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT 75 the right of ownership of the property required for performing the private activity li- censed by the competent Egyptian authorities; (2) The area of the property's buildings and its precincts or vacant lands should not exceed 3,000 square meters; (3) The property should not be co-owned with an Egyptian; and (4) An amount of foreign convertible currency equal to the price of the property converted at the prevailing exchange rate shall be transferred by the foreigner. Such price is to be determined according to the value mentioned in the contract and the schedule set for this purpose by the Minister of Justice in agreement with the Minister of Housing. (As of July 15, 1996, these instructions were canceled and nonresidents were permitted to buy real estate either in foreign or domestic currency.) Sale locally by nonresidents Foreigners cannot dispose of their property before five years. The proceeds of sale in Egyptian pounds should be deposited in a special capital ac- count to be opened in the name of the foreign seller with one of the authorized banks. The authorized bank may transfer funds abroad from the account, but the transfer must be limited to the amount of convertible foreign exchange units previously transferred and surrendered in return for Egyptian pounds at the time of the acquisition of the property, plus 5% of the value for each year following the first five years of ownership until the property was sold. The remainder in the special capital account or the special capital account balances, in the case of a resident foreigner who did not previously surrender convertible currency for the purpose of the acquisition of the property, could be paid in five equal annual installments with a minimum of LE 100,000. However, if the account balance is not exhausted after five years, the account shall be converted to a current account in Egyptian pounds. (As of July 15, 1996, these accounts were changed into convertible current accounts.) Accounts in foreign currency held by either Egyptian nationals or foreigners are subject to the 10% requirement (the interest-free reserve ratio requirement of deposits in Egyptian pounds is 15%), which must be deposited with the CBE at LIBOR. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements The liquidity ratio requirement applied to assets in foreign currencies is 25%, while it is 20% with regard to assets in Egyptian pounds. Open foreign exchange position limits CBE regulations apply to open foreign currency positions as follows: (1) for each currency (local or foreign): 10% of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; (2) total long or short positions should not exceed 20% of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital; and (3) total foreign assets to total foreign liabilities, or vice versa, should not exceed 105%. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws The sale or issue of securities or collective instruments securities on local markets by nonresidents should be in accordance with Law No. 95/1992 requiring, inter alia, the preparation of a prospectus to be approved by the Capital Market Authority in which case Law No. 95 does not provide any restriction on the transfer abroad of the proceeds associated with these sales or issues. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of Acceptance: September 25,1979. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Finland is the markka. No. Unitary. The external value of the markka is market determined. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with residents, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible currencies. No. No. Forward premiums and discounts quoted by authorized banks reflect interest rate dif- ferentials in the countries of the currencies concerned. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. No. Finland notified the Fund on July 20, 1995 of exchange restrictions pursuant to the UN Security Council resolution on Libya, and of changes in exchange restrictions pursuant to the UN Security Council resolutions on Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) (these restrictions were suspended in December 1995 pursuant to a UN Security Council resolution), as well as on certain areas in Bosnia and Herze- govina and Libya. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Resident Accounts 77 Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Most goods may be imported without a license. However, an import license is required for certain agricultural products, certain steel and textile products, and certain indus- trial products originating in China. Licenses are administered by the National Board of Customs. Yes. The following products are subject to quantitative import restrictions and require an import license when imported into the EU: certain steel products subject to bilateral agreements with Russia and Ukraine, certain steel products subject to an autonomous community quota for Kazakstan, specific textile products subject to bilateral agree- ments with third countries, particular third-country textile products subject to an autonomous community quota, and certain Chinese industrial products subject to an autonomous community quota. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 78 FINLAND Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses No. No. No. No. Export licenses are required only for exports of goods related to international export control regimes and are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. The sale of arms is strictly controlled. Without quotas Export taxes Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The control applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature, which may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. No. No. No. No. Acquisition of shares giving at least one-third of the voting rights in a Finnish defense enterprise to a single foreign owner requires prior approval by the Ministry of Defense; approval can be denied only if the safeguarding of the public defense is jeopardized. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The controls apply only to the acquisition of real estate (1) for recreational purposes or secondary residences by nonresidents who have not previously been residents of Fin- land for at least five years and (2) in the Aaland Islands. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws FINLAND 79 Prudential regulation harmonized with EU directives is applied. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure C lass if ica t ion Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of France is the French franc. No. Unitary. France participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, France maintains the spot exchange rates between the franc and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15% above and below the cross rates based on the cen- tral rates expressed in ECUs. Fixed conversion rates in terms of the franc apply to the CFP franc, which is the cur- rency of the overseas territories of French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands, and the two groups of African countries that are linked to the French Treasury through an Operations Account: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote dlvoire, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo (franc de la Communaute financiere africaine, issued by the BCEAO); and Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon (franc de la Cooperation financiere en Afrique Centrale, issued by the BEAC). These fixed parities are CFPF 1 per F0.055 and CFPF 1 per F0.01, respec- tively. The Comorian franc, issued by the Central Bank of the Comoros, which holds an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury, is linked to the French franc by a fixed parity of FC 1 to F 0,0133. No. No. Registered banks in France and Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks estab- lished abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Registered banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Nonbank residents may purchase foreign exchange forward in respect of specified transactions. All residents, including nonenterprise individuals, may purchase or sell foreign exchange forward without restriction. Forward sales of foreign currency are not restricted, whether or not they are for hedging purposes. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements B i la teral payments arrangements O ther payments arrangements No. No. No. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of control Exchange control authorities FRANCE 81 The Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of the Economy is the coordinating agency for financial relations with foreign countries. It is responsible for all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and has certain powers over matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, and the like. The execution of all transfers has been delegated to registered banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions on payments have been imposed on Iraq in accordance with the UN Security Council Resolution No. 986 (1995). Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Amounts exceeding the equivalent of F 50,000 must be declared to customs upon arri- val or departure. Foreign currency At the request of Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia, banknotes issued by these countries may not be exchanged in France. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 82 FRANCE Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements A custom declaration is required. Licenses are required for some countries and some products. Imports of goods that originate outside of the EU and are subject to quantitative restrictions require individual licenses. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries. Some imports from non-EU countries are subject to minimum prices, these require an administrative visa issued by the Central Customs Administration or the appropriate ministry and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. Imports of products of the ECSC require such administrative visas when originating in non-ECSC countries. Im- ports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP are subject to vari- able import levies that have replaced previous barriers. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports from non-EU countries of most other agricultural and livestock products. Quantitative restrictions consist of EU-wide and national restrictions. The former includes textile and apparel limits under the MFA and voluntary export re- straints. National measures are authorized under Article 115 of the EU Treaty. For some commodities, such as petroleum and petroleum products, global quotas are allocated annually. In other cases, quotas are allocated semiannually and apply to all countries (other than those that have bilaterally negotiated quotas or receive privileged treatment). Duties are collected at the time of the entry into the EU in relation to the origin of the products and a tariff nomenclature. An agricultural levy (within the CAP) and, if necessary, an antidumping levy can be added. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Documentation requirements A customs declaration is required. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Certain prohibited goods may be exported only under a special license. There are no export taxes, except for works of art, which are subject to the value-added tax. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 83 Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control. The French market is based on the principle of freedom of access and operation. The only restrictions apply to the issuance of certificates of de- posit by nonresident banks and to Eurofranc issues, which are subject to rules set by the Eurofranc Committee which established that the majority of Eurofranc issues must be sold abroad. Yes. Yes. Nonresidents can only issue commercial papers. Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls do not apply to collective investment securities that are of EU origin and comply with EC Directive No. 85/61 I/EC. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment No. No. Direct investments are defined as investments leading to the control of a company or enterprise, that is, where foreign investors hold more than one-third of the capital. In the case of firms whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange, the threshold is reduced to 20% of the capital and applies to each individual foreign participation but not to the total of foreign participation. To determine whether a company is under foreign control, the Ministry of Economy and Finance may also take into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, loans, patents and licenses, and commercial contracts. Investments exceeding F 5 million must be reported to the Bank of France within 20 days. Investments are prohibited in areas pertaining to public order and defense. The liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investment in France may be freely trans- ferred abroad; the liquidation must be reported to the Ministry within 20 days of its occurrence. The liquidation of direct investments abroad is free from any prior applica- tion, provided that the corresponding funds have been reported to the Bank of France. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 84 FRANCE Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition European insurance companies are required to cover their technical reserves by assets expressed in the same currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Germany is the deutsche mark (DM). No. Unitary. Germany participates in the ERM of the EMS within margins of ± 2.25. The arrange- ments imply that the Deutsche Bundesbank (the central bank) stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. In principle, interventions within the EMS are made in participating currencies but may also take place in third currencies, such as the U.S. dollar. Partici- pants in the EMS do not maintain exchange rates for other currencies within fixed lim- its but do intervene from time to time to smooth out erratic fluctuations in exchange rates. No. No. Residents and nonresidents may freely negotiate forward exchange contracts for both commercial and financial transactions in all leading convertible currencies in the do- mestic exchange market and at major international foreign exchange markets. Germany has no officially fixed rates in the forward exchange market. All transactions are nego- tiated at free market rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. No. Germany notified the IMF on November 5, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757(1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions regarding the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance with UN sanctions In compliance with UN resolutions, restrictions have been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions regarding Iraq and Libya. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 86 GERMANY Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of brown coal are subject to import licensing from Albania, China, the former member countries of the CMEA except Bulgaria, China, Hungary, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Vietnam, and from the Czech Republic, Poland, Ro- mania, and the Slovak Republic. (These requirements were eliminated in January 1996.) Yes. Imports of pit coal from countries that are not members of the EU and EFTA are per- mitted within the framework of an annual global quota (this quota was eliminated in January 1996). The importation of certain nontextile goods from China is subject to the EUs annual global quota. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements GERMANY 87 Imports of numerous textile products are subject to bilateral agreements and regula- tions of the EU with various supplier countries. Most goods covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies. Imports of rolled steel products from Russia and Ukraine are subject to an annual quota under a voluntary restrictions agreement. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Documentation requirements For statistical purposes, an export notification is required for all goods. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to individual or general licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Capital Transactions Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The purchase of federal savings bonds by nonresident entities that are of benefit to the public (gemeinnutzige Einrichtungen) is not allowed. The sale or issue of bonds denominated in deutsche mark issued by banks with a ma- turity of less than two years is prohibited. Purchase abroad by residents No. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of securities denominated in deutsche mark is prohibited. On money market instruments The sale or issue of money market securities and instruments denominated in deutsche mark issued by banks, both by residents and nonresidents, is prohibited. On collective investment securities No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 88 GERMANY Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Banks are subject to minimum reserve requirements on the level of their foreign li- abilities with maturities of less than four years of 2% on sight deposits and 1.5% on savings and time deposits; the requirements in principle are the same as those applied to domestic liabilities. Book liabilities to nonresidents in foreign currency are exempt from reserve require- ments to the extent of the book claims on nonresidents in foreign currency with ma- turities of less than four years. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: February 2, 1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ghana is the cedi. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the cedi is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The average exchange rate in the interbank market is used for official valuation pur- poses but is not always applied by authorized banks in their transactions with each other or with their customers. Rates are quoted by authorized dealers for certain other currencies with daily quotations based on the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dol- lar in markets abroad. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other countries may be made in permitted currencies. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilat- eral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and the central or state banks of the countries concerned. Proceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have bilateral payments agree- ments must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is quoted by the BOG) or be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana for transfers to other official accounts related to the same country and for trans- fers to the related clearing account at the BOG. There are arrangements with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Poland, Ro- mania, and the Slovak Republic. The clearing balances on these agreements are being settled. Other payments arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The Foreign Transactions Examinations Office (FTEO) of the BOG records and con- firms foreign capital inflows and administers foreign exchange for official payments and travel. All foreign exchange transactions by the private sector are approved and transacted by authorized banks without reference to the BOG. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 90 GHANA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the State Gold Mining Corporation in collaboration with the BOG, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. Ghanaian residents may not buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than those by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed. The import duty on gold, including bullion and partly worked gold, is levied at a uniform rate of 30%. The gold mines export their output in semirefined form. The exportation of Ghanaian banknotes is permitted up to $5,000. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry a maximum of $3,000 or its equivalent. Domestic currency Travelers may re-import up to $5,000, which they were allowed to export. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Juridical persons Nonresident account status is granted to embassies, legations, consulates, and offices of high commissioners in Ghana and to the non-Ghanaian members of their staffs. It is also available to international institutions and foreign-registered companies operating in Ghana and to nonresident Ghanaians. The opening of these accounts must be ap- proved by the BOG. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments, with transfers from other foreign accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of con- vertible currency. They may be debited for inward payments, for transfers to other for- eign accounts, and for purchases of external currencies. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 91 Blocked accounts Funds not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital pro- ceeds, may be deposited in blocked accounts, which may be debited for authorized payments, including for purchases of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Yes. Letters of credit Most imports are effected with confirmed letters of credit established through author- ized banks on a sight basis. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are required to collect and repatriate in full the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; proceeds from exports of nontraditional products may be sold in a foreign exchange bureau upon receipt. Exporters are generally allowed to retain up to 35% of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts. However, the retention ratio is 60% for the Ashanti Gold Mining Company, 20% for log exporters, and 2% for the Cocoa Board. The retention ratio for nontraditional exports is 100% and proceeds are generally channeled through banks other than the BOG. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Letters of credit are required except for nontraditional exporters. Yes. Yes. Preshipment inspection An inspection is required, except for nontraditional exporters. Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes No. Yes. No. Cocoa exports are subject to an export tax that is calculated as the difference between export proceeds and payments to farmers together with the Cocoa Board's costs if pro- ceeds exceed payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 92 GHANA Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Profit/dividends Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Freight charges may be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the application is properly documented. No. No. Yes. No. No. No. Yes. No. No. No. No. Residents traveling abroad are permitted to carry a maximum of $3,000 or its equiva- lent in other foreign currencies. In addition, resident travelers are permitted to carry a maximum of $5,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies for direct purchases abroad. Indicative limits/bona fide test All bona fide applications in excess of the specified limits are approved. Medical costs Study abroad costs Subscriptions and membership fees Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Credit card use abroad No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements All receipts from invisibles must be sold to authorized dealers. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Capital Transactions 93 Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Nonresidents may purchase securities listed on the Ghana Stock Exchange (GSE) and may hold up to 10%. Total holdings of all nonresidents in one security listed on the GSE may not exceed 74%. For companies not listed on the stock market, nonresident participation requires the following minimum equity injections to acquire shares: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent worth in capital goods where the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; (2) $450,000 or its equivalent worth in capital goods where the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent worth in capital goods, and in the case of trading enterprises involving only the pur- chasing and selling of goods which is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian, the obligation to employ at least 10 Ghanaians. The sale requires prior approval from the BOG and the Ministry of Finance. The trans- fer or repatriation of proceeds from sales needs the notification of the BOG. There are no controls on the purchase of securities abroad by residents. However, trans- fer of funds for the purchase of securities require the prior approval of the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale requires the prior approval of the BOG. On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Nonresidents cannot bring in foreign exchange for the purpose of investing in local money market instruments (BOG and government securities). However, nonresidents holding local currencies can invest in these instruments. These sales are not allowed. No controls apply to the purchase of money market instruments abroad by residents. However, the transfer of funds for purchases of these instruments is not allowed. Sale or issue abroad by residents These sales are not allowed. On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents The purchase of collective investment securities on domestic markets by nonresidents requires prior approval of the BOG. These sales are subject to the approval by the BOG. The transfer abroad of proceeds associated with these sales requires the prior approval of the BOG. There are no controls on the purchase of collective investment securities on foreign securities markets by residents, but the transfer of funds needs prior approval from the BOG. Sale or issue abroad by residents These sales are not allowed except with the consent of the Minister of Finance. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Currently, derivatives and other instruments do not exist in the local market. There are no controls, but the transfer of funds requires BOG's approval. Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 94 GHANA Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits There are no controls on residents' receiving commercial credits from nonresident en- tities, but prior approval is required. Credits must be channeled through the banking system. Transactions must be supported by relevant documents. To residents from nonresidents Credits require the BOG's approval. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment All capital outflows must be approved by the BOG; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Foreign investments in Ghana require the prior approval of the Ghana Investment Center if they are to benefit from the facilities available under the Investment Code of 1981, under which approved investments are guaranteed, in principle, the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds. Tax holidays and initial capital allowances are also available for such investments. The code stipu- lates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated. Disputes over the amount of compensation are settled in accordance with the established procedure for conciliation—e.g., through arbitration by the International Center for Settlements of Investment Disputes or the United Nations Commission on International Trade and Law. The proceeds from sales of foreign ownership to Ghanaian nationals are permit- ted to be transferred by authorized dealer banks. Certain areas of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Under the Ghana Invest- ment Promotion Centre Act 1994 (Act 478), the minimum qualifying amounts of in- vestment by a non-Ghanaian are as follows: (1) $10,000 or its equivalent worth in capital goods by way of equity participation in a joint-venture enterprise with a Ghana- ian partner; (2) $450,000 or its equivalent worth of capital goods by way of equity where the enterprise is wholly owned by a non-Ghanaian; and (3) $300,000 or its equivalent in capital goods by way of equity capital where the enterprise must employ at least 10 Ghanaians in trading enterprises involving the purchasing and selling of goods, which is either wholly or partly owned by a non-Ghanaian. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Resident individuals are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of personal real estate abroad. The purchase of local real estate by nonresidents requires the prior approval of an Im- plementing Committee through the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad BOG notification is required. Maintenance of accounts abroad BOG notification is required. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchases within certain limits are allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA 95 Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Based on the volume of foreign exchange transactions of dealer banks. This is subject to periodic review. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: July 22, 1992. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Greece is the Greek drachma. No. Unitary. The exchange rate for the drachma is determined in daily fixing sessions in which the Bank of Greece (BOG) and authorized commercial banks participate. Greece is a member of the EMS. The drachma is included in the ECU basket, but Greece does not participate in the ERM of the EMS. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations The BOG provides credit institutions forward foreign exchange transactions including currency swaps and options. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with all countries may be made in any convertible foreign currency or through nonresident deposit accounts in drachmas. Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements No. No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Since May 1994 when foreign exchange regulations were abolished, commercial banks have been authorized to carry out the necessary formalities for the settlement of all transactions with nonresidents; banks must provide all the necessary information for the compilation of the balance of payments, hi addition, natural and juridical persons must report to the BOG, for statistical purposes, transactions of sums greater than ECU 2,000 if a domestic banking institution is not involved. No. No. Residents may freely purchase new gold sovereigns from the BOG through licensed stockbrokers at a price set by the BOG. These gold coins may be resold only to the BOG or to the Athens Stock Exchange. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free mar- ket that existed before December 22, 1965 may sell them without any formality to the BOG or to an authorized bank at the official price. Gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may be reexported after approval by the BOG. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 97 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports On imports Residents and nonresidents leaving Greece must declare exported banknotes and per- sonal checks in domestic and foreign currency if the total amount exceeds the equiva- lent of ECU 2,000. Residents exporting the equivalent of ECU 10,000 or more in banknotes and personal checks in domestic and foreign currency must provide in the declaration their fiscal number and the purpose of the transfer. If the total amount is the equivalent of ECU 20,000 or more, they must also provide a copy of their tax certificate. Exports of banknotes and personal checks in domestic and foreign currency above the equivalent of ECU 20,000 must be carried out through resident credit institutions. Residents and nonresidents entering Greece must declare imported banknotes and per- sonal checks in domestic and foreign currency if the total amount exceeds the equiva- lent of ECU 10,000. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Accounts may be credited with foreign exchange brought into Greece and with foreign banknotes brought into Greece and declared upon entry. Principal and interest on these accounts are freely transferable abroad. Residents may also open accounts in foreign exchange with undeclared foreign banknotes; principal and interest on these accounts may be withdrawn in drachmas and in foreign exchange but may not be transferred abroad. Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Yes. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 98 GREECE Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. Imports from the member countries of the EU are not subject to approval or clearance procedures. Special import licenses are required for textiles and iron and steel products from certain low-cost countries under EU surveillance. Special regulations govern im- ports of certain items such as medicines, narcotics, and motion picture films. Imports of certain products from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are prohibited. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain products to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. Indicative limits/bona fide test The limit is ECU 2,000 a person a trip in banknotes; additional amounts are permitted upon presentation of the relevant documentation. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. Indicative limits/bona fide test The limit is ECU 2,000 a person a trip in banknotes; additional amounts are permitted upon presentation of the relevant documentation. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Credit card use abroad Prior approval Remittances of earnings by foreign workers are permitted, subject to documentary re- quirement regarding proof of need and source of income. Approval is subject to relevant documentation. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE 99 Quantitative limits The limit on withdrawal in foreign banknotes is the equivalent of ECU 1,000 a month. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment The purchase of shares and other securities of a participatory nature in the broadcasting and maritime sectors, which may be affected by the laws on inward direct investment and establishment, are prohibited. No. No. Investments in border regions by non-EU residents require approval for reasons of na- tional security. There are also restrictions on the acquisition of mining rights and par- ticipation in new or existing enterprises if these are engaged in radio and television broadcasting or maritime and air transport. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions As of September 1995, foreign exchange accounts receive the same treatment as do- mestic currency accounts. Open foreign exchange position limits Only consumers' credit is subject to a limit, but it is so large that it is not binding. Provisions spec if ic to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities laws Transactions in nonorganized capital markets are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIII Date of acceptance: September 19,1983. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Iceland is the Icelandic krona (plural: kronur). A commemorative gold coin with face value of ISK 100 is legal tender, but it does not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions The external value of the krona is pegged to a basket of 16 currencies: Belgian franc, Canadian dollar, Danish krone, deutsche mark, Finnish markka, French franc, Italian lira, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilder, Norwegian krone, Portuguese escudo, the pound sterling, Spanish peseta, Swedish krona, Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of Iceland (CBI) intervenes in the exchange market to keep the exchange rate within a margin of ± 6% around the central rate. No. No. Iceland has no organized forward market and the krona has no quoted forward ex- change rate. However, forward contracts can be freely negotiated in all currencies. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce has ultimate responsibilities for imports, capital movements, and foreign exchange regulation according to provisions of the Exchange Act No. 87/1992. The CBI licenses the foreign exchange dealers on a com- mercial basis and sets the reporting requirements for statistical purposes and for im- plementation of control on inward foreign direct investment. Iceland notified the IMF on July 31, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). On December 1, 1995, Iceland notified the IMF that exchange restrictions against Libya had been imposed in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 883 (1993). Payments arrears No. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND 101 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Banks must report to the CBI the monthly positions of nonresident accounts. All ac- counts in domestic banks must be identified by name and identification number. Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Most goods can be imported freely without a license. A fee of 1% was assessed on the krona value of the import license when it was issued until July 1, 1995, date on which it was abolished. Negative list Live animals and certain other products require health certificates (Act No. 28/1993). Open general licenses Imports by tourist and foreign visitors. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Automobiles are subject to a special import tax up to 32%, depending on the weight of the vehicle and its engine capacity. Buses, heavy trucks, ambulances, and public serv- ice vehicles are exempt. Certain goods, whether imported or domestic, are subject to a special excise tax of 24% or 30% ad valorem. A specific import tax applies to wines and spirits, with the amount of tax depending on the alcohol content and volume. Tobacco can only be imported under state trading arrangements. The monopoly on fer- tilizer imports was lifted on January 1, 1995. On September 1, 1995, restrictions on alcoholic beverages were lifted; retail sales, however, remain under a state trading arrangement. Some fresh vegetables and plants, including potatoes and flowers, are subject to periodic import control. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. Exports of military, fisheries, and agricultural products require licenses from the Min- istry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade in accordance with Export Act No. 4/1988 and regulation No. 70/1993. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 102 ICELAND Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments The purchase of shares or other securities of a participating nature which may be af- fected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment (Code, IV/C1.) is not allowed. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. All foreign exchange transactions related to outward direct investment must go through a resident bank for tax control and statistical purposes. If an outward direct investment is to be financed with funds borrowed abroad, then a license is needed from the Minis- ter of Commerce if the loan exceeds the amounts specified below. Foreign direct investments in Iceland are regulated in accordance with special legisla- tion No. 34/1991, as follows: (1) nonresidents are free to market investments in Ice- land, subject to the conditions laid down in general legislation governing foreign in- vestment or sector-specific legislation; (2) only resident Icelandic citizens or domesti- cally registered companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may fish within the Icelandic fishing limit or operate primary fish processing facilities; (3) only Ice- landic state and local authorities, resident Icelandic citizens, and domestically regis- tered Icelandic companies wholly owned by resident Icelandic citizens may acquire the right to harness waterfalls and geothermal energy; the restriction applies to power pro- duction and distribution companies; (4) investment by nonresidents in domestic airlines is restricted to 49%; (5) investment by nonresidents in domestic incorporated commer- cial banks is restricted to 25%, but foreign commercial banks are allowed to open branches in Iceland; and (6) total investment by single nonresidents, or by financially linked nonresidents, in excess of ISK 250 million a year is subject to authorization by the Minister of Commerce. This financial limit is subject to change according to the price index. In some sectors of the economy, sectoral legislation stipulates that either some or all of the founders or managing directors of a company must be residents. The legislation on joint-stock companies stipulates that the majority of founders must be residents before the company is established. The managing director and a majority of the members of the board of directors of a company must be residents. Citizens of the EEA are ex- empted from this restriction, and the Minister of Commerce may grant exceptions to this requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents ICELAND 103 The ownership and uses of real estate in Iceland are governed by the provision of Act No. 19/1966 which was amended in 1991 and 1993. The conditions to own real estate in Iceland are: (1) individual owners must be Icelandic citizens; (2) in the case of un- limited companies, all owners must be Icelandic citizens; and (3) joint-stock compa- nies must be registered in Iceland, with at least 80% owned by Icelandic citizens, and all of the members of the board of directors being Icelandic citizens. Icelandic citizens must control the majority of the voting power at annual meetings. The same conditions apply if the real estate is to be leased for more than three years or if the lease agree- ment cannot be terminated with less than one year's notice. However, a company that is granted an operating license in Iceland may acquire real estate for its own use as long as the license does not carry with it the right to exploit natural resources. Citizens of the European Economic Area and other foreign citizens who have been domiciled in Iceland for at least five years are exempted from these restrictions. The Minister of Justice may grant others exemption from these requirements. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits CBI regulates the net foreign exchange position of banks that participate in the foreign market exchange market. Provisions specific to institutional investors No limits are imposed on portfolios invested locally or abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: August 20, 1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of India is the Indian rupee. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the rupee is determined by demand and supply conditions in the interbank market. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) purchases spot U.S. dollars from authorized persons at their designated offices or branches at the rate determined on the basis of the market exchange rate. Exchange tax No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Authorized dealers are allowed to deal spot or forward in any permitted currency. For- ward purchases or sales of foreign currencies against rupees with banks abroad are prohibited. The RBI has on occasion purchased or sold forward U.S. dollars. The RBI may enter into swap transactions, under which it buys spot U.S. dollars and sells for- ward for up to six months. The Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India, Ltd. (ECGC) provides protection against exchange fluctuation with respect to deferred receivables from the date of a bid up to 15 years after the award of a contract; exchange cover is offered in Australian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.A.E. dirhams, and U.S. dollars. For payments specified in other convertible curren- cies, cover is provided at the discretion of the ECGC. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: member countries of the ACU (except Nepal) and the external group (all other countries). Pay- ments to countries other than ACU member countries may be made in Indian rupees to the accounts of a resident of any of these countries or in any permitted currency. Re- ceipts from countries other than member countries of the ACU may be obtained in In- dian rupees from accounts maintained with an authorized dealer or in banks situated in any of the countries in the external group or in any permitted currency. Receipts from the external group of countries may be obtained in rupees from the accounts of banks situated in any country in the group. These accounts must be maintained with an authorized dealer or in any permitted currency. Payments relating to current transac- tions financed with loans from international institutions are settled outside the ACU mechanism. However, special rules may apply with respect to exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. All payments on account of eligible current international transactions be- tween India and other members of the ACU except Nepal are required to be settled through the ACU arrangement, as are transactions effected on a deferred basis with the ACU countries. However, settlement of payments toward import of sugar, fertilizer, and pulses from any of the ACU countries may be made outside the ACU mechanism in any permitted currency. Indian exporters are also permitted to accept payment in free 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 105 foreign exchange in respect of their exports to ACU countries provided such payment is voluntarily offered by the importer in ACU country. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Yes. The RBI stands ready to purchase and sell spot and sell forward currencies of the member countries of the ACU—Bangladesh, Islamic Republic of Iran, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka; Nepal is a member of the ACU, but the RBI does not deal in Nepalese rupees. Exchange control is administered by the RBI in accordance with the general policy laid down by the government in consultation with the RBI. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to authorized dealers. Import and export licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT). Yes. Yes. No. There are no restrictions on internal trade in gold. However, gold mines continue to sell gold to industrial users through the distribution network of the State Bank of India (SBI) as well as through market sales. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for exportation with a gold value not exceeding 10% of total value and jewelry constituting the personal ef- fects of a traveler, subject to certain monetary limits, are prohibited unless effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The net exportation of gold from India is not permitted. Exporters of gold and silver jewelry may import their essential inputs such as gold, silver mountings, findings, rough gems, precious and semiprecious synthetic stones and unprocessed pearls, and the like, with import licenses granted by the licens- ing authority. Under this scheme, the foreign buyer may supply gold or silver, in ad- vance, free of charge, for manufacture and ultimate export of gold or silver jewelry and articles thereof. Under the Gold Jewelry and Articles Export Promotion and Replenishment Scheme, exporters of gold jewelry and articles are entitled to replenishment of gold through the designated branches of the SBI or any other agency nominated by the Ministry of Commerce at a price indicated in the certificate issued by the SBI after purchase of gold. The scheme is limited to exports that are supported by an irrevocable letter of credit, payment of cash on a delivery basis, or advance payment in foreign exchange. Exports of gold jewelry may also be allowed on a collection basis (documents against acceptance). The exporter has the option to obtain gold from the SBI in advance. On presentation of required documents, the appropriate release order and gem replenish- ment license may be issued by the licensing authority, provided that the exporters sat- isfy value-added and other requirements under the scheme. Special permission for imports of gold and silver is granted only in exceptional cases where either no foreign exchange transaction is involved or the metals are needed for a particular purpose. Special permission is also granted when the gold or silver is im- ported for processing and reexportation, provided that payments for the importation ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 106 INDIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts will not be required, the entire quantity of metal imported will be reexported in the form of jewelry, and the value added will be repatriated to India in foreign exchange through an authorized dealer. In general, the exportation of Indian currency notes and coins, except to Bhutan and Nepal, is, prohibited. The exportation to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denomina- tions higher than Rs 100 is also prohibited. However, resident Indians may take with them Indian currency notes not exceeding Rs 1,000 a person at any one time to coun- tries other than Nepal when going abroad on a temporary visit. Authorized dealers, exchange bureaus, and authorized money changers are permitted to sell foreign currency, notes and coins, up to the equivalent of Rs 100 to travelers going to Bangladesh and up to $50 or its equivalent to those going to other countries except Bhutan and Nepal. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency that they brought in (and declared on entry if it exceeded $2,500), less the amounts sold to authorized deal- ers and authorized money changers in India. The importation of Indian currency notes and coins is prohibited. However, any person may bring in Indian currency notes (other than notes of denominations larger than Rs 100) from Nepal. Indian travelers may bring in up to Rs 1,000 a person if they pre- viously took out this amount when traveling abroad on a temporary visit. Foreign currency notes may be brought in without limit, provided that the total amount is declared to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes, coins, and traveler's checks exceeds $10,000 or its equivalent and/or the aggregate value of foreign currency notes brought in at any one time exceeds $2,500 or its equivalent. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. The accounts of Indians and of Bhutanese and Nepalese nationals residing in Bhutan and Nepal, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Bhutanese, and Nepalese firms, companies, or other organiza- tions in Bhutan and Nepal, are treated as resident accounts; however, residents of Ne- pal obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Accounts related to all other foreign coun- tries are treated as nonresident accounts. Accounts of banks in the external group of countries may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), and with proceeds from sales of permitted currencies. They may be debited for payments of exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange accounts permitted INDIA 107 persons and firms (including banks) and transfers to nonresident external rupee (NRER) accounts. The balances in the accounts of banks may be converted into any permitted currency. All other entries on bank accounts require prior approval from the RBI. "Ordinary nonresident rupee accounts" of individuals or firms may be credited with: (1) the proceeds of remittances received in any permitted currency from abroad through normal banking channels, balances sold by the account holder in any permitted currency during his or her visit to India, or balances transferred from rupee accounts of nonresident banks; and (2) legitimate dues paid in rupees by the account holder in India. For credits exceeding Rs 10,000, the authorized dealers are required to ascertain the bona fide nature of the transaction before crediting the account. Authorized dealers may debit the ordinary nonresident rupee accounts for all local disbursements, including investments in India that are covered by the general or special permission of the RBI. "Nonresident external rupee accounts" may be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside outside India or for overseas com- panies and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin. In addition to authorized dealers holding licenses under the 1973 Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, some state cooperative banks and certain urban cooperative banks and scheduled commercial banks not holding such licenses have also been permitted by the RBI to open and maintain nonresident rupee accounts subject to certain conditions. Such accounts may also be opened for eligible persons during tem- porary visits to India against the tender of foreign currency traveler's checks, notes, or coins. They may be credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of residence of the account holder or from any country. They may also be credited with the proceeds of foreign currency traveler's checks, personal checks, and drafts in the name of the account holder, as well as foreign currency notes and coins tendered by the account holder while in India and also with income on authorized in- vestments. The transfer of funds from other NRER accounts or foreign currency non- resident (FCNR) accounts is also allowed for bona fide personal purposes. The ac- counts may be debited for disbursement in India and for transfers abroad. Debiting is also permitted for any other transaction if covered under general or special permission granted by the RBI. Balances may also be used to purchase foreign currency, rupee traveler's checks, or traveler's letters of credit for the use of the account holder, his or her family and de- pendents, and, in the case of corporate entities, for the use of directors and employees. Investments in the shares of Indian companies or in partnership firms and the like or in immovable property may be made with the specific or general approval of the RBI. Interest on deposits in nonresident external accounts in any bank in India is exempt from the personal income tax, although juridical persons are not entitled to this ex- emption. Interest earnings are transferable. The balances held in such accounts by natu- ral and juridical persons are exempt from the wealth tax; gifts to close relatives in India from the balances in these accounts are exempt from the gift tax. FCNR accounts denominated in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars may be held in the form of term deposits by persons of Indian nationality or origin and by overseas companies specified above. These accounts may be credited with amounts received through normal banking channels, including interest. Balances may be repatriated at any time without reference to the RBI. Balances may also be used for the purposes for which debits to NRER accounts are allowed. Effective May 15, 1993, a new FCNR (Banks) Scheme was introduced, and the previous FCNR (A) scheme was abolished, effective August 15, 1994; however, the exchange rate guaran- tees (issued by the RBI) on existing deposits under the scheme will remain in effect until the deposits mature. The FCNR (B) operates in the same manner as the existing FCNR accounts, except that the issuing bank (not the RBI) provides the exchange rate guarantee on deposit balances. "Nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit accounts" may be opened by nonresident Indian nationals, overseas corporate bodies predominantly owned by nonresident Indian ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 108 INDIA nationals, and foreign citizens of non-Indian origin (except Pakistani and Bangladeshi nationals). These accounts may be opened with funds in freely convertible foreign exchange remitted from abroad or funds transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. The funds in these accounts may not be repatriated abroad at any time. Since October 1994, accruing interest has been permitted to be transferred abroad. "Foreign currency ordinary (nonrepatriable) deposit accounts" may be maintained by nonresidents. These accounts may be denominated in U.S. dollars and credited with funds received from abroad in freely convertible foreign exchange or transferred from existing NRER or FCNR accounts. On maturity of deposits, the rupee value of the principal and accrued interest may be credited to the ordinary nonresident rupee ac- counts of the depositor. Approval required No. Domestic currency accounts Nonresident (nonrepatriable) rupee deposit accounts may be opened by nonresident Indian nationals, overseas corporate bodies predominantly owned by nonresident Indian nationals, and foreign citizens of non-Indian origin (except Pakistani and Bangladeshi nationals). These accounts may be opened with funds in freely convertible foreign ex- change remitted from abroad or funds transferred from existing NRER or FCNR ac- counts. The funds in these accounts may not be repatriated abroad at any time. Since October 1994, accruing interest has been permitted to be transferred abroad. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list The importation of certain specified precious, semiprecious, and other stones; safety, security, and related items; seeds, plants, and animals; insecticides and pesticides; drugs and Pharmaceuticals; chemicals and allied items relating to the small-scale sec- tor, and certain other items is restricted. The prohibited items are tallow, fat and/or oils, rendered or unrendered, of any animal origin, animal rennet, wild animals (including their parts and products), and ivory. Imports from Fiji and Iraq are also prohibited. Import taxes and/or tariffs No. State import monopoly Certain specified types of petroleum products, fertilizers, edible and nonedible oils, seeds and cereals are canalized for import through the state trading enterprises, i.e., Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation of India Ltd., State Trading Corporation of India Ltd., and the Food Corporation of India. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds must be repatriated by the due date of receipt or within six months of shipment, whichever is earlier, and surrendered to authorized dealers, as required, unless specifically permitted by the RBI to retain them either with authorized dealers in India or with banks abroad. Regarding exports made to Indian-owned warehouses abroad established with the permission of the RBI, a maximum period of 15 months is allowed for realization of export proceeds. Exporters are required to obtain permission from the RBI through authorized dealers in the event that the export value is not real- ized within the prescribed period. The RBI also administers a scheme under which ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 109 engineering goods (capital goods and consumer durables) may be exported under de- ferred credit arrangements, so that the full export value is paid in installments over more than six months. Exporters are permitted to retain up to 35% of foreign exchange receipts in foreign currency accounts with banks in India; in the case of 100% export-oriented units, units in export processing zones, and units in hardware/software technology parts, up to 50% of foreign exchange receipts may be retained. Licenses are required for exports of mineral ores and concentrates and chemicals in- cluding those specified in the UN Chemical Weapon Convention. Yes. Surrender requirements Export licenses Export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends No. No. No. No. No. Remittance of interest earned by nonresidents is allowed after all tax and other liabili- ties in India have been paid. Yes. Yes. Yes. Remittances of profits and dividends to nonresident beneficiaries are allowed subject to certain conditions and provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. No. No. Payments for travel Prior approval Under the Basic Travel Quota Scheme, foreign exchange up to $2,000 a person a year may be released by authorized dealers for one or more trips abroad, except visits to Bhutan and Nepal. Quantitative limits Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test The indicative limits for various categories of business travel are as follows: (1) the per diem for senior executives under the Special Scale is $500 and for the others under the General Scale $350; (2) Indian firms participating in trade fairs/exhibitions and private printers and publishers wishing to participate in overseas book fairs and exhibitions abroad can obtain up to $20,000 or its equivalent; (3) the limit for remittances by In- dian shipping companies toward fees for solicitors and adjusters is $10,000; and (4) the limit for remittances to foreign data service vendors for the use of international data bases is $10,000. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 110 INDIA Medical costs Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in India on account of their employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance pre- miums, to support their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances of up to 75% of net income by foreign nationals, other than those from China, Pakistan, and South Africa, provided that they hold valid employment visas. Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated. Surrender requirements Recipients of foreign exchange are permitted to retain up 25% of receipts. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents RBI permission is required for acquiring, holding, or disposing of any security. Grant- ing permission for acquisition, transfer of funds from India is also permitted, where necessary, those transactions require RBI permission. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) are permitted to make investments in all securities traded on the primary and secondary markets, including equity and other securities and instruments of companies listed on the stock exchange in India. FIIs are required to register initially with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and with the RBI. Authorization from the RBI enables FIIs to (1) open accounts denominated in foreign currency; (2) open nonresident rupee accounts for the purposes of operating securities investments; (3) transfer balances between foreign currency accounts and the rupee account; and (4) transfer abroad capital, capital gains, dividends, and interest income. There is no restriction on the value of investments by FIIs in the primary and secondary markets, but investment in debt instruments may not exceed 30% of total investment. Portfolio investments in primary or secondary markets are subject to a ceiling of 5% of the issued share capital for individual Fn holdings and 24% of issued share capital for the total holdings of all registered FH in any one company, with the exception of: (1) foreign investments under financial collaboration, which are permit- ted up to 51%; and (2) investments through offshore single and regional funds, global depository receipts, and convertibles in the Euromarket. Nonresidents are not permitted to issue securities in the local market. In regard to se- curities of Indian companies held by nonresidents, transfer to a resident is required to be confirmed by the RBI. Transfer of sale proceeds is permitted subject to tax provided no restrictions were imposed about repatriation of sale proceeds while approving the original investment. Transfer between two nonresidents does not require such ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase abroad by residents INDIA i ll confirmation but nonresident transferee requires permission for purchase of shares of an Indian company. In the case of sale of foreign securities, repatriation of sale proceeds to India is re- quired, unless otherwise specified. Indians who return to India after a minimum con- tinuous stay of one year abroad are exempted from the requirement of obtaining RBI permission for continuing to hold the securities already purchased prior to their return to India out of incomes earned by them while abroad. They are also free to utilize sales proceeds of such securities for acquisition of further securities without permission of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations as for purchases abroad by residents apply. On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require RBI approval. These transactions require RBI approval. Residents are not permitted to purchase such instruments abroad without authorization of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions require RBI prior approval. Issue of collective investment securities by nonresidents on local markets in India is not permitted. No resident can also acquire any foreign security without authorization from the RBI. Purchase abroad by residents Resident companies are not permitted to issue any security to nonresidents without approval of the RBI. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require permission from the RBI; the Unit Trust of India has been granted permission for issue of certain securities abroad. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Resident companies have not permitted to issue rupee-based derivatives and other in- struments in India. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents These transactions are not allowed. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require RBI permission. Sale or issue abroad by residents These transactions require RBI permission. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents A commercial credit of up to six months can be allowed regarding exports on docu- ments-against-acceptance terms. Contracts for exports involving payments to be real- ized beyond the normal period of six months are treated as deferred payment exports. Such exports are permitted keeping in mind the credit terms offered, commodity to be exported, and other related considerations. This applies to turnkey/construction/service contracts undertaken by Indian exporters on credit terms. Under the Buyer's Credit Scheme, the Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank) offers credits to foreign buyers in connection with the export of capital goods and turnkey projects in India in participa- tion with commercial banks in India. These are considered by the Eximbank depending upon creditworthiness, standing and financial position of the overseas borrower, eco- nomic viability of the project, standing of the Indian exporter, etc. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 112 INDIA To residents from nonresidents Short-term loans/credits maturing within one year are considered by RBI on their terms and conditions comparable with the terms offered in overseas markets. Proposals for raising foreign currency loans/credits, such as buyer's credits, supplier's credits or lines of credit by firms, companies or lending institutions, for financing the cost of goods, technology or for any other purpose require approval from the government of India, the Ministry of Finance. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These transactions require prior permission from the RBI. To residents from nonresidents Persons residing in India may not borrow any foreign exchange from persons residing inside or outside India without prior permission from the RBI. The contracting of all foreign currency loans and credits secured from nonresident persons and companies (including banks) as well as repayment of such loans and credits and payments of in- terest and other charges on such loans require prior permission from the RBI. The pro- cedure prescribed for raising foreign currency loans by Indian entities envisages that borrowing proposals, except when loans are for less than one year, must be cleared by the Ministry of Finance before they may be approved by the RBI. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities These transactions require authorization from the RBI. By residents to nonresidents Yes. To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment RBI has permitted authorized dealers to grant loans to residents against guarantees from nonresidents subject, inter alia, to the condition that no direct or indirect outflow should be involved by way of guarantee commission or otherwise. Foreign equity up to 51% is permitted by the RBI in specified high-priority industries on an automatic basis. The RBI also allows foreign equity holdings up to 51% in trad- ing companies primarily engaged in export activities. Other applications require clear- ance from the government of India. A liberal policy is followed for investments in India by nonresidents of Indian-origin or overseas corporate bodies predominantly owned by such persons. FIIs are permitted to invest in all securities in primary or secondary mar- kets in India within the guidelines issued by the government of India and the Ministry of Finance. Foreign companies are also permitted to set up liaison offices in India for carrying on liaison activities provided their entire expenses are remitted from abroad. Outward direct investments are subject to approval of the RBI. Proposals for participa- tion in overseas joint ventures, setting up wholly owned subsidiaries, or opening of offices abroad which involve remittance of cash, export of goods from India, etc., are considered in light of the financial position and track record of the applicant Indian company, the past export performance, and the benefits likely to accrue in terms of foreign exchange earnings by way of exports, technology transfer, profits, dividends, and so forth. Applications for investments in areas that do not fall within the authority of the RBI but that are covered by the foreign investment policy are approved by the Foreign In- vestment Promotion Board (FIPB). Such investments may be approved up to 100% of capital on a case-by-case basis. The Ministry of Industry is the relevant agency for all issues related to foreign direct investment, including approvals. Nonresidents, nonciti- zens, and nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law must have permission from the RBI to initiate, expand, or continue any business activity in India and to hold or acquire shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial ac- t iv i ty in India. Persons of Indian nationality or origin who reside abroad may invest freely in any public or private limited company engaged in any activity except agricul- tural or plantation activities and real estate business (excluding real estate develop- ment, that is, construction of houses, etc.), or in any partnership or proprietary concern engaged in any activity other than real estate business and agricultural or plantation activity, provided that (1) funds for investment are either remitted from abroad through normal banking channels or are drawn from their nonresident accounts; (2) that repa- triation of the capital invested or the profits and d iv idends arising therefrom will not be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 113 requested; and (3) that overall limits on holdings of shares and convertible debentures bought through the stock exchange by nonresident Indians (see below) are adhered to. Overseas companies, societies, and partnership firms of which at least 60% is owned by nonresidents of Indian nationality or origin, and overseas trusts in which at least 60% of the beneficial interest is irrevocably held by nonresident Indians are also al- lowed to invest in any public or private limited companies in accordance with the above provisions. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies, as defined above, may use funds derived from fresh remittances or held in their nonresident (external) or foreign currency (nonresident) accounts to (1) make portfolio investments with repatriation benefits up to 1% of the capital, provided that their total holdings of shares and convertible deben- tures held on either a repatriable or nonrepatriable basis by all nonresident investors do not exceed 5% of the paid-up capital of the company concerned or of the total paid-up value of each series of convertible debentures issued by the company concerned. How- ever, if a company so resolves through a general body resolution, then purchases of shares or debentures of such a company could be made up to 24% as against 5% men- tioned above; (2) invest freely in national savings certificates with full repatriation benefits; (3) invest up to 40% of the new equity capital issued by a company setting up industrial manufacturing projects, hospitals (including diagnostic centers), hotels of at least a three-star category, and shipping, software, and oil exploration services with repatriation rights for capital and income, subject to deduction of applicable Indian taxes; and (4) invest up to 100% of new investments, including expansion of existing industrial undertakings in specified priority industries with free repatriation of such investment. Trading companies must be registered with the Ministry of Commerce and must obtain a certificate of their status as either export, trading, star trading, or super star trading house before applying to the RBI for remittances or dividends. Foreign direct investment is permitted in trading companies. The RBI has the authority to permit foreign investment of up to 51% of the paid-up capital of such Indian compa- nies. A higher percentage is considered for approval by the FIPB, and even 100% for- eign equity may be approved, provided that the funding company is primarily engaged in exports. Existing joint-venture companies may raise the ratio of foreign equity shares to 51% of their capital through expansion of their capital base or through preferential allocation of shares to the foreign investor. Firms in certain manufacturing industries and tourist industries obtain RBI automatic approval for the expansion. Sale of shares/securities/immovable property requires approval of the RBI. Repatriation of net (less of taxes) sale proceeds is generally permitted provided no condition about nonrepatriation was imposed while approving the original investment. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions These transactions require RBI permission. Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Indians who have returned to India after a minimum continuous stay of one year abroad are, however, permitted to hold immovable property acquired with funds earned while they are abroad. They are also free to dispose of such properties or acquire new prop- erties from sale proceeds of such properties. Nonresident Indians and overseas companies (predominantly owned by nonresident Indians) may invest in companies engaged in real estate development (e.g., construc- tion of houses, etc.). Up to 100% of new investments may have to be locked in for a period of three years for disinvestment. After three years, remittances of disinvestment will be allowed up to the original investment in foreign exchange. In case of overseas corporate bodies, profits will be allowed to be repatriated up to 16%. Repatriation of net (less of taxes) sale proceeds is generally permitted provided no condition about nonrepatriation was imposed while approving the original investment. The raising of foreign currency loans or lines of credit abroad is subject to approval by the government of India, the Ministry of Finance, and the Department of Economic Affairs. Authorized dealers are permitted to avail themselves of loans, overdrafts, and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 114 INDIA other types of fund-based credit facilities from their overseas branches/correspondents up to $500,000 or its equivalent for meeting requirements of normal exchange busi- ness. They may obtain loans or overdrafts from their overseas branches or correspon- dents in excess of this limit solely for the purpose of replenishing their rupee resources in India without prior approval from the RBI; repayment of such borrowings requires prior approval from the RBI or may be accorded only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the RBI or any other bank or financial institution and is clear of all money market borrowings for a period of at least four weeks before the repayment. Authorized dealers in foreign exchange are permitted to maintain with their overseas branches and correspondents foreign currency balances at levels which are commensu- rate with their normal business needs. In all other cases, specific permissions are granted by the RBI on merits of each case (e.g., airlines/shipping companies maintain- ing foreign currency abroad). Such applications are considered by the RBI on a case-by-case basis. However, author- ized dealers have been permitted to invest their temporary surplus funds in foreign treasury bills/deposits with banks abroad. Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign currency to residents meeting genuine foreign exchange requirements toward preshipment credit in foreign currency for fi- nancing domestic inputs or for granting foreign currency loans to Foreign Currency Nonresident (Banks) FCNR(B) account holders. There is, however, no scheme as yet for issue of local security denominated in foreign exchange. No scheme is in place allowing for these transactions. While resident deposit liabilities are subject to statutory reserve requirements, nonresi- dent deposits under FCN(RB) and Nonresident (Nonrepatriable) Rupee Deposit [NR(NR)RD] schemes are completely exempted and liabilities under Nonresident (External) Rupee Accounts [NR(E)RA] scheme are subject to concessional reserve requirements. While interest on resident deposits for maturity of over two years has been completely deregulated, interest rates on FCNR(B) (which need to be aligned to the international rates) are decided by the RBI. Interest rates on NR(NR)RD are, however, deregulated for all maturities. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Interest rate controls Open foreign exchange position limits Banks are required to maintain on an ongoing basis tier I capital at 5% of the open position limit approved by the RBI. Further, overall open position limits should have a reasonable relation to the capital of the bank. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position as of December 3J, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article V1H Date of acceptance: May 7, 1988. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Indonesia is the Indonesian rupiah. Two commemorative gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate is determined by the Bank Indonesia (BI) under a system of man- aged float, by which the bank announces an intervention rate and a conversion rate. The intervention rate introduced on December 29, 1995 is computed on the basis of a basket with lower and upper bands of ± Rp 33. The U.S. dollar is the intervention cur- rency. The conversion rate is determined on the basis of the market rate with a spread of buying and selling rates of ± Rp 22; this rate is used for transactions with foreign exchange banks, government, as well as supranational institutions. No. No. Forward exchange transactions are conducted at rates fixed bilaterally between the BI and the banks concerned. The BI does not accept investment swaps with a maturity of more than two years offered at the initiative of banks and only provides liquidity swaps on its initiative. Official cover of forward operations Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. There are countertrade arrangements as part of the bids for government-sponsored construction or procurement projects whose import component is valued at more than Rp 500 million. Exchange control authorities BI, the Ministry of Finance, and foreign exchange banks exercise exchange controls. International security restrictions Restrictions against Israel are in place. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions against countries for which the UN has imposed a trade embargo are in effect. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Travelers may freely take out up to Rp 65,000 a person in Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970, and up to Rp 130,000 a person in gold and 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 116 INDONESIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency silver coins issued in October 1974. Amounts in excess of these limits require the prior approval of the BI. Gold may be imported freely. Imports are subject to a levy of Rp 25 pe r$ l. Travelers may take out Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 50,000 a person; repatria- tion in excess of this amount requires prior approval from the BI or must be done through specified banks. Travelers may bring in Indonesian notes and coins up to Rp 50,000 a person; repatria- tion in excess of this amount requires prior approval from the BI or must be done through specified banks. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. If holders of accounts in foreign exchange wish to withdraw funds, they must send a letter to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Approval required No. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency If holders of these accounts wish to withdraw funds, they must send a letter to the bank; no checks may be drawn on foreign currency. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Yes. If holders of accounts in foreign exchange wish to withdraw funds, they must send a letter to the bank. No checks may be drawn on foreign currency accounts. Domestic currency accounts Blocked accounts No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Requirements are set by commercial banks on the basis of their assessment. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Imports are subject to preshipment inspection in the exporting country by agencies designated by the government of Indonesia; inspection expenses are borne by the Indo- nesian government. Following inspection, Surveyor Indonesia in Jakarta is required to issue on behalf of its agency in the exporting country a survey report (LPS) specifying the type, quality, quantity, and estimated cost of the goods; the applicable tariff code; freight charges; import duties; and value-added taxes. The LPS must be sent by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses INDONESIA 117 agency in Jakarta directly to the bank that has opened letters of credit or, for imports not covered by letters of credit, to the bank designated by the importer. Cement-asbestos sheets, dry batteries, steel slabs, low-voltage electric cord, and elec- tric light bulbs are subject to quality control. Imports from Israel and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade em- bargo are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of most secondhand goods and of certain products. In addition, secondhand engines and their parts and other capital goods may be imported by industrial firms for their own use or for the reconditioning of their industry, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministries of Trade and of In- dustry. Certain categories of agricultural imports, including foodstuffs, beverages, and fruits, may be imported only by registered importers designated by the Minister of Trade. The procurement policies of companies approved for the importations of fruit, alcoholic beverages, and chickens are evaluated annually by the government, although explicit quantiative restrictions are not placed on these products. There is a registry of authorized importers that includes only Indonesian nationals, although foreign investors are permitted to import the items required for their own projects. Although all imports into Indonesia are subject to licensing requirements, most are classified under the nonresident license (also called General Importer Li- cense). Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain products are granted preferential duties within the framework of the ASEAN. Taxes collected through the exchange system Import taxes are collected through foreign exchange banks authorized by the Ministry of Finance. State import monopoly Imports of certain goods remain restricted to approved importers, most of which are state enterprises. Petramina has a monopoly on the importation of lubricating oil and lubricating fats, and Dahana, on the importation of ammunition and explosive gelatin. The Board of Logistics (BULOG) has the sole right to import rice, fertilizer, and sugar, the monopoly rights of approved importers (sole agents) also remain in effect for the importation of certain heavy equipment and motor vehicles, although this right may be transferred to general importers. The importation of trucks is subject to restriction. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Letters of credit Preshipment inspection Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. Exports with sight letters of credit conditions must be settled not later than 30 days from the date the exports are registered with the foreign exchange bank. All exports of rattan, leather, wood, and wood products must be examined before shipment. Quality controls are also maintained on certain products, including fish, manioc (cassava), shrimp, coffee, tea, pepper, spices, vegetable oil, and cocoa beans. Exports to Israel and the countries against which the UN has imposed a trade embargo, are prohibited, as are exports to all countries of certain categories, of unprocessed or low-quality rubber, brass and copper scrap (except from the island of Irian Jaya), iron scrap, steel scrap, and antiques of cultural value. Exporters are required to possess trade permits, which are issued by the Ministry of Trade. Exports of certain domestically produced commodities must have prior authorization from the Ministry of Trade in order to maintain supplies to meet domestic demand and to encourage domestic processing of certain raw materials. Items affected by such ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 118 INDONESIA With quotas Export taxes controls include clove seeds, logs, fertilizer, cement, construction reinforcements of iron, automobile tires, paper, asphalt, stearin, cattle, salt, wheat flour, maize, soybeans, rice, copra, olein, raw rattan, meat, and all goods produced from subsidized raw materials. Concern about domestic price stability sometimes leads to suspension of exports of various items in this category. Manioc (cassava) may be exported only by approved exporters. Textiles and textile products subject to import quotas in the consuming countries may be exported only by approved textile exporters, who may transfer their allocated quotas to other approved exporters through the Commodity Exchange Board. Export taxes ranging from $250 to $4,800 a cubic meter are applied to sawed and proc- essed timber. Exports of logs are subject to taxes ranging from $500 to $4,800 a cubic meter. Certain processed wood products are not taxed. Certain other products are sub- ject to export taxes ranging from 5% to 30%. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The purchase of shares in the country by nonresidents is limited to a maximum of 49% of total shares issued by an individual company listed on the Indonesian Stock Ex- change. According to the Capital Market Act No. 8/1995, both resident or nonresident issuers have to comply with the public offering requirements as stated in the Act. There is no explicit restriction on the public offering by nonresidents of their own securities on the Indonesian market. There is no restriction applied to the sale or issue of shares abroad by residents as long as those shares are not listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange. If those securities are listed on the Indonesian Stock Exchange, they initially should comply with the Capital Market Act, especially on public offering, and Ministry of Finance Decree No. 1055/KMK.0.13/1989 concerning the maximum percentage of foreign ownership of shares. Indonesian companies do not issue shares, but they issue American Depository Receipts (ADRs) in the U.S. capital market and Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) on the London Stock Exchange. No person may purchase more than 1% of any fund. The sale or issue of collective investment securities on local markets by nonresidents or the transfer abroad of the proceeds associated with sales of these issues are not prohib- ited, as long as such sales comply with Indonesian laws and regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents INDONESIA 119 The sale and issue of collective instruments securities abroad by Indonesian residents must comply with laws and regulations in the country where the issues are organized and the country to whose citizens it is sold: (1) if a collective investment vehicle is organized in Indonesia, it must be licensed in Indonesia and comply with Indonesian laws and regulations; (2) if such a vehicle is organized offshore and sold to non- Indonesians, it does not require compliance with Indonesian regulations; and (3) if it is organized offshore and sold in Indonesia, it must be licensed in Indonesia and comply with all Indonesian rules and regulations. Banks may deal with derivative transactions as long as they are associated with foreign exchange and interest rates. However, derivative transactions in equities are only al- lowed with prior permission from the BI on a case-by-case basis. Derivative transac- tions other than these specific kinds of transactions are prohibited. In the case of trans- actions by residents, banks are obliged to enter into a written agreement with their clients and explain the risks involved. Losses over 10% of their capital must be re- ported to the BI. The regulation on derivative transactions has been issued by the BI through Decree No. 28/119/DEP/DIR dated December 29, 1995. Foreign exchange banks may deal with derivative transactions as long as they are associated with foreign exchange and interest rates. However, derivative transactions in equities are only allowed with prior permission from the BI on a case-by-case basis. Derivative transactions other than these specific kind of transactions are prohibited. Sale or issue abroad by residents See previous entry above. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents In general, there are no restrictions on the granting of commercial credits by residents (excluding banks) to nonresident entities. Resident entities, especially in the nonbank private sector, are not restricted from receiving offshore borrowing from nonresidents. However, based on Presidential Decree No. 39/1991, they have to submit periodic reports to the Commercial Offshore Loan Team (COLT) of the BI on the implementation of the foreign commercial borrowings that they have obtained. The following commercial borrowings are subject to authorization by the COLT: (1) borrowings related to development projects using nonrecourse, limited recourse, advance payment, trustee borrowing, leasing, and similar financing; (2) borrowings related to development projects with financing based on build-operate-transfer, build and transfer, and similar schemes; and (3) borrowings related to the government or a state company (including State Bank of Pertamina) in the form of government equity participation, guarantee for provision of feed stock supply, guarantee for products offtaker, or any relation in any form whatsoever. In general, there are no restrictions on the granting of financial credits by residents (excluding banks) to nonresident entities. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Since March 18, 1996, residents are allowed to provide sureties and guarantees to non- resident entities only under the following conditions: (1) when there is sufficient con- traguarantee from a bona fide overseas bank (excluding overseas branches of the rele- vant bank), and (2) when there is cash deposit valued at 100% of the guarantee granted. Several sectors are restricted: (1) foreign investment companies in infrastructure projects, such as sea ports, generation, transmission and distribution of electricity for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 120 INDONESIA public use, telecommunications, shipping, airlines, potable water supply, public railways, and nuclear electric power generation, should be established by way of joint venture between foreign and Indonesian partners, and the share of the Indonesian partner should be at least 5% of the total capital issued when the company is started; and (2) a foreign investment company may be established as a straight investment, which means that 100% of the shares may be owned by a foreign citizens and/or entities. However, some of the company's shares must be sold to Indonesian citizens and/or entities through direct placement and/or indirectly through the domestic capital market no later than 15 years after commencement of commercial operations. Foreign ownership of direct investment must begin to be divested by the eleventh year of production. For investments above $50 million, divestment of 50% must be com- pleted within 20 years. For smaller investments, the divestment requirement is less stringent. All foreign enterprises are eligible to receive preferential customs duty treatment for imports of required raw materials for the first two years of production activity. Raw materials may be imported with no time limit. In addition, an enterprise exporting more than 65% of its production is free to hire foreign experts as needed to maintain its ex- port commitments. Investors are granted the right to repatriate capital, to transfer profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indonesia), and to make transfers relating to ex- penses connected with the employment of foreign nationals in Indonesia and relating to depreciation allowances. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repatriation as long as investment benefits from tax relief are being received; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. According to Agrarian Law No. 5 of 1960, nonresidents are only allowed to buy land with the land title status "the right to use land (Hak Pakai)". Nonresidents are not allowed to buy real estate since the land title of real estate in Indonesia is "the right to build on land (RGB)". Also, according to the Presidential Decree No. 31/1995, non- residents are permitted to engage in inward direct investment in local real estate, but are not permitted to purchase local real estate. Controls on l iqu ida t ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Foreign exchange banks are subject to BI directives with respect to borrowing abroad. A COLT (consisting of the State Secretary, the ministers of all economic portfolios, and the governor of the BI), established in September 1991, supervises all foreign com- mercial loan transactions. The prior approval of the team is required before any public enterprise, commercial bank, or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Resident banks or credit institutions, specifically the ones that deal with international trade and financial activities, are allowed to borrow abroad within a limit. An annual borrowing ceiling is imposed by the BI for foreign commercial borrowing of more than two years maturity. In addition, the prospective borrowers obtain COLT decisions for queuing on the international capital market from the COLT before soliciting for such borrowings. Moreover, banks may receive foreign commercial borrowing with maturities of no more than two years on a bilateral basis without prior approval from the BI, but the banks should maintain the total amount of such borrowing to a maximum of 30% of bank's capital. Trade finances such as issuance of letters of credit, red clause letters of credit, supplier's credit, and buyer's credit with maturity not exceeding one year, are not con- sidered borrowings requiring approval from the COLT. Foreign commercial borrowings received by financial company institutions, such as a leasing company, factoring com- pany, and consumer finance company, may not exceed five times the company's net worth less its equity share. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 121 Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Banks are not allowed to grant loans or financial and commercial credits, neither in rupiah nor foreign exchange, to nonresidents, including those accepting authorization from residents to obtain credit. Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Interest rate controls Credit controls Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign exchange, subject to the requirement that 80% of the foreign exchange loans must be provided for export activity. Banks can also purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange, subject to the re- quirement that the securities must be investment grade and should not be issued by their groups. To do this, banks should take into account other exchange regulations, namely the regulation on net open position (NOP) aimed at prudential control, with the limits as follows: (1) the average of total NOP, both on and off balance sheet, in a week must not exceed 25% of the bank's capital; and (2) the average NOP of off balance sheet in a week must not exceed 25% of the bank's capital. This is however limited by open position limits. Banks are free to set their interest rates on both deposits and loans. In the case of taxes, revenues gained from the interest of nonresident deposit accounts are taxed at 20% or at a percentage stipulated on the tax agreement between the government of Indonesia and the government of a nonresident entity, while the revenues gained from the interest of resident deposit accounts are taxed at 15%. Foreign exchange banks are required to allocate at least 60% of all foreign exchange credits to export-oriented businesses that earn foreign exchange. Banks must maintain the NOP of foreign exchange within the following limits: (1) the average of total NOP, both on and off balance sheet, in a week must not exceed 25% of the bank's capital, and (2) the average NOP off balance sheet in a week must not ex- ceed 25% of the bank's capital. Insurance and reinsurance companies licensed in Indonesia are not allowed to invest abroad except for private placement in companies conducting insurance business over- seas (such as insurance companies, reinsurance companies, insurance brokers, loss adjusters, and the like). According to Article 7 of Decree No. 224 concerning financial soundness of insurance and reinsurance companies, the excess of liabilities denominated in foreign currency over admitted assets denominated in foreign currency may not exceed 10% of share- holders' equity. Other controls imposed by securities laws Foreign investors as a group may purchase up to 49% of the authorized and outstanding shares of an Indonesian company that has had a public offering. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange Arrangement The currency of Ireland is the Irish pound. No. Unitary. Ireland participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this mechanism, Ireland maintains spot exchange rates between the Irish pound and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Banks are free to provide forward exchange facilities. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions No. No. No. No. Restrictions regarding the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) and Serb-controlled areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina were suspended in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1022 of November 22, 1995. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Restrictions were imposed on financial transfers in respect of Iraq in August 1990, and in respect of Libya in December 1993. Restrictions regarding Haiti were revoked in December 1994. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. 123 Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. These are accounts blocked in accordance with UN sanctions. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses with quotas For reasons of national policy, imports of certain goods (for example, specified drugs, explosives, and firearms and ammunition) are prohibited without special licenses. Imports of certain goods (including textiles, steel, footwear, and ceramic products) originating in certain non-EU countries are subject to either quantitative restrictions or surveillance measures. Imports from non-EU countries of products covered by the CAP are subject to a system of access quotas. Import taxes and/or tariffs The EU system of customs duties apply to imports. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 124 IRELAND Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. No. Export licenses Export taxes Exports of dual-use goods to both EU and non-EU countries may require export licenses. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds f rom Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Investment by foreign-controlled enterprises does not require authorization except for some sectors subject to special conditions. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position as of December 3J, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: September 21,1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Israel is the new sheqel (plural new sheqalim). No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the new sheqel is managed with regard to a basket of currencies comprising the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar. The market exchange rate fluctuates within margins of ± 7% around the midpoint rate in response to market forces and intervention policy. Since December 17, 1991, both the midpoint and the band have been adjusted gradually at a daily rate ("slope" of the band) that reflects the annual difference between the domestic inflation target and the projected inflation in the main trading partners. The slope of the band has been 6% on an annual basis, since July 26, 1993. No. No. Forward exchange transactions between foreign currencies are permitted. Transactions in futures and options, including traded contracts, on foreign currencies, foreign inter- est rates, commodities, and securities prices by both resident companies and individu- als are allowed. However, resident firms may only enter such contracts in order to cover commercial risks arising from permitted transactions; transactions in commodi- ties may only be entered into in order to cover risks; and transactions, other than in traded contracts, must be done against an authorized dealer bank, or, through it, against a foreign bank or broker. Forward transactions in new sheqalim may only be conducted for hedging purposes provided that the transaction is carried out with an authorized dealer in foreign exchange and up to a period of one month. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange control is the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange; it is ad- ministered by the Bank of Israel (BOI), in cooperation with other government agencies and is carried out through authorized banks that are permitted to deal in foreign ex- change; other institutions (e.g., securities brokers and foreign exchange dealers) pos- sess, or may obtain, a limited license to deal in foreign exchange. Payments arrears No. 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 126 ISRAEL Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents are allowed to import and export gold, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade, and to transact in gold bullion and coins. Gold certificates are treated as foreign securities. Resident travelers may take out Israeli banknotes not exceeding the equivalent of $200 a person a trip. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel are permitted to take out Israeli banknotes up to the equivalent of $100, and to repurchase, through an authorized dealer at the port of departure, foreign currency up to the equivalent of $500. Nonresidents may purchase foreign currency on presentation of documents showing previous conversion of foreign currency into Israeli currency, with a limit for each visit of $5,000 a person over 18 years and of $2,000 a person under 18 years (a temporary leave of less than two weeks during the visit does not affect the person's right). Only commercial banks are authorized to export foreign currency to foreign banks. On imports No. Eligibility to hold accounts Natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. There are two main types of accounts: (1) Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts (PAMAH). The period during which foreign currency may be held in a resident trans- ferred position (PAMAH) was extended from 14 to 30 days. Export proceeds and uni- lateral transfers directly received from abroad, as well as unused travel allowances, may be deposited in these accounts. The liquidity requirements are 6% for a current account and 3% for a time deposit account with a maturity of up to one year, and zero for a time deposit account with a maturity exceeding one year. Resident restitution deposit accounts may be maintained under PAMAH. These accounts may be held only by recipients of restitution payments or certain disability pensions. The liquidity re- quirement for these accounts was 25.5% on December 31, 1995 (it has been gradually and automatically reduced at a fixed monthly rate since November 1991 when the rate was 90%). Funds deposited in these accounts are tax free and may be used up to a limit of $1,800 for additional travel allowances; (2) Exempt Resident Deposit Accounts. Certain residents (mostly immigrants) may deposit funds brought from abroad in these accounts. Certain regulations stipulate the types of funds that may be deposited in these accounts. Balances on these accounts may be freely transferred abroad, hi addition, a resident may open a deposit account linked to a foreign currency (PATZAM) with a maturity period of not less than one month. Approval required Held abroad No. Yes. Approval required Certain residents (mostly immigrants) may hold accounts abroad. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Nonresident Accounts 127 Eligibility to hold accounts Natural and juridical persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Account holders may freely effect transfers from their foreign currency account and may also convert funds held in the account into local currency at the market exchange rate. There are no restrictions on the opening of convertible local currency accounts by nonresidents; funds in these accounts may be used in permitted transactions, including transfers between nonresidents. Approval required Domestic currency accounts No. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Deposits linked to foreign currency or the CPI are not convertible. Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports Advance payments requirement Advance payments for imports of goods to be supplied within one year are allowed. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Other nontariff measures Banks automatically grant foreign exchange to pay for authorized imports when the relevant documents (import documents, bills of lading, and letters of credit) are pre- sented. Foreign exchange is also provided automatically for repayment of suppliers' credits. Importers are allowed to use foreign currency proceeds of loans obtained abroad directly for import payments without first depositing the funds with an author- ized Israeli bank. With the exception of agricultural products, imports are free of quantitative restric- tions. A special regime applies to imports from countries that restrict or prohibit im- ports from Israel. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be received within 12 months of the date of export. Proceeds may be held in a PAMAH account or sold to authorized banks. However, exporters may retain in a bank account abroad up to 10% of export proceeds received over the previous 12-month period and use the funds to pay for imports and other authorized payments abroad. In cases where the exporter is a firm with limited liabili- ties, the amount allowed to be deposited in a bank account abroad is also part of the overall limit on the portfolio investment abroad of the firm. For inputs directly im- ported by an exporter, there is a system of rebates of customs duties, wharf charges, and other related charges. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 128 Export licenses Export taxes ISRAEL Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of oil and certain defense equipment require licensing. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Foreign exchange for payments on account on invisibles, including tourism expenses, is provided automatically upon proof of the nature of the transaction. Some indicative limits, however, apply. Freight/insurance Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Commissions Interest payments Profit/dividends Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Up to $7,000 a person a trip in cash, traveler's checks, and cash withdrawals on credit cards. Additional cash allowances may be granted on request. Residents holding PAMAH restitution accounts may withdraw an additional amount of $1,800. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits No. A resident going abroad for medical treatment who requires hospitalization is permitted to pay up to the equivalent of $30,000 in advance. While abroad, he is permitted to pay the remainder of expenses on submission of receipts. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits No. The exchange allowance for students studying at institutions of higher education abroad is $1,000 a month in addition to tuition expenses. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. No. No. No. No. Residents may make support or gift remittances of up to $2,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 129 Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval is limited to purchasing tourist services abroad. Residents, while in Israel, are permitted to make credit card payments abroad, of up to $5,500 a year. The limit for cash withdrawals is $7,000 a trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Exchange proceeds from invisibles may, in general, be kept in foreign exchange in PAMAH accounts or sold to authorized banks. For 30 years after entering Israel, immi- grants are exempt from the requirement to surrender their foreign exchange to author- ized banks, and they may hold these foreign currencies freely with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. Restrictions are in accordance with general rules pertaining to the use of foreign cur- rency. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Nonresidents may purchase any security traded on the stock exchange. Proceeds may be freely transferred. Households may purchase freely securities abroad provided the security is listed on an exchange or issued by a government. Both the exchange and the government that issues the securities must be of one of the countries listed in the First Schedule of the General Permit (the list includes the U.S., Canada, most of Western Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Singapore). The business sector may purchase securities abroad under the same conditions as households but with a limit (up to 5% of sales or 10% of capital). All transactions and transfer of funds abroad must usually be conducted through an authorized dealer in foreign exchange (usually a bank). The proceeds of these issues must usually be transferred to Israel. Special permits are provided for holding the issues abroad. The transfer of funds required to service the security issues is allowed. Purchase in the country by nonresidents Nonresidents may purchase money market instruments traded on the stock exchange (such as treasury bills). Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Households may purchase freely money market instruments that are traded on an ex- change abroad. The business sector may purchase market instruments abroad with a limit (percent of sales or capital). Residents may issue money market instruments that are traded on an exchange abroad. The proceeds of these issues must usually be transferred to Israel; however, special permits for holding these proceeds abroad are granted to all issuers. The transfer of funds required to service the security issues is allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 130 ISRAEL On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Nonresidents may purchase certificates of participation in mutual funds. Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase certificates of deposit in provident funds. The sale or issue of collective instrument securities on local markets is allowed pro- vided that the securities are traded on the stock market. However, the issue of such securities requires authorization from the authorities. Households may buy certificates of participation in mutual funds that are either traded on an exchange or authorized by the appropriate authority in the issuing country. The business sector may purchase such certificates within a limit. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issue of collective instrument securities abroad by residents is not allowed. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Residents may purchase derivatives and other securities abroad. However, the business sector is restricted to hedging, while households may purchase for both hedging and for speculation. Residents may purchase derivatives and other securities abroad. However, the business sector is restricted to hedging, while households may purchase for both hedging and for speculation. Residents may grant commercial credit to nonresidents up to a period of one year. In the case of capital goods, long-term credit may also be granted. Nonbanks are generally not allowed to grant financial credit to nonresidents; there are two exceptions: an Israeli company may grant financial credit to its subsidiary abroad (provided it holds at least 5% of its equity), and an Israeli company controlled by a nonresident (at least 75% of its shares) may grant credit to the nonresident up to the amount of the equity held by this nonresident (requires a permit). Direct loans from nonresidents to Israeli residents are not restricted. A resident may provide sureties, guarantees, or financial backup facilities to a nonresi- dent if they are related to a permitted transaction. Guarantees may also be granted to an agent in an export transaction. The business sector (active corporations) is allowed to invest freely in direct invest- ments. Only active incorporated Israeli companies are permitted to undertake direct investment abroad (e.g., in subsidiaries and real estate) without any quantitative limit on the size of the investment and to hold foreign securities and deposits (exporters only) abroad, provided that the investment does not amount to more than 10% of its equity or 5% of their sales turnover, whichever is larger. Individuals are not allowed to make such investments. Nonresidents may repatriate the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct foreign investment if the original source of the investment was foreign currency or a nonresi- dent local currency account. Purchase abroad by residents Only the business sector is permitted to purchase real estate abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL 131 Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements The same reserve ratios apply to all bank accounts, both resident and nonresident, de- nominated in foreign or local currency. Interest is currently paid only on reserve re- quirements that are due to nonresident foreign currency accounts. All foreign currency accounts (resident and nonresident) are subject to additional "secondary" reserve ratios (half of which must be deposited with the central bank in an interest paying account). Open foreign exchange position limits There are limits on the open foreign currency positions of banks. The size of the limit for each bank is a proportion of the bank's equity (with a minimum position size granted to small banks) and the limits are applied on the basis of weekly averages. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Regular mutual funds may invest up to 10% of their assets in securities abroad. Special mutual funds intended for investing abroad may invest up to 50% of their assets abroad. Mutual funds intended for nonresidents may invest up to 75% of their assets abroad. Provident funds may invest up to 2% of their assets abroad in recognized for- eign securities. Pension funds and insurance companies are not allowed to invest abroad. Income and profits earned in foreign currency by institutional investors from these investments, including capital gains, are taxed at the rate of 35%. Other controls imposed by securities laws Foreign underwriters must comply with the same criteria as those of domestic under- writers as stated by the Securities Law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position as of December 31.1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Italy is the Italian lira. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the lira is determined on the basis of supply and demand. The Italian authorities generally do not intervene in the exchange market. Rates for 20 for- eign currencies are monitored every working day by the Bank of Italy (BOI) exclusively for informational purposes. On September 17, 1992, Italy suspended its exchange rate intervention obligations of the EMS. No. No. Premiums and discounts in the forward exchange market are normally left to the inter- play of market forces. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Settlements with foreign countries are normally made in quoted currencies or in lire on foreign accounts. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Other payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Italy maintains clearing accounts with Croatia and Slovenia. The accounts are used for trade in cross-border areas. The balances in these accounts may be used only to finance trade between certain districts of Croatia and Slovenia and the Italian provinces of Trieste and Gorizia. The balances are not transferable. There is no automatic mecha- nism through which outstanding balances are settled within 90 days. Only Italy is al- lowed to maintain a debit balance on these accounts. Residents are allowed to conduct foreign exchange transactions freely, with settlements to be effected either through authorized intermediaries (BOI, authorized banks, and the Postal Administration) or directly, by drawing on external accounts or by offsetting debts and credits vis-a-vis other residents or nonresidents. Operators and authorized intermediaries must, for statistical purposes, transmit data to the Italian Foreign Ex- change Office on their foreign transactions that exceed the equivalent of Lit 20 million by filling out a foreign exchange statistical return. Italy notified the IMF on August 28, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes ITALY 133 Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). The above restrictions have been suspended according to UN Security Resolutions 1021 and 1022 of November 22, 1995. Similar restrictions are in force against Iraq, Libya, and the movement UNTTA in Angola. No. No. Purchases and sales of gold abroad are legally reserved for the monetary authorities. Residents may purchase and import unrefined gold under ministerial license for indus- trial purposes. Loans for the importation of gold are freely assumable. The exportation of unrefined gold is subject to licensing by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The impor- tation and exportation of gold coins, including coins that are legal tender in a foreign country, are unrestricted. Imports of unrefined gold are not subject to VAT tax, whereas imports of gold coins are subject to a VAT tax at 19%. In the case of material delivery of means of payment in Italy or abroad, Italian residents are allowed to take with them into or out of the country Italian or foreign banknotes and bearer securities of any denomination up to the equivalent of Lit 20 million. For fiscal and anti-money-laundering purposes, transfers exceeding this amount must be carried out through authorized intermediaries. Residents are allowed to enter and leave the country carrying securities denominated in lire or in foreign currencies worth Lit 20 million, provided that they are not bearer securities and that they are declared to customs. Nonresidents may take up to Lit 20 million in banknotes and securities of any denomination into and out of Italy without formalities. If they bring in banknotes and securities in an amount in excess of Lit 20 million, they must declare the excess amount to customs on a special form upon entering Italy. Nonresidents may reexport larger sums but only up to the amount in excess of Lit 20 million that they have im- ported and declared. No limit applies to exports of nonbearer securities; nonresidents need only submit the above-mentioned form to customs. The limitations described above do not apply to transfers effected by banks when they act as senders or beneficiaries. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 134 ITALY Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Those accounts affected in compliance with UN Security Council Resolutions. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports are governed by EC regulations according to which imports of most products, except for textiles and some products originating from China, are free of licensing and quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EU countries of most products covered by the CAP are subject to variable import levies, which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Common EU regulations are also applied to imports of most other agricul- tural and livestock products from non-EU countries. Payments for imports are not regulated, beyond the general rules cited in Administration of Control, above. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to non-EU countries are free with the exception of high-technology products included in EC Regulation 3381/94 and of oil extracted from the seabed, which are subject to ministerial authorization. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 135 Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities On money market instruments On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions However, the issue by EU residents of UCITS (Undertakings for Collective Invest- ments in Transferable Securities) that are of EU origin and comply with EC Directive 85/611/EC; and the sale of collective investment securities where concluded strictly through private negotiations, are allowed. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition A capital ratio of 8% of the position applies. At least 80% of liabilities in any currency must be matched with assets in the same currency except if the assets to be held in that currency do not exceed 7% of total assets. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: April 1,1964. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Japan is the Japanese yen. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Japanese yen is determined on the basis of supply and de- mand. However, the authorities intervene when necessary in order to counter disorderly conditions in the markets. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. No. No. Forward exchange contracts may be negotiated against foreign currencies quoted on the Tokyo exchange market and in other major international foreign exchange markets. There are no officially set rates in the forward market, and forward exchange transac- tions are based on free market rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements No. No. No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions The exchange and trade control system is operated mainly by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, and the Bank of Japan (BOJ) acting as the government's agent. Most of the authority for verifying normal payments is, how- ever, delegated to authorized banks, referred to as foreign exchange banks. Import- and export-reporting requirements are handled by the the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Imports from Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), Iraq, and Libya require permission from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. For transactions that involve payments from Japan to residents of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), Iraq, and Libya or by residents of these countries to foreign countries through Japan, permission from the Ministry of Finance is required. Intermediary trade of petroleum and its products destined for Angola require permission from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. All other payments for invisibles from Japan to residents of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/ Montenegro), Iraq, and Libya require permission from the ministry. Exports to Croatia, 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 137 Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), Iraq, and Libya require permission from the ministry. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency The exportation of domestic banknotes exceeding ¥5 million requires ministerial approval. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. Overseas deposits by residents up to the equivalent of ¥100 million are not restricted. Qualified Japanese enterprises in insurance, transportation, and securities are permit- ted to maintain overseas deposits under blanket licensing. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. E l ig ib i l ity to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. Yes. Payment of interest on balances in such accounts may be restricted when it is deemed necessary to prevent drastic fluctuations in the exchange rate of the yen. No. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments The Import Restriction System covers 77 items (four-digit Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System (HS) base), which are subject to import restrictions falling under the state trading, national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT. For the restricted items, once importers obtain authorization from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, they receive an import quota certificate that entitles them to receive an import license from an authorized foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 138 JAPAN exchange bank automatically upon application. For the importation of certain other goods from certain countries or shipping areas, individual authorization must be obtained from the ministry. Import settlements effected under the special methods (i.e., those effected by means of open accounts or those involving payments made more than two years before import declaration or after more than two years of shipment) require authorization from the ministry. Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Export restraint may be exercised by virtue of the Export and Import Transactions Law and the Export Trade Control Order issued under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law. Export restraint may be applied either globally or to certain desti- nations, and it may cover export volume, export prices, or other conditions. At the end of 1993, voluntary restraints were applied to exports of certain textile items to the United States and the EU, to exports of passenger cars to the United States, and to exports of forklift trucks to the EU. In addition, exports of some other products, includ- ing passenger cars, light commercial vehicles, and videocassette recorders to the EU, were subject to monitoring by the government. At the end of 1995, 27 export cartels were operating under the provisions of the Export and Import Transactions Law. In addition, 228 items were subject to a license under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law to control their exportation to specified destinations either because of short supply in the domestic market (e.g., nickel) or to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., certain textiles). Exports under processing contracts and exports for which settlements are effected under the special methods described above require authorization from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Exports of specified raw materials for foreign processing and reimportation require individual licenses. Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Yes. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 139 Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Capital transactions, in principle, can be conducted freely unless certain procedures are specifically required. Such procedures may take the form of requiring: (1) prior ap- proval; (2) prior notice with a waiting period, during which the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of International Trade and Industry may request or order that the transac- tion be suspended or that its particulars be modified on the basis of prescribed criteria; or (3) prior notice without a waiting period. Acquisition of securities for portfolios may be made freely through designated securities firms, and foreign exchange banks and designated institutional investors may freely acquire securities for portfolio invest- ments. However, acquisition of such securities through securities firms other than the designated ones and borrowings by residents require prior notice without a waiting period. The restriction applies only to yen-denominated securities issued abroad, which cannot be resold to Japanese residents until after the expiration of a 90-day waiting period and yen-related dual currency bonds issued abroad, which cannot be resold to Japanese residents until after the expiration of a 180-day waiting period. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The restriction applies only to yen-denominated securities issued abroad, which cannot be resold to Japanese residents until after the expiration of a two-week waiting period. On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents No. No. No. Outward investments by residents in the form of loans are subject to prior notice with a 20-day waiting period. Transactions requiring prior notice with a 20-day waiting period may be subject to suspension or modification by the Ministry of Finance if, in the Minister's opinion, the transaction might adversely affect: (1) international financial markets or Japan's international credit standing; (2) domestic and financial capital mar- kets; (3) business activities of a sector of Japanese industries or the smooth perform- ance of the national economy; and (4) implementation of Japan's international agree- ments, international peace and security, or the maintenance of public order. The minis- try may shorten the waiting period when the transaction under consideration is deemed without adverse consequences. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment A distinction is made between direct investments in Japan and other capital transac- tions. Besides majority equity ownership of enterprises or establishment of branch operations, investments that come under the direct investment regulations include: (1) any acquisition of shares in unlisted companies; (2) acquisition by a foreign inves- tor of the shares of a listed company (including individual companies for which the stock price in over-the-counter transactions is made public by the Securities Dealers Association) that reach 10% or more when added to those owned by related persons; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 140 JAPAN and (3) acquisition of loans of more than one-year maturity or securities privately placed in Japan, under certain circumstances. Any change of business objectives of a company with one-third or more foreign owner- ship is also subject to the direct investment provisions. Requests or orders for suspen- sion or modification of specific aspects of the transaction may be made if the minister or ministers concerned consider the transaction to have adverse implications for na- tional security, public order, public safety, the activities of Japanese enterprises in re- lated lines of activities, the general performance of the economy, or the maintenance of mutual equality of treatment of direct investment with other countries. In April 1991, an amendment to the law governing foreign direct investment was introduced. Under the revised law, foreign investors are required to report only after undertaking invest- ment unless concerns mentioned above, such as national security interest arise. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange (1) A ceiling on the investment by credit cooperatives in foreign-currency-denominated bonds, excluding corporate bonds issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30% of their net worth; and (2) a ceiling of 5% of assets for investment in foreign-currency-denominated securities by the loan trust accounts of trust banks. Foreign loans by banks are legally subject to prior notice with a waiting period but, in most cases, may be made upon notification. The banks are free to lend yen on a long- term basis overseas to borrowers of their choice and may accept foreign currency de- posits from residents and nonresidents and make foreign currency loans to residents. This lending requires permission, except when the lender is an authorized foreign ex- change bank. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Purchases of these securities from a resident requires permission; but purchases from nonresidents is subject to a prior notification requirement. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad (1) A limit on the holding by insurance companies of securities issued by nonresidents equivalent to 30% of total assets; (2) the same ratio applied to purchases of foreign- currency-denominated assets; (3) a limit on the holdings by the Post Office Insurance Fund of bonds equivalent to 20% of the reserve funds issued by nonresidents; and (4) a ceiling on foreign-currency-denominated assets purchased by pension funds equivalent to 30% of pension trust assets (for the new money deposited from April 1, 1990, effective December 27, 1991, the ceiling was relaxed to 50% on the basis of each institutional account, and the ceiling for foreign-affiliated companies was raised to 70%). Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKSTAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIE Date of acceptance: July 16,1996. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kazakstan is the Tenge. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Tenge against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies is determined at auctions that are held three times a week at the Kazakstan Interbank Currency Exchange (KICE). The official exchange rate is determined on the basis of auction rates and is announced each Friday by the National Bank of Kazakstan (NBK). Official rates for more than 30 other currencies are set on the basis of the Tenge-dollar rates in the auction and the cross rates in international markets. Banks may participate in auctions on their own account or on behalf of their clients. In between auctions, banks and enterprises are permitted to engage at spot and cash transactions at freely negotiated rates. Purchases of foreign exchange are subject to a commission of 0.02% fixed by the Board of the KICE. There are more than 2,000 licensed exchange bureaus. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements No. Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Settlements with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU are made through a system of correspondent accounts of the NBK and commercial banks. Other payments arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The NBK controls exchange transactions, supervises authorized banks, regulates open foreign exchange positions, and has the authority to reintroduce surrender require- ments. The Ministry of Finance supervises the issuing of a limited number of import and ex- port licenses, monitors transactions in precious metals and stones, monitors capital transactions, i.e., external debt, and supervises the payment of export and import du- ties. Authorized banks are agents for monetary control. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 142 KAZAKSTAN Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade All gold produced in Kazakstan must first be offered on the primary market, where the NBK and the Ministry of Finance have the first right to sell and buy. Thereafter, the gold can be sold on the secondary market, including international markets. Licensed banks are also allowed to participate in the primary market. Controls on external trade Until the primary market was established, the NBK alone could export and import gold. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Yes. Yes. Resident individuals and enterprises may maintain convertible foreign exchange ac- counts at authorized banks. These accounts, which bear interest, may be credited with retained export earnings and foreign exchange transferred from abroad, and balances in these accounts may be freely used for any purpose. Residents may also maintain convertible currency accounts abroad with permission from the NBK. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. Yes. Nonresidents may hold "T accounts" used for servicing export-import operations, "I accounts" for investment activities, and nonresident accounts for natural persons. Funds in I accounts can be used to sell or buy foreign exchange and thus repatriate profits with some restrictions. Approval required Yes. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advances of more than 30% of the value of imported goods and services require per- mission from the NBK. Advance payments requirement Prepayment before 180 days requires permission from the NBK. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KAZAKSTAN 143 Advance import deposits No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs For health and safety reasons, the importation of 11 product groups is prohibited. Trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU is con- ducted through financially independent state trading organizations as well as other trading organizations. Trade with other countries is effected through a system of inter- governmental agreements, quotas, and licenses. Import duty rates for most products fall in the range of 5% to 30%, with a 50% rate for pearls, gems, precious and semiprecious stones, and a maximum rate of 100% for alco- holic drinks, weapons, and ammunition. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly The monopoly rights of 14 state trading agencies were canceled in February 1995. Repatriation requirements The same regulations as for proceeds from invisible transactions apply. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes No. A negative list based on security reasons requires export licenses for nine commodity groups. Yes. Export duty rates range up to 25% for 27 major product groups, including military equipment. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Commissions Interest payments Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval No. No. No. No. No. Yes. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 144 KAZAKSTAN Quantitative limits The limit is $500 a person; there are no limits on withdrawals from convertible currency accounts for the same purpose. Business travel is, in principle, subject to country-specific limits, but these are not officially enforced. Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Subscriptions and membership fees Consulting/legal fees Foreign workers' wages Pensions No. No. No. No. No. No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements The repatriation ratio is 100% unless the NBK and the Ministry of Finance issue a license. Repatriation should be effected before 180 or 30 days of the transaction. Trans- fers of foreign currency to accounts of authorized banks must be done within 10 days after payment is made. Surrender requirements No. Controls on direct investment Capital transactions between residents and nonresidents require approval from the NBK. Capital Transactions Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Both residents and nonresidents are permitted to own land, but nonresidents cannot own agricultural land. Open foreign exchange position limits The open position in one currency is limited to 30% of a bank's capital, and the total open position is limited to 50% of a bank's capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position as of July 31,1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: June 30, 1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Kenya is the Kenya shilling. No. Unitary. The exchange rate is determined in the interbank market. Foreign exchange bureaus are authorized to deal in cash and buy foreign traveler's checks. The official exchange rate is set at the previous days average market rate. The U.S. dollar is the principal intervention currency. The official exchange rate applies only to government and gov- ernment-guaranteed external debt-service payments and to government imports for which there is a specific budget allocation. No. No. Commercial banks are authorized to enter into forward exchange contracts with their customers at market-determined exchange rates in currencies of their choice. There are no limits on the amount or period of cover. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities No. No. No. On December 29, 1995, the Exchange Control Act was repealed. The Central Bank Act was amended on the same date, giving the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) powers to license and regulate foreign exchange transactions. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Kenya is negotiating to reschedule arrears amounting to $72 million that accrued to commercial banks prior to end-1993. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of banknotes exceeding K Sh 300,000 must be reported to customs for statistical purposes only. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 146 On imports Foreign currency KENYA The importation of banknotes exceeding $5,000 must be declared to customs for statis- tical purposes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Kenyan residents who have foreign exchange earnings are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with local banks without limitations. Approval required No. Held abroad Enterprises operating in export processing zones are permitted to hold foreign currency accounts abroad or with authorized banks in Kenya and may use the balances on these accounts to pay business-related expenses. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Other Foreigners with work permits in Kenya may open foreign currency accounts with Ken- yan banks and may credit their local earnings to these accounts whose utilization is not restricted. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments No. No. Authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for the clearance of im- ports until they receive a clean report of findings for imports with a f.o.b. value of more than $500. Additionally, all goods purchased by importers in Kenya must be insured with companies licensed to conduct business in Kenya. The inspection is required for all imports with a f.o.b. value of more than $1,000. These are subject to inspection for quality, quantity, and price, and require a clean report of findings. A copy of the import declaration, a final invoice, and a copy of the customs entry must be submitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA 147 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list The list includes a few items for health, security, and environmental reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Exports and Export Proceeds Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Coffee, tea, and horticultural produce may be exported only if a sales contract is regis- tered with the Coffee Board, Tea Board, and Horticultural Crops Development Author- ity, respectively. Exports of minerals, precious stones, and other essential strategic materials are also subject to special licensing. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are allowed to purchase a maximum of 40% of shares of primary or sec- ondary issues. A nonresident cannot purchase more than 5% of the total of secondary or primary issues. There is no restriction on the sale of securities by nonresidents. However, issuance of securities by nonresidents require prior approval from the Capital Markets Authority (CMA). Sale or issue abroad by residents Sale or issue of securities abroad by residents requires prior approval from the CMA. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no restriction on sales, but the issuing requires prior approval from the CBK. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 148 KENYA Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale or issuance of money market instruments abroad by residents requires prior approval by the CBK. On collective investment securities The same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents CBK's approval is required for these transactions. Sale or issue abroad by residents CBK's approval is required for these transactions. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions No. No. No. Purchase locally by nonresidents Purchases are subject to government approval. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange exposure is limited to a maximum of 3% of paid-up capital (assigned). Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA (Position as of June 30, 1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vffl Date of Acceptance: November 1, 1988. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Korea is the Korean won. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Korean won against the U.S. dollar is determined on the basis of the weighted average of interbank rates for the Korean won-U.S. dollar spot transactions of the previous day. During each business day, the Korean won rate against the U.S. dollar in the interbank market is allowed to fluctuate within margins of ±2.5% against the average market rate of the previous day. No. No. Foreign exchange banks may conduct forward transactions, futures transactions, swaps, and options between foreign currencies, as well as between the Korean won and for- eign currencies. There are no specific restrictions on the terms of forward contracts in respect of interbank transactions. However, the terms of forward contracts between foreign exchange banks and nonbank customers must be based on a bona fide transac- tion, with the exception of those subject to specific restrictions. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All settlements between Korea and other countries may be made in any convertible currency except the Korean won. Residents are permitted to carry out current transac- tions denominated in Korean won, provided that remittances will be made in foreign currencies. For this purpose, nonresidents are allowed to open settlement accounts in Korean won (free-won accounts) for current transactions as well as for reinsurance contracts and investments in domestic stocks. Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements No. No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities The Ministry of Finance and Economy (MFE) initiates policy with respect to prescrip- tion of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for current transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea (BOK) executes most of the above functions; it also regulates the operations of the exchange market and is authorized to intervene in it. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 150 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may freely buy, sell, or hold gold in any form in Korea. Residents are allowed to import and export gold other than gold coins in circulation, subject to the same regulations as those applied to merchandise trade (Foreign Trade Act). Korean currency notes in excess of W 8 million may not be exported without permis- sion from the BOK. Foreign currency banknotes in excess of the equivalent of $10,000 may not be exported without specific permission. Upon leaving Korea, nonresidents may purchase foreign currency up to the amount they have sold during their stay in Korea. The importation of Korean currency in excess of W 8 million is restricted. Residents and nonresidents must register domestic or foreign currency they bring into Korea at the customs office if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. All residents are allowed to open foreign currency deposit accounts. The foreign cur- rency composition of these accounts may be changed without restriction. Approval required No. Held abroad Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification purposes without a quantitative ceiling. General corporations and individuals are permitted to hold deposits abroad up to $3 million and $50,000, respectively, a year. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Nonresidents may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in foreign currency are free. The approval of the bank where the account is held is not required for remittances abroad or transfers to other foreign currency accounts for purchases and withdrawals of foreign means of payment or for payments relating to approved transactions. No. Yes. Nonresidents are allowed to hold free-won accounts through which they may convert the funds in won into foreign currency and transfer them abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Approval required Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other n on tariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures REPUBLIC OF KOREA 151 Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. Yes. All imports require licenses; for most imports, licenses are issued upon application. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are auto- matically approved) unless they are on the restricted list. As of July 1,1996, 81 of the 10,859 basic items in the Harmonized System were classified as restricted. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally approved automatically, irre- spective of their classification. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders, who are required to have exported and/or imported a minimum value of $500,000 in any one of the last two calendar years. Of the 81 items restricted under the GATT bal- ance of payments provision, 73 items are scheduled to be liberalized by 1997. How- ever, quantitative restrictions will be applied for rice, subject to Annex 5 of the WTO Agreement on Agriculture. Safeguards against excessive imports are provided under the Foreign Trade Act of 1987. A seven-member trade commission established under this act determines whether imports have harmed domestic industries, and if its finding is affirmative, it recommends the form of import relief to be provided, including quotas and quality standards. There are 152 items under the Imports Diversification Program, which was introduced to promote a geographically balanced import structure in 1978; the reduction in the number of items under the program is being accelerated, and the program will be abol- ished by the end of 1999. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export earnings exceeding $50,000 must be repatriated to Korea within six months except in specific cases. However, general trading companies licensed under the For- eign Trade Act and enterprises whose trade value of the previous year exceeds $5 mil- lion, are allowed to retain overseas deposits up to 50% of this value within the limit of $500 million. Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas There are ten items, two agricultural and fishery products, and eight industrial prod- ucts, that are currently subject to voluntary export restraints on the basis of HS 6 digits, and that are made public through the Export-Import Notice. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 152 With quotas Export taxes REPUBLIC OF KOREA There are quotas under the ATC, and other bilateral agreements. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. No. Approval of the BOK is required for the remittance of commissions not directly linked with trade. Approval is required for commissions exceeding $50,000 and 10% of the value of un- derlying transactions. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits The transfer of income from securities acquired through inheritance is subject to prior approval. No. No. No. No. The monthly allowance for residents staying abroad for over 30 days is $10,000. For those staying abroad over one year, remittance of $50,000 (including basic travel al- lowances) is allowed within two weeks after the time of departure. Residents traveling abroad may, in general, purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of $10,000 a trip as their basic travel allowance; additional foreign exchange may also be purchased for specified expenses, including transportation costs. No. No. The basic monthly allowance allowed to be remitted for students under 20 years of age is $3,000; students with a dependent family are allowed an additional allowance of $500 for a spouse and for each child. Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Yes. No. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval The remittance of management advisory consulting fees not related to financial or in- surance businesses requires approval from the BOK, and the remittance of management advisory consulting fees related to financial or insurance businesses requires approval from the MFE. Quantitative limits No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF KOREA 153 Indicative limits/bona fide test No. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Gambling/prize earnings Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits No. Foreigners employed by Korean firms and expatriate firms in Korea may remit their salaries, except for basic living expenses, and retirement allowances to their home countries. No. No. No. No. Korean residents are allowed to remit up to $5,000 a transaction to their parents and children living abroad for living expenses, and to their relatives abroad for wedding gifts or funeral donations, with no restrictions on the number of remittances. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits No. Residents can make payments abroad by credit cards for expenditures relating to travel and tourism; for amounts exceeding $5,000 a month, the foreign exchange authorities must verify the authenticity of the payments. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Controls on cap i tal and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Korean residents are permitted to hold foreign currency earned from invisible transac- tions, but once converted into won, a limit applies to reconversion. Residents and non- residents must register domestic and foreign exchange they bring into Korea at customs if the amount exceeds the equivalent of $10,000. The importation by travelers of Ko- rean currency in excess of W 2 million is restricted. The proceeds received by con- struction companies from construction activity abroad must be deposited in foreign currency accounts at the domestic foreign exchange banks, and profits may be con- verted into won following the completion of each project. Domestic firms engaged in international construction and service businesses may deposit abroad up to 30% of the balance of their overseas contracts or $3 million, whichever is greater. Koreans are allowed to hold foreign exchange freely; however, once these balances are converted into won, a limit applies to reconversion. Capital Transactions Nonresidents may invest in listed stocks; nonguaranteed listed convertible bonds issued by small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs); and public bonds designated by the Securities Exchange Commission according to the "Securities Act" subject to the fol- lowing: (1) foreigners can acquire listed stocks up to 4% individually and 18% collec- tively of the local number of shares issued; (2) foreigners can acquire convertible bonds issued by SMEs up to 5% individually and 30% collectively of the total value of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 154 REPUBLIC OF KOREA Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents convertible bonds; and (3) other than the cases stated above, nonresidents require ap- proval from the MFE prior to the acquisition of securities or the rights thereof from residents. International organizations may issue won-denominated bonds in the domestic capital market in accordance with the securities-related regulations. However, other nonresi- dents require prior approval from the ministry in order to issue securities in the do- mestic capital market. Sale of securities or the rights thereof, which are allowed to be acquired by nonresidents, is permitted. All investors, including institutional investors, individual investors, and general corpo- rate investors, are permitted to invest freely in any foreign securities that are deemed to have investment values, not confined to the listed securities on foreign stock ex- changes. The issue of won-denominated securities abroad requires prior approval of the MFE. The issue of foreign-currency-denominated securities abroad by residents must be re- ported to the MFE; the report of issuance is assumed to be accepted seven days after submission of the report, unless other notification is made by the MFE. Foreign investment funds and international beneficiary certificates established with the approval by the ministry can purchase domestic money market securities without ap- proval of the authorities. For transactions of money market securities between residents and nonresidents other than the above-mentioned, approval of the ministry is required. Requires the ministry's approval. Certificates of deposits and commercial papers may be regarded as securities like equi- ties and bonds according to the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), Decree (FEMD), and Regulation (FEMR). These money market securities may be issued in won or foreign currencies. The issue of foreign-currency-denominated securities on a foreign money market must be filed with the MFE. Investors who have been approved to purchase foreign money market securities are allowed to sell such securities. Same restrictions apply as on capital market securities. The issuance of beneficiary certificates by trust companies, either in the domestic or the foreign market, is subject to the approval of the MFE. The approval system on the issuance of beneficiary certificates is designed especially to protect investors and may be regarded as a kind of prudential regulation. The size of the issuance of beneficiary certificates is established at an appropriate amount in consideration of the volume of the capital inflow resulting from the capital market opening. Purchase abroad by residents Such purchase is subject to approval by the MFE. Sale or issue abroad by residents Issuance and sale of collective investment securities by foreign trust companies in the domestic market require the approval by the MFE. Although the purchase of domestic collective investment securities by nonresidents requires approval by the MFE, nonresidents may sell domestic collective investment securities they have lawfully acquired. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents It is not necessary for foreign investment funds or international beneficiary certificates established with permission from the MFE to report when they purchase domestic in- struments and claims. Also foreign banks can purchase domestic instruments and claims from domestic foreign exchange banks. For other transactions of the instruments and claims between residents and nonresidents than the above-mentioned, permission from the MFE is required. Effective May 1996, stock index futures began to be traded ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Sale or issue locally by nonresidents REPUBLIC OF KOREA 155 on the existing stock exchange, and nonresidents' access to the market was allowed within certain limits. The issue of foreign instruments and claims on the domestic financial market require the approval by the MFE. It is not necessary for nonresidents to obtain permission or submit a report when selling domestic instruments and claims once they are permitted to purchase them. Purchase abroad by residents Residents other than foreign exchange banks may trade through a foreign exchange bank within certain limits equivalent to actual demand. Sale or issue abroad by residents A sale or issue abroad requires approval by the MFE. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Deferred-receipt exports on a letter-of-credit basis, in which the settlement period is less than three years, are allowed without restriction. Deferred-receipt exports on a letter-of-credit basis, in which the settlement period is more than three years after the shipment of goods or the signing of its export bill of exchange, are allowed in the fol- lowing cases with validation from a foreign exchange bank: (1) where payment is guar- anteed by the importing country's central government agency or central bank; (2) where it is covered by export insurance; and (3) where qualified foreign banking institutions, as designated by the BOK, open letters of credit and guarantee payment. Imports ex- ceeding 360 days are allowed with validation from a foreign exchange bank in cases where a refund guarantee must be provided by the exporting country's central govern- ment agency, central bank, or qualified banking institution. Residents wishing to enter into lease contracts for assets other than real estate from nonresidents shall obtain vali- dation from a foreign exchange bank. Since September 1992 when a negative list system was introduced to the FEMA, all methods of settlement for trade in goods and services have been liberalized except for those methods specified on the negative list under the FEMR. By residents to nonresidents Loans by residents to nonresidents require prior approval from the MFE. To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The credits are restricted to foreign exchange banks, but, since May 1995, commercial loans have been allowed for SMEs, firms engaged in social overhead capital (SOC) projects, foreign-invested firms with high technology, and domestic firms that wish to repay overseas borrowing earlier than contracted. Foreign borrowing by these firms of more than $1 million and with a maturity of more than three years is governed by the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. Foreign-financed companies are, in principle, subject to the same regulations governing foreign borrowing as other enterprises. However, the borrowing by high-technology, foreign-financed manufacturing companies is allowed up to 100% of the foreign-invested capital; also, maturity is limited to three years or less, and limitations are imposed on the use of funds. Foreign borrowing repayable within three years is governed by the Foreign Exchange Act. The maximum maturity period permitted for deferred payments is 180 days for imports of raw materials for export production. Except for banks, other residents shall obtain approval from the BOK, except for the following cases: (1) where a foreign importer is granted an offshore loan by a foreign exchange bank to finance imports from a resident, and the said resident pledges a guar- antee in foreign currency; (2) where a resident concludes a contract guaranteeing or bearing the performance of liabilities assumed by the nonresident, who in turn is pro- viding a guarantee, such as bid bonds or other sureties, related to international bids or contracts entered into by a resident; and (3) where residents provide guarantees to serve as collateral for spot financing. There are no restrictions on the provision of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 156 REPUBLIC OF KOREA To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents underwritten backup facilities by the domestic institutional investors when they par- ticipate in an international underwriting syndicate. Any resident may freely accept a guarantee relating to an overseas borrowing to finance an overseas investment from another resident, in which the surety for the guarantee is pledged by nonresidents. Other transactions related to the creation of credits arising from liability guarantee contracts between residents and nonresidents require approval from the BOK. Therefore, residents are free to take up financial backup facilities of- fered by nonresidents as long as the issuance of overseas securities has been properly reported. If the amount of investment is less than or equal to $10 million, validation of a foreign exchange bank is needed. If the amount is more than $10 million but less than or equal to $50 million, notification of the BOK is needed. If the amount exceeds $50 million, approval of the BOK is needed, and the Overseas Investment Advisory Committee must examine the investment plan to analyze the effects of the investment on the do- mestic economy prior to issuing an approval. Foreign investment refers to when foreigners acquire shares or rights held by the na- tionals of Korea and the juridical persons of Korea in accordance with the Foreign Capital Inducement Act. As such, equity participation is possible by increasing the amount invested in newly established or existing enterprises. Direct investment by means of mergers and acquisitions is not allowed. For the establishment and extension of a domestic branch of a foreign enterprise, approval from the MFE is required; for financial institutions and, in the case of nonfinancial institutions, approval of the BOK is required for the establishment and extension of a branch and notifications for estab- lishment of an office. Investments in public utilities, radio, and television are re- stricted. Direct investments are allowed in all industries, except those specified on a "negative" list. In December 1995, the negative list consisted of 195 industries out of 1,148 indus- tries listed in the Korean standard industrial classification, resulting in a liberalization ratio of 90.7%. In the manufacturing sector, the negative list consists of 25 industries out of 585 industries, resulting in a liberalization ratio of 98.3%. In the nonmanufactur- ing sector, the negative list consists of 170 industries out of 563 industries, resulting in a liberalization of 82.7%. In general, foreign-financed companies are no longer required to set up partnerships with local firms. There are no restrictions on the maximum value of foreign investment. Tax privileges may be granted to foreign-financed projects that are accompanied by advanced technology. Tax privileges have been continuously reduced, and post- investment controls have also been relaxed to treat foreign and local companies equally. All foreign direct investments, except those in industries on the negative list, are sub- ject to a notification requirement. A notification is deemed accepted by foreign ex- change banks unless otherwise notified. The notification system has gradually been expanded since the beginning of January 1993. The repatriation of foreign capital is freely permitted. Overseas direct investments in the fields of the lease and sale of real estate, construc- tion, and the operation of golf courses are prohibited. With regard to operations in real estate, no approvals or notifications are required for acquisition of overseas real estate by foreign exchange banks, government authority, and for residents if given as gifts or through inheritance from nonresidents. However, approval from or notification to the BOK is required for acquisitions of overseas real estate by residents as follows: (1) notification is required for the acquisition of real estate costing $10 million or less, which is necessary for approved business activities; and (2) permission is required for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Purchase locally by nonresidents REPUBLIC OF KOREA 157 the acquisition of real estate costing no less than $10 million, which is necessary for approved business activities. The following are not restricted: the acquisition of domestic land or mortgages, pursu- ant to the Foreigner's Acquisition and Management of Land Act; leasing of domestic real estate by nonresidents; and acquisition of real estate or associated rights other than land by nonresidents from other nonresidents in Korea. Notification of the BOK is required for acquisition of real estate and its associated rights, including real estate acquired through inheritance or gift from nonresidents and establishment of fixed col- lateral not assuming the transfer of ownership. Approval of the MFE is required for real estate acquisitions other than those specified above. Sale locally by nonresidents Approval from the BOK is also required for nonresidents for remittance of proceeds accrued from sales of their domestic properties. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) For reference, the foreign exchange banks are required to submit reporting to the minis- try for funding maturities of one year or more and for amounts exceeding $10 million. Foreign exchange banks may extend credits without restriction to nonresidents in for- eign currency. Other credit institutions may extend credits up to $10 million. The latter will be allowed to extend foreign currency credits to nonresidents without restriction in 1996. Foreign currency loans by resident banks to nonresidents of less than $2 million are permitted freely; loans ranging from $2 million to $20 million require ex post noti- fication to the ministry, and loans exceeding $20 million require prior notification to the ministry. Other credit institutions may extend credits up to $10 million. Lending locally in foreign exchange There are loan ceilings according to economic sector. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions spec if ic to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws In relation to reserve requirements on foreign currency deposit accounts, the ratio of resident deposit accounts is 9%, and that of nonresident deposit accounts, 1%. The limits are as follows: (1) overall overbought position: an amount equivalent to 15% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month; (2) overall oversold posi- tion: an amount equivalent to 10% of the total equity capital at the end of the previous month or $20 million, whichever is greater; and (3) spot oversold position: an amount equivalent to 3% of the total equity capital or $5 million, whichever is greater. Beside the foreign exchange laws or foreign exchange controls, all institutional inves- tors have their own rules for asset operations. For example, securities companies must keep their proportion of the portfolio invested within 30% of their total asset, which is set out in the Rules on Asset Operations for Securities Companies by the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). Insurance companies and securities investment trust companies can maintain their portfolio abroad within 10% and 30% of their total as- sets, respectively, by the Rules on Asset Operations for Insurance Companies and the Rules on Asset Operations for Securities Investment Trust Companies established by the MFE. Institutional investors are permitted to hold deposits abroad for asset diversification purposes without a quantitative ceiling. General corporations and individuals are permitted to hold deposits abroad of up to $3 million and $50,000 a year, respectively. Restrictions imposed by Securities Laws are as follows: (1) domestic securities investments by foreigners are regulated by the Rules on Sales and Purchases of Securities by Foreigners established by the SEC. The rules include investment ceilings, investment procedures, and the management of foreign investors, etc.; (2) overseas securities investments by residents are regulated by the Rules on Sales and Purchases of Overseas Securities established by the SEC. The rules include eligibility of the securities for investment and transaction procedures, etc. (3) issuance of overseas ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 158 REPUBLIC OF KOREA securities by residents are regulated by the Rules on Issuance of Overseas Securities and the Rules on Management of Listed Companies on Overseas Securities Markets established by the SEC. The rules include the eligibility of issuers, the use of funds raised by issuance, and the obligation of issuers on reporting, etc.; and (4) international securities transactions by residents are regulated by the Rules on Securities Business by Domestic Branches of Foreign Securities Companies established by the SEC. The Rules on Securities Business by Domestic Branches of Foreign Securities Companies include the accumulation of retained earnings and the obligation of submitting financial statements, etc. The Rules on Overseas Securities Business by Domestic Securities Companies include the restriction on the investment of domestically listed stocks by overseas branches of securities companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LITHUANIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of Acceptance: May 3, 1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Pegged Exchange Arrangement The currency of Lithuania is the litas. No. Unitary. The litas is pegged to the U.S. dollar at LTL 1 per U.S. dollar since April 1994 when the currency board arrangement was established. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements No. Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control authorities Correspondent accounts exist between the Bank of Lithuania (BOL) and the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU. These ac- counts need not be used for payments originating after October 1992. Ruble-denominated correspondent accounts maintained with the central banks of the Baltic countries, Russia, and the other countries of the FSU have been closed and are in the process of being settled. Parliament has the legislative authority in foreign exchange and trade matters; it has adopted a banking law delegating to the BOL the authority to issue regulations govern- ing foreign exchange transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks licensed by the BOL. Authorized banks are allowed to trans- act among themselves, as well as with residents and nonresidents of Lithuania, and are divided into four categories, depending on the types of transactions they are permitted to conduct. The simplest type of license limits the operations to buying and selling foreign exchange (cash and traveler's checks). Banks that are granted a general license are allowed to offer a full range of banking services in foreign exchange operations, including issuing letters of credit and opening correspondent accounts with banks abroad. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 160 LITHUANIA Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Yes. Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Import licenses and other nontariff measures There are no quantitative restrictions or licensing requirements on imports, except for health and national security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Certain agricultural goods and alcoholic beverages are subject to duties, and certain quantitative restrictions are used to control trade in strategic goods and technology to protect Lithuania's cultural heritage, and to prevent illegal trade in copper and other nonferrous metals, alloys, and scrap. Alcoholic beverages and tobacco can be imported only by traders registered with the government, but import quantities are unrestricted. A three-tier tariff structure exists consisting of: (1) a "conventional" rate applied to countries granted MFN status; (2) a "preferential" rate applied to countries with which Lithuania has a foreign trade agreement; (3) an "autonomous" rate that is 5% to 10% points greater than the MFN rate applied to all other countries. For most imports, a 10% tariff rate applies. Higher tariff rates are levied on certain products (e.g., live animals, agricultural products, alcohol and tobacco, and a few manufactured goods), some exceeding 30%. The majority of agricultural products (and certain other items such as alcohol) are subject to zero tariff rates, but tariffs on certain such items remain quite high, and the tariff structure remains highly dispersed. A tax at the uniform rate of 0.01% is imposed on imports (and exports) for the sole purpose of collecting statistical information on trade. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Export licenses LITHUANIA 161 From November 1, 1994 to May 1,1996, the following products were subject to tempo- rary export prohibitions: red clover seeds, feathers and down used for stuffing, raw hides and skins, unprocessed pine and birch timber with thin-end diameter not less than 20 cm., unprocessed oak and ash timber, and glands and other organs used for pharmaceutical products and organotherapeutical uses without quotas issued by the Ministry of Health Care. This prohibition served to protect a small number of domestic processors of primary products. The export bans were not binding for countries that have signed a foreign trade agreement with Lithuania. In the case of products, banned exports accounts for only 20% of total exports, because wood is mostly exported to Finland, Switzerland, and Germany, all of which have foreign trade agreements with Lithuania. Regulations governing trade in strategic goods and technology, cultural ob- jects, nonferrous scrap, and waste apply to exports as well as imports. Export taxes Export duties are levied on certain raw materials and selected products. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits No. No. No. No. No. Yes. Capital Transactions To residents from nonresidents Resident firms may borrow foreign exchange from authorized banks or borrow directly from banks abroad with the approval of the BOL. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment There are no restrictions, except in fields that are subject to prohibition under the Law on Foreign Capital Investments in the Republic of Lithuania (state defense, production and sale of narcotic substances, lottery business). The law permits the state to sell shares to nonresidents, guarantees nondiscriminatory national treatment to foreign investors, and protects investments against nationalization and expropriation. The purchase of state-owned enterprises is subject to authorization from the Central Privatization Committee. One of the main conditions in this process is that the company must remain involved in the same type of business for at least one year under the new ownership. While firms with 100% foreign capital ownership are allowed to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 162 LITHUANIA operate in Lithuania, the government reserves the right to establish limits on foreign investment in Lithuanian enterprises. In joint ventures in the transportation and communication sectors, the domestic partner is required to hold the majority of the shares. Wholly owned ventures in the alcoholic beverage or tobacco industries are prohibited. Enterprises with foreign investment must be insured by Lithuanian insurance companies, even if the company retains other insurance services outside Lithuania. Tax incentives are provided as follows: if the foreign investment was made before the end of 1993, the profit tax is reduced by 70% (to a range of 8.7% to 29%) for five years; for another three years, the profit tax is reduced by 50%; and for investments made between January 1994 and December 1995, profits will be taxed at a rate re- duced by 50% for six years. For joint ventures, these reductions are proportional to the foreign capital invested. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The ownership of land by nonresidents in Lithuania is prohibited, but lease contracts with limits to two hectares of land in Vilnius and 10 hectares outside the capital are permitted for up to 99 years and may be renewed thereafter. In the near future, accord- ing to EU requirements, nonresidents of certain foreign countries will be allowed to purchase land. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions spec if ic to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Maintenance of accounts abroad Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Resident banks or other credit institutions must inform the BOL about their accounts with foreign banks. Locally issued securities must be denominated in national currency. A bank's overall open position may not exceed 30% of its capital, and the open position in individual currencies may not exceed 20% of the bank's capital. The open position does not apply to the U.S. dollar. Provisions spec if ic to ins t i tu t ional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position as of December 31,1995) Article Vm Date of acceptance: November 11,1968. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Malaysia is the ringgit. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the ringgit is determined by supply and demand. The Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) intervenes only to maintain orderly market conditions and to avoid excessive fluctuations in the value of the ringgit. The BNM also monitors the exchange rate against a basket of currencies weighted in terms of Malaysia's major trading partners and the currencies of settlement. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates, whether spot or forward, to all customers for all currencies other than those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Forward exchange contracts may be effected for both commercial and financial trans- actions. For financial transactions, prior approval is required. For commercial transac- tions, forward cover for imports is provided for up to 12 months from the intended date of import, while for export purposes the forward cover would be up to six months from the export date. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Special rules apply to settlements with Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) There are 12 arrangements: 5 Palm Oil Credit and Payment Arrangements (POCPAs), 1 revolving credit, and 6 with the LAIA. There are 10 arrangements: 1 POCPA and 9 with the LAIA. The Controller of Foreign Exchange, who is also the Governor of the BNM, adminis- ters exchange control throughout Malaysia on behalf of the Malaysian government. On June 23, 1993, Malaysia notified the Fund that it had imposed certain restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. No. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 164 MALAYSIA Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency There is no restriction on the exportation of currency notes in a traveler's immediate possession. The exportation of ringgit by any other means requires prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Exportation of foreign currency notes, other than on the person or in the baggage of a traveler, requires prior approval. No limitation is imposed on a traveler's importation of currency notes. The importation of domestic banknotes by other than commercial banks, or by any other means, requires prior approval from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Malaysia up to $5 million. Seven banks, designated as "first-tier banks," are permitted to offer foreign currency accounts to residents. All other domestic banks must continue to obtain permission from the Controller of Foreign Exchange before offering currency accounts to residents. Approval required These accounts can be opened only with tier 1 commercial banks. Held abroad Approval required Residents with no domestic borrowing are allowed to open foreign currency accounts with an overseas branch of Malaysian-owned banks. Residents with domestic borrowing require prior approval to open any overseas account. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Residents with domestic borrowing require prior approval to open any overseas account. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. All commercial and merchant banks are allowed to open foreign currency accounts for nonresidents. Nonresident ringgit accounts in Malaysia are designated external accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to external accounts. Credits to these accounts are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of statistical forms for amounts exceeding RM 100,000, if residents make such payments. Proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to external accounts, and the balances may be transferred to any other resident or nonresident account or converted into any currency, except those of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). All debits and credits to the latter accounts require prior approval. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 165 Blocked accounts All debits and credits to accounts of residents of Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) require prior approval. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments The authority for import control rests with the Royal Customs and Excise Department of the Federal Ministry of Finance. Import licensing throughout Malaysia is adminis- tered daily by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry together with other specified authorities, such as the Ministry of Primary Industries, the Malaysian Timber Board, and the Veterinary Department, on behalf of the Royal Customs and Excise Department. Imports from Israel require licenses. Finished motor vehicle imports are subject to nonautomatic import licensing, which is administered by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. The movement of live animals between peninsular Malaysia, Sa- bah, and Sarawak is subject to a permit issued by the Veterinary Department. Imports of the meat, bones, hides, hooves, horns, and offal of any animal or any portion of an animal from all countries require an import license. Imports of primates, whether dead or alive, require an import license, subject to approval from the Department of Wildlife and National Parks. Imports from Haiti are prohibited. Certain imports are subject to quantitative restrictions, which are reviewed periodi- cally, to protect local industries temporarily when required. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. Yes. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Exports and Export Proceeds Proceeds from exports must be received and repatriated according to the payment schedule specified in the commercial contract, but no longer than six months after the date of exportation. Exporters are allowed to retain a portion of their export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Malaysia up to $5 million. Exports of rubber from peninsular Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malay- sian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports to Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) require import licensing from the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Exports of logs are restricted and require licensing from the Malaysian Timber Industries Board. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products, arms and related materials, military vehicles and equipment, and police equipment to Haiti are prohibited. Exports of roofing tiles, bricks, minerals, rice and paddy in any form, milk and specified milk products, textiles, and all other goods as specified in the second schedule of Customs (Prohibition of Exports) Order No. 1988 of the 1967 Customs Act are subject to permits. Export incentives are provided to companies that export Malaysian products. The pri- mary incentives include a double deduction of expenses incurred in overseas promo- tion, export credit refinancing, and duty drawbacks. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles to all other countries other than Israel and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) may be made without restriction. Remittances to nonresidents of profits on all bona fide investments are permitted, subject only to the completion of statistical forms for amounts exceeding RM 100,000. Remittances of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 166 MALAYSIA interest payments do not require prior approval as long as such payments are in accor- dance with the terms of the loan obtained. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated according to the proceeds schedule speci- fied in the agreement. If received in foreign currency, proceeds may be retained in permitted foreign currency accounts. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Malaysia has no controls for nonresidents selling Malaysian securities in the country, nor does it require them to repatriate the proceeds of the sale. However, nonresidents must obtain approval to issue securities in the country. No controls apply for transactions valued at less than RM 100,000. Where an individ- ual payment amounts to RM 100,000 or more or its equivalent in foreign currency, a resident is permitted to purchase foreign securities and transfer funds associated with these purchases, provided that the following requirements are met: (1) the payment is made in foreign currency; (2) the resident has no domestic borrowing; and (3) for cor- porate residents with domestic credit facilities, the total payment to nonresidents for the purpose of investment abroad does not exceed the aggregate amount of RM 10 mil- lion equivalent in a calendar year. The prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Ex- change is required for transactions that do not comply with the above requirements. No controls apply to a resident for the sale of securities abroad. However, a resident must obtain approval to issue securities abroad. Approval is given if the proceeds as- sociated with these issues are used to finance productive activities in Malaysia, particu- larly for projects that generate foreign exchange earnings for Malaysia or save on the future outflow of foreign exchange from Malaysia through the production of import substitution goods. The proceeds from the sale or permitted issuance of securities are required to be transferred to Malaysia. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations as for securities apply. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for securities apply. Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents When residents issue money market instruments abroad, it is considered obtaining credit facilities. Residents are permitted freely to obtain credit facilities in foreign cur- rency only up to RM 5 million. For amounts exceeding their figure, residents must acquire prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Approval is given read- ily for all foreign currency credit facilities raised on reasonable terms to finance pro- ductive activities in Malaysia, particularly for projects that generate sufficient foreign exchange to service the external debt so created. There is no control on the sale of Malaysian securities in the country by nonresidents and for the latter to repatriate the proceeds of the sale. However, approval is required for nonresidents to issue securities in the country. Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for securities apply. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 167 Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase abroad by residents A resident must obtain permission to make payment to a nonresident for any spot or forward contract or interest rate futures not transacted at a futures exchange in Malaysia. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents must obtain permission to issue and to sell financial instruments abroad. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents No controls apply to other residents (other than authorized dealers) to extend credit terms to nonresidents for the export of goods from Malaysia up to a maximum period of six months from the date of export. A resident is permitted to obtain credit facilities in foreign currency up to the equiva- lent of RM 5 million in the aggregate from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents. Any amount exceeding the permitted limit would require the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Residents are not allowed to obtain loans in ringgit from nonresidents. There is no restriction for residents to obtain com- mercial credits from nonresidents for the importation of capital goods for a period not exceeding 12 months. Residents (other than authorized dealers) lending in foreign currency to nonresidents have to comply with the exchange control rules. Under current exchange control rules, no restrictions apply to transactions valued at less than RM 100,000. Where an indi- vidual payment amounts to more than that amount or its equivalent in foreign currency, a resident is allowed to pay any sum of money to a nonresident for the purpose of lending to nonresidents, provided that: (1) the payment is made in foreign currency; (2) the resident has no domestic borrowing; and (3) for corporate residents with do- mestic credit facilities, the total payment to nonresidents for the purpose of investment abroad does not exceed the aggregate amount of RM 10 million equivalent in a calen- dar year. The Controller of Foreign Exchange must give prior approval for any pay- ments for such purpose that does not comply with the above requirements. A resident is permitted to obtain credit facilities in foreign currency up to the equiva- lent of RM 5 million in the aggregate from licensed banks, licensed merchant banks, and nonresidents. Any amount exceeding the permitted limit would require the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Residents are not allowed to obtain loans in ringgit from nonresidents. Residents are permitted to provide sureties, guarantees, or financial backup facilities to nonresidents for any purpose. However, any payment to a nonresident in relation to or consequential to the guarantee must be made in foreign currency. Residents are permitted to obtain financial guarantees of any amount in ringgit or for- eign currency only from: (1) a licensed offshore bank in the Labuan International Off- shore Financial Center; or (2) nonresident individuals or nonresidents who are share- holders, subsidiaries, related or associate companies, and are not financial institutions, provided all payments related to the guarantees are made in foreign currency. Other- wise, approval is required. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Yes. Inward direct investment There are no controls. However, the following inward investments, covered by the guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 regarding the acquisition of assets, mergers, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 168 MALAYSIA and takeovers, require prior approval from the Foreign Investment Committee (FIC): (1) proposed acquisition of any substantial fixed assets by foreign interests; (2) proposed acquisition of assets or interests, mergers, and takeovers of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means that will cause ownership or control to pass to foreign interests; (3) proposed acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power (equity interests) by any foreign interest or associated group or by a foreign interest in the ag- gregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies and businesses through any form of joint-venture agreement, management agreement, or technical assistance or other arrangement; (5) merger or takeover of any company or business in Malaysia; and (6) any other pro- posed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding RM 5 million in value. Incorporation of a Malaysian company by a foreign entity does not require the approval of the FIC. However, increases in the paid-up capital of a Malaysian company that involve any foreign entity require the approval of the FIC under the following circum- stances: (1) the total value of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds RM 5 mil- lion; (2) the total of the foreign entity's new subscription exceeds 15% of the voting power in the relevant company; (3) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, any foreign entity increases its voting power to more than 15% in the relevant company; (4) the total of the new subscription by several foreign entities increases their joint voting power to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; (5) as a result of the increase in paid-up capital, the aggregate holding of several foreign enti- ties increases to 30% or more of the voting power in the relevant company; and (6) an increase in the paid-up capital of any Malaysian company that raises the holding of individual foreign entities to more than 15% of the voting power, or the joint holding of several foreign entities to 30% or more of the voting power of the company concerned. In addition, the permitted percentage of equity held by foreigners also depends on the percentage of production exported, whether high-technology products are purchased or whether priority products are produced for the domestic market. For projects involving extracting, mining, and processing mineral ores, a majority foreign equity participation of up to 100% is permitted. No exchange controls apply to the repatriation abroad of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct foreign investment or sale of real estate (including capital gains) held by nonresidents. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the com- pletion of a statistical form for amounts of RM 100,000 or more. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchases of securities abroad by residents apply. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit inst itut ions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Only authorized dealers and tier 1 merchant banks are freely allowed to borrow in for- eign currency from nonresidents. Other financial institutions have to comply with the exchange control rules on foreign currency loans. Only authorized dealers in foreign currencies are freely permitted to maintain foreign accounts abroad. Other credit institutions are generally not permitted to operate nor maintain any foreign currency accounts, except for: (1) any licensed merchant banks to facilitate acceptance of time deposits in foreign currency from nonresidents; and (2) tier 1 merchant banks to facilitate their permitted foreign exchange activities. Authorized dealers are freely allowed to extend loans in foreign currency to nonresi- dents. A banking institution is, however, allowed to extend credit facilities in ringgit to: (1) a nonresident up to an aggregate of RM 200,000 for any purpose except to finance the acquisition or development of immovable property in Malaysia; and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA 169 (2) a nonresident bank or a nonresident stockbroking company that maintains an exter- nal account, provided that: (a) the total credit facilities of the nonresident stockbroking company or nonresident bank from all banking institutions does not exceed the aggregate of RM 5 million; and (b) the credit facilities are used by (i) the nonresident stockbroker to finance funding gaps if there is a delay in receipt of funds from its nonresident clients for the payment of securities purchased on the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange; and (ii) the nonresident correspondent bank to finance unforeseen or inadvertent funding gaps arising from the mismatching of receipts and payments through the external account. The extension of loans in ringgit to nonresidents exceeding the amounts or for purposes other than stipulated above, requires the prior permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. The prior permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is required for banks to remit amounts exceeding the equivalent of RM 10 million each calendar year. Lending locally in foreign exchange Authorized dealers and tier 1 merchant banks are allowed to lend in foreign currency to residents. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange The government freely permits the purchase and sale of Malaysian-registered securities denominated in foreign currency, provided that the issuance has been approved. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws All commercial banks are required to observe a specific limit on their net overnight open position in foreign currencies, long or short, spot or forward. The criteria in de- termining banks' net overnight foreign currency open position limits are based on a matrix that takes into account their shareholders' funds and dealing capacity. The limits are also subject to a maximum cap of 50% of shareholders' funds. Insurance companies are prohibited from holding foreign assets except under the fol- lowing circumstances: (1) such investment funds would be derived only from premiums received from the insurers offshore business; (2) such foreign assets are maintained solely to meet foreign liabilities arising from an insurer's insurance or reinsurance business overseas; (3) the foreign assets should not be more than the amount reasona- bly required for meeting liabilities in foreign currency after taking into account ex- pected cash flow, and (4) the Controller of Foreign Exchange approves the transactions. Under the Insurance Act 1963, insurance companies are required to invest at least 80% of the total value of assets of their insurance funds in the form of authorized Malaysian asset as specified in the Second Schedule of the Act. Employee Provident Fund (EPF) investment in foreign securities is subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance. There are no specific regulations governing foreign investment of the EPF. However, the EPF Act, 1991, requires the EPF to invest a minimum of 50% of its annual inves- tible funds in securities issued or guaranteed by the federal government, provided that the total amount of funds invested in such securities is not less than 70% of its total investment. Unit trust funds can invest up to a maximum of 10% of their net asset value in securities listed on foreign stock exchanges. Prior approval from the Securities Commission is required before such investment can be undertaken. There are no controls on foreign firms trading in the corporate debt, equity, and deriva- tive market. However, the following guidelines, as set out by the Foreign Investment Committee, should be observed: (1) any proposed acquisition of 15% or more of the voting power by any one foreign interest or associated group, or foreign interests in the aggregate of 30% or more of the voting power of a Malaysian company or business; (2) a company or business in any merger and takeover in Malaysia, whether by Malay- sian or foreign interests; and (3) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceeding in value RM 5 million, whether by Malaysians or foreign interests. Foreign companies with no substantial business operations in Malaysia are not normally granted listing on the local stock exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: November 12,1946. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Mexico is the Mexican peso. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Mexican peso is determined by supply and demand conditions in the interbank foreign exchange market. No. No. Forward cover is available from authorized commercial banks. An over-the-counter market in forwards and options in foreign exchange has been introduced. In April 1995, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange started trading future contracts on the peso of certain Latin American Countries. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts hi accordance with payments agreements with central banks of Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela, payments to these countries may be made through the Bank of Mexico (BOM) and the central bank of the country concerned within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. Similar payments arrangements exist with the central banks of Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Malaysia, and Nicaragua. Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Resident Accounts 171 Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Commercial banks are permitted to open checking accounts denominated in U.S. dol- lars payable in Mexico only for: (1) residents in the northern border area of Mexico, (2) firms domiciled in Mexico in any part of the country, and (3) official representa- tives of foreign governments and international organizations and foreigners working in these institutions. In case of time deposits denominated in U.S. dollars, commercial banks are permitted to open accounts for firms established in Mexico but are payable only abroad. Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Yes. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts No. Mexican banks are prohibited from receiving domestic currency deposits from foreign financial institutions abroad or from non-Mexican exchange houses, except in cases (1) where such funds represent the counterpart of foreign currency sold to the Mexican bank where the account is held; (2) where the funds represent the counterpart of for- eign currency sold to other Mexican banks; (3) where the funds represent the redemp- tion, sale, or interest payments of securities held in custody in the Mexican bank in which the account is held, only if the securities were bought with the proceeds from any of the transactions defined in (1) or (2); (4) where funds represent the counterpart of a peso contract concluded in a market recognized by the BOM; and (5) where authorized on a case-by-case basis by the BOM. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses from the Secretary of Commerce and Industrial Promotion are required for only 149 of the 10,065 items on which Mexico's general import tariff is levied, ex- cept for temporary imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export indus- tries. On average, import licenses cover the applicant's import needs for nine months and may be extended for three months. Import needs are estimated at 20% above the amount of previous actual imports but may be increased when justified. New licenses are issued only if the applicant can demonstrate that at least 70% of earlier licenses have been effectively used. For some commodities, "open-ended" import licenses may be granted, allowing imports to be effected during a period of six months to one year, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 172 MEXICO Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system subject to an overall limit. Depending on the importer's performance, the license may be renewed repeatedly. Yes. Yes. Yes. Import tariffs range from zero to 20%, with rates on some products higher. Imports from members of LAIA are granted preferential duty treatment and there are free trade zones in place in certain regions. Free trade agreements exist with Bolivia, Chile, Costa Rica, Colombia, and Venezuela. Trade with the United States and Canada takes place under NAFTA. Mexico has utilized antidumping duties on a variety of products: corrugated rod from Brazil, doorknobs from China, and seamless tubes and pipes from the United States. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Most exports do not require licenses. Exports of a few specified items related to en- dangered species and archaeological pieces are prohibited. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments The contracting of personal insurance policies abroad is not restricted, but casualty insurance policies intended to cover events that will take place in Mexico may be con- tracted only with Mexican companies, including subsidiaries of foreign insurance com- panies established in Mexico. Reinsurance may be contracted with foreign reinsurance companies. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Capital Transactions 173 Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents There are restrictions on shares and other securities of a participating nature and debt securities denominated in domestic currency. Yes. There are restrictions on the purchase by securities firms for their own account and by financial institutions if the security is denominated in domestic currency. Sale or issue abroad by residents There are restrictions on debt securities denominated in domestic currency. On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The restriction is applied only to debt securities denominated in domestic currency. Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act, only documents registered in the National Registry of Securities and Intermediaries may be offered publicly. To obtain the afore- mentioned register one must comply with the requisites established in the Securities Exchange Act. Purchase abroad by residents There are restrictions on the purchase by securities firms for their own account and by financial institutions if the security is denominated in domestic currency. Sale or issue abroad by residents The sale to nonresident financial institutions of debt securities issued in domestic cur- rency by resident banks is not allowed. The sale or issue abroad of securities, issued in Mexico or by Mexican corporations, is subject to the National Registry of Securities and Intermediaries. On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents The purchase of securities denominated in domestic currency by financial institutions is not allowed. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act, only documents registered in the National Registry of Securities and Intermediaries may be offered publicly. To obtain the afore- mentioned register one must comply with the requisites established in the Securities Exchange Act. Sale or issue abroad by residents The purchase of securities denominated in domestic currency is not allowed. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The holder, who is the beneficiary of the right consigned in the document, may be for- eign persons or corporations. In this case, the aforementioned persons may only acquire warrants when the underlying securities are of the free subscription type or related to a neutral investment trust authorized by the National Banking and Securities Commis- sion (NBSC). The warrants should be issued with reference to shares registered at the Mexican Stock Exchange and portfolios of representatives; shares of the capital of corporations should be registered at that stock exchange. In addition, NBSC provisions require that the issuer of the above-mentioned derivative be a corporation with shares registered at the National Registry of Securities and Intermediaries. Purchase abroad by residents The restrictions are as follows: (1) securities firms for their own account; and (2) fi- nancial institutions if the security is denominated in domestic currency. Sale or issue abroad by residents These instruments can only be negotiated on the Mexican Stock Exchange, and there- fore residents cannot sell or issue these instruments abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 174 MEXICO Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits must not be denominated in domestic currency. To residents from nonresidents Credits denominated in foreign exchange are restricted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Credits must not be denominated in domestic currency. To residents from nonresidents Credits denominated in foreign exchange are restricted. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment The restriction is applied to guarantees granted by resident banks in connection with lending by nonresidents to residents. In accordance with Recommendation 1/85 issued by the BOM, residents may not re- ceive sureties, guarantees, or financial backup facilities denominated in domestic cur- rency from nonresident entities. Nevertheless, this only remains a recommendation and does not have any obliging force. Although there exists no restriction in this respect, the Mexican government reserves the right to introduce foreign exchange control measures, thus affecting the outward direct investment. Foreign direct investments are normally allowed up to 100% of equity without prior authorization, with certain exceptions: (1) Investments in the following sectors are reserved for the state: oil and other hydro- carbons; basic petrochemicals; electricity; nuclear energy generation; radioactive min- erals; communication via satellite; telegraph; radiotelegraphy; postal service; railroads; issue of paper money; minting of coins; and the control and supervision of ports, air- ports, and heliports; (2) Investments in the following sectors are reserved exclusively for Mexican nationals or Mexican corporations with a foreign exclusion clause: retail trade of gasoline and liquefied petroleum gas; radio and television broadcasting, with the exception of cable television; road transport (excluding courier and packaged goods transport services); credit unions and development banks; and certain professional and technical services. However, foreign investors wishing to invest in these activities may acquire shares in companies engaged in these sectors through the Neutral Investment Mechanism; (3) Investments in the following sectors require prior authorization: acquisition of more than 49% of the equity in a Mexican corporation if the total value of assets exceeds US$25 million; maritime transport and certain port services; administration of air ter- minals; cellular telephones; construction activities, including the construction of pipe- lines for oil and its derivatives; oil and gas drilling; legal services; private education; credit information; securities rating institutions; and insurance agents. In order to ob- tain prior authorization, investors must submit their proposals to the National Com- mission of Foreign Investment. Approval is automatic if a formal response is not made within 45 working days of the date of application. In reaching its decision, the Com- mission takes into account the impact of investments on employment and training of workers, the technological contribution, compliance with environmental provisions in relevant laws, and the contribution to the economy; and (4) Ceilings on foreign ownership are applied to the following sectors: financial insti- tutions; air transportation; manufacturing of explosives and firearms; printing and pub- lication of domestic newspapers; agricultural land; cable television and basic telephone services; video text and packet-switching services; and transportation by air and land, and certain activities related to maritime transport. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits MEXICO 175 The restrictions are the following: (1) the acquisition by foreign nonresidents of real estate outside a 100-kilometer strip alongside the Mexican land border and a 50-kilometer strip inland from the Mexican coast, provided the investor agrees to con- sider himself Mexican and to refrain from invoking the protection of his government regarding the property thus acquired; and (2) the acquisition by foreign nonresidents of real estate through a real estate trust within the zone defined above. It is a general rule under the regulations issued by the BOM that resident banks or credit institutions may not contract on any liability which may be expressed in domestic currency with foreign entities. On commercial and financial credits, banks must not register a monthly average of daily balances that should not be any higher than the result of any of the three following options: (1) the equivalent to 10% of the sum of the three-month average of the daily balance of the liabilities in domestic currency; (2) an additional amount to the one mentioned above is permitted in an amount of 4% of the three-month average of the daily balance of the sum of the liabilities mentioned above and registered three months previously; and (3) the equivalent of multiplying 1.6 times the amount of net capital the bank has shown in the two previous months, including the liabilities corresponding to the temporary capacity of admission of liabilities in foreign currency. There is also a restriction when: (1) credits and loans are granted in domestic currency by nonresident financial institutions to resident financial institutions, and (2) credits are granted by nonresident financial institutions to resident banks. Resident banks can maintain accounts abroad with the only restriction being that they must maintain an equilibrium between their positions in foreign exchange and domes- tic currency. The existing limit is established in Provision 2019/95 issued by the BOM so that banks may not register a monthly average of daily balances that should not be any higher than the result of any of the two following options: (1) the equivalent to 10% of the sum of the three-month average of the daily balance of the liabilities in domestic currency. An additional amount to the one mentioned in the paragraph above is permitted in an amount of 4% of the three-month average of the daily balance of the sum of the liabili- ties in the paragraph above and registered three months previously; and (2) the equivalent of multiplying 1.6 times the amount of net capital the bank has shown in the two previous months, including the liabilities corresponding to the temporary capacity of admission of liabilities in foreign currency. Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign currencies but the debt may be fulfilled by delivering the equivalent amount in accordance to the rate of exchange in domestic currency. Banks can purchase, in the primary market, locally issued securities denominated in foreign currency but payable in pesos at the current foreign exchange rate, called Tesobonos. The foreign exchange rate used to calculate the equivalent amounts in Mexican pesos of principal and interests, is the selling foreign exchange rate of U.S. dollars. Provision 2019/95 regulates the operations of the credit institutions with gov- ernmental securities and primary and secondary markets. The liabilities of commercial banks denominated in foreign currencies must not exceed the larger amount of either (1) 10% plus an additional 4% of their liabilities in domes- tic currency, or (2) 1.6 times their net capital. Commercial banks must balance their positions subject to exchange rate risk on a daily basis. Short and long positions are acceptable as long as they do not exceed 15% of the bank's net capital. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 176 MEXICO Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad (1) Insurance companies: In compliance with the Insurance Companies Act, insurance companies can operate with nonresidents in the following areas among others: (a) ad- minister the reserves retained from domestic or foreign insurance companies corre- sponding to reinsurance operations; (b) foreign investment of technical reserves corre- sponding to operations that take place abroad; and (c) constitute banking deposits abroad. (2) Mutual Funds: There are three types of mutual funds: (a) variable-income mutual funds; (b) fixed-income mutual funds; and (c) capital-risk mutual funds. Depending on the type of mutual fund, the NBSC established certain restrictions concerning the for- eign investment in their respective shares: variable-income mutual funds: foreign per- sons and corporations can acquire representative shares of mutual funds as well as foreign financial entities and groups of foreign persons. Fixed-income mutual funds: representative shares of this type of mutual fund can be acquired by foreign persons and corporations, foreign financial entities, and groups of foreign corporations. Capital risk mutual funds: the representative shares of this kind of mutual fund may be ac- quired by foreigners, persons, and corporations, provided that this participation does not exceed 49% of the shares of the respective mutual fund. Capital risk mutual funds may only invest in the representative shares or documents issued by the Mexican promoted corporations; consequently, they may not invest abroad. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: January 21, 1993. Currency Other legal tender Exchange Arrangement The currency of Morocco is the Moroccan dirham. Commemorative gold coins with a face value of DH 250 and DH 500, and commemorative silver coins with a face value of DH 50, DH 100, DH 150 and DH 200 are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Pegged The exchange rate of the Moroccan dirham is pegged to a basket of currencies compris- ing Morocco's principal trading partners, weighted in accordance with the geographic distribution of Morocco's foreign trade and the pattern of currencies of settlement. Bank Al-Maghrib (BAM) fixes daily rates for the rated currencies on the basis of variations in the value of the basket. Rates for most currencies quoted in Morocco are established on the basis of the daily dirham-French franc rate and the cross rates for those currencies in relation to the French franc in the international exchange markets. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the BAM, but authorized banks are permitted to offset pur- chases and sales on behalf of private customers in each separate currency. Each day, authorized banks must purchase from or sell to the BAM the balances of their pur- chases and sales in each currency; transactions are effected at rates fixed by the BAM. Clearing operations between banks are not permitted; thus, no interbank foreign ex- change market exists in Morocco. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations A forward foreign exchange cover facility is available for exports and imports of items benefiting from special customs arrangements. Forward contracts for the purchase or sale of foreign exchange that have been concluded between banks and their customers result in reverse contracts between the banks and the BAM. They may be concluded in any foreign currency quoted by the BAM for maturity periods ranging from a minimum of one month to a maximum of 12 months; the guaranteed exchange rate corresponds to the spot exchange rate, against the payment of a commission of 2% a year, of which a share amounting to 0.25% is retained by authorized banks; provisions are made for extending contract terms, revising contracts in part, or canceling them in whole or in part. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements No. Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Arrangements with Mali and Guinea have been inoperative since the 1960s. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 178 MOROCCO Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions There is a regional payments arrangement operated by the central banks of Algeria, Libya, Mauritania, Morocco, and Tunisia. Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Office (FEO), an agency under the Ministry of Finance and Foreign Investment. This office has delegated the execution of the main exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and ex- port licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Morocco maintains restrictions for security reasons against Iraq and the Federal Re- public of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) pursuant to UN Security Council resolu- tions. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or in- vestment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casa- blanca Stock Exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports of gold are subject to authorization from the Directorate of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes Administration. Each year, the Ministry of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots. The quota is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Exports of gold are prohibited. The exportation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Visitors to Morocco are permitted to repurchase foreign exchange against presentation of exchange certificate(s) up to the amount remaining from the original conversion of foreign exchange into dirhams. The importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers may also bring in foreign banknotes in any amount as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them within 30 days of their return to Morocco. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 179 Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. Approval required The following accounts may be opened: (1) Foreign currency accounts in the name of foreign nationals may be maintained by natural or juridical persons of foreign nationality, who are either residents or nonresi- dents. These accounts may be freely credited with transfers from abroad with foreign banknotes, checks, traveler's checks, or any other means of payment denominated in foreign currency and with foreign currency withdrawn from the BAM, following gen- eral or special authorization from the FEO. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad in favor of the account holder, to a foreign third party, for the surrender of for- eign currency to the BAM, or for the payment of checks denominated in foreign cur- rency. (2) Foreign currency accounts in the name of Moroccan residents living abroad may be opened by individuals of Moroccan nationality residing abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with transfers from abroad, checks or any other means of payment de- nominated in foreign currency, foreign currency withdrawn from the BAM following general or special authorization from the FEO, the return on investments effected on the basis of these accounts, and transfers from another foreign currency account or from an account in convertible dirhams. They may be freely debited for transfers abroad, transfers to another account in foreign currency or in convertible dirhams, foreign cur- rency subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treasury, and for surrender of foreign currency to the BAM. (3) Foreign currency accounts of exporters may be opened freely by Moroccan export- ers of goods and services who are already holders of convertible accounts for export promotion. Those who do not hold such an account must have the prior consent of the FEO. These accounts may be freely credited with 20% of foreign exchange receipts. The recording of foreign currency amounts corresponding to these rates must be ef- fected simultaneously with the surrender to the BAM of the remaining 80%. These accounts may also be credited freely with the return on invested funds lodged therein and with transfers from another foreign currency account of the same holder. They may be debited for professional expenses covered by exchange regulations, investment with authorized intermediary banks, subscriptions for notes issued by the Moroccan Treas- ury, for credit of another foreign currency account or a convertible dirham account for exporters (CCPEX) opened in the name of the same holder, and for surrender of for- eign currency to the BAM. (4) Foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be opened by natural or juridical per- sons of foreign nationality, who may be residents or nonresidents. These accounts may be credited freely with generally or specifically authorized transfers in favor of the account holder and with dirhams obtained from the sale to the BAM of foreign ex- change, including banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases of foreign exchange from the BAM. Transfers between foreign accounts in convertible dirhams may be made freely, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. Holders of these accounts may obtain international credit cards to settle their bills in Morocco and abroad. Deep-sea fishing companies may maintain converti- ble dirham or foreign currency accounts with Moroccan banks. Convertible dirham accounts may be credited with the full dirham equivalent of foreign exchange earnings, and foreign currency accounts may be credited with 25% of foreign exchange earnings. The operating expenses of these companies, including travel expenses of employees, may be financed from these accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 180 MOROCCO Domestic currency accounts Yes. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Convertible dirham accounts may be freely opened in the name of nonresident Moroc- cans residing abroad. Overdrafts are not allowed, and there are no restrictions on the interest rate payable. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) dirhams from the sale of convertible currencies, including banknotes, to the BAM; (2) transfers author- ized by the FEO; (3) payments of interest accrued on these accounts; (4) transfers from foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (5) transfers from term deposits in con- vertible dirham accounts. They may be debited freely for (1) the purchase of foreign exchange from the BAM; (2) dirham payments in Morocco; (3) transfers to foreign accounts in convertible dirhams; and (4) transfers to term deposits in convertible dirham accounts. These accounts may also be debited freely, either for the benefit of the account holder or for other nonresidents, for the purchase of foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, or other foreign-currency-denominated means of payment. Convertible dirham accounts for exporters may be opened by exporters of goods or services with Moroccan banks. These accounts may be credited with the equivalent of 20% of the foreign currency repatriated and surrendered to the BAM. Balances on these accounts may be used to finance expenditures contracted abroad and linked to the professional activity of those concerned. Fishing companies may credit to these accounts up to 100% of the foreign currency repatriated. Exporters have the choice of maintaining either foreign currency accounts or convertible dirham accounts for exporters. They may also hold both accounts simultaneously, provided that the overall percentage of export earnings to be credited to both accounts does not exceed 20% of foreign exchange earnings. Convertible term accounts are designed to attract funds from nonresident foreigners who are not entitled to guaranteed transfers. These funds may be transferred henceforth within a maximum period of five years. The holders of such accounts may use the available funds, without prior authorization from the FEO, to fund investments in Morocco; buy treasury bonds; purchase Moroccan marketable securities; settle expenses incurred in Morocco; and, in the case of foreign corporations, provide their Moroccan subsidiaries with current account advances. They may also freely transfer the balances to resident or nonresident foreigners or to Moroc- can nationals residing abroad. The beneficiaries of the proceeds of these accounts may use them to cover expenses incurred by foreign companies shooting films in Morocco; to purchase secondary residences under certain conditions; and to finance up to 50% of an investor's participation in investments in Morocco (the remainder must be financed with funds transferred from abroad). Funds invested with the proceeds of convertible term accounts may be transferred abroad without restriction in the event of liquidation or transfer, except for certain categories that are subject to a three-year waiting period. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments For all imports, the importer must subscribe to a security in the form of an import li- cense that must be lodged with an authorized bank, which may then make payments related to goods and incidental costs upon submission of the required documents. Spe- cial procedures are applicable to specified imports financed with foreign aid or loans. Imports used for the production of export goods may be financed directly from the pro- ceeds of foreign exchange claims of the same exporter within the framework of special lines of credit that Moroccan commercial banks are authorized to contract with their foreign correspondents. Moroccan commercial banks may make advance payments abroad for imports of capital goods up to 25% of the f.o.b. value of the goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 181 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Yes. Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of a relatively small number of items representing about 8% of industrial production are subject to minimum import prices (reference prices) for antidumping or safeguarding purposes. Except for goods imported by air, insurance policies for imports must be taken out with insurance companies in Morocco. However, for a limited group of goods, insurance policies may be underwritten abroad; this group includes externally funded imports, if the financing terms include foreign insurance; capital goods and equipment under turnkey contracts or duly authorized investment programs; crude oil; gas; cattle; and wood. Sugar, edible oil, cereals and products derived from these, arms, explosives, and cer- tain vehicles require licenses. Imports of products that affect public security, morale, and health may be prohibited. A small number of imported items are subject to minimum import pricing. Customs duties are levied on an ad valorem basis, with minimum and maximum rates of 2.5% and 35% respectively. Consumer goods not produced in Morocco are subject to a 5% duty. In addition, fiscal levies of 10%, 12.5%, or 15% are levied on imports. Im- ports used for production of exports are exempt from customs duties and other restric- tions. Preferential tariff treatment is also given to certain imports under the Industrial Investment Code. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. State import monopoly There are monopolies for a very limited number of products. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds All exporters must sign a guarantee to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange pro- ceeds. Export proceeds collected abroad may be used directly abroad to finance imports of goods and raw materials of goods for export. Foreign exchange must be surrendered within one month of the date of payment by foreign buyers specified in the commercial contract; in principle, this date must not be more than 150 days from the date of arrival of the merchandise. This deadline may be extended if warranted by business conditions and approved by the FEO. Residents of Moroccan nationality, including individuals and corporations, must repatriate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Exporters are authorized to hold a por- tion of export receipts (up to 20% for goods exporters and to 10% for service exporters) in convertible dirhams or foreign exchange accounts. Moroccans working abroad must surrender within one month all foreign exchange in their possession, but on departure from Morocco, they may export without restriction foreign banknotes obtained by debit- ing their accounts in convertible dirhams. If they do not have such an account, they may take out 15% of the foreign exchange repatriated and surrendered 12 months before to Moroccan banks up to a limit of DH 20,000. If these facilities are not available, Moroc- can residents living abroad may take advantage of the same DH 5,000 tourist allocation that applies to residents. Financing requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 182 MOROCCO Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Yes. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Flour, charcoal, certain animals, plants, and archaeological items are subject to authorization. Mineral products are subject to an ad valorem export tax of 0.5%, except for hydrocar- bons, for which the tax is 5%, and phosphates, for which a tax on phosphate explora- tion equivalent to DH 34 per ton of gross phosphates has been levied since 1992. A 1% quality control tax is levied on exports of foodstuffs. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Commissions Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to commercial transactions covered by the relevant import or export documents without authorization from the FEO. Moroccan enterprises are permitted to settle in dirhams the expenses incurred by their foreign managers and nonresident foreigners working for or on behalf of these enterprises. Foreign airlines operating in Morocco may transfer, without prior authorization from the FEO, any surplus revenue from the proceeds of ticket sales, excess baggage, and air freight. Transfers with respect to sea and road transportation may be made directly to authorized banks. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Commercial banks are authorized to provide Moroccan residents with a travel allowance in foreign exchange equivalent to a maximum of DH 5,000 a person a year for travel purposes without FEO approval. This allowance may be increased by DH 1,500 for a minor child on the passport of the beneficiary parent and accompanying said parent at the time of travel abroad. The same allocation may also be granted to Moroccan residents living abroad upon their return to their home country, provided they have not benefited from the 15% allocation on remittances effected 12 months previously up to a limit of DH 20,000. Residents of foreign nationality who wish to travel abroad may be granted foreign exchange equivalent to all of their savings from income. Business travel by exporters of goods and services may be financed without restriction by debiting convertible export promotion accounts or foreign currency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO 183 accounts maintained with Moroccan banks. In the case of business travel allowances for others, annual foreign exchange allowances are approved by the Exchange Office on the basis of need, with a daily maximum limit of DH 2,000. These banks have been empowered to provide advance allowances of up to DH 40,000 to small- and medium- size enterprises and of up to DH 20,000 a year for business travel by individuals not belonging to either of these categories. In all cases, business travel allowances cannot be added to allowances for tourist travel. The foreign exchange office grants exemptions as needed. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Approval by the Ministry of Health is required. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange for medical treatment abroad up to the equivalent of DH 20,000 and to make transfers on patients' behalf for treat- ment abroad in favor of hospitals and medical institutions concerned. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits No. A foreign exchange allocation equivalent to a maximum of DH 2,000 a month may be granted to foreign nationals residing in Morocco to cover the cost of higher education for a child studying abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange to individuals studying abroad without prior FEO authorization as follows: (1) an an- nual installation allowance equivalent to DH 10,000 and the same amount for a person accompanying a minor student leaving Morocco for the first time; (2) school fees to foreign academic institutions, upon submission of documentary evidence and without limit; and (3) a monthly allowance for living expenses amounting to the equivalent of DH 6,000 a month for nonscholarship holders and DH 4,000 for scholarship holders. In addition to these funds, banks are authorized to effect the transfer of rent and corre- sponding charges in favor of the foreign landlord once the student or his or her legal guardian has submitted a properly drawn-up lease and a certificate of residence or any other equivalent document. Indicative limits/bonafide test Applications for additional amounts must be referred to the FEO for approval, which is granted on proof of need. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bonafide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. Yes. Foreigners residing in Morocco and employed in either the private or public sector or engaged in professions in industry, commerce, and agriculture may transfer up to 50% of their income, whether or not their spouses reside in Morocco. Indicative limits/bonafide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 184 Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits MOROCCO Commercial banks are authorized to transfer retirement pensions provided by public and private agencies in favor of persons residing abroad permanently. No. Retired persons and foreign spouses of Moroccans may transfer up to 50% of their income. They may also freely contribute to their retirement or social security funds in their country of origin. Indicative limits/bona fide test No. Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Transfers relating to remittances for family maintenance are approved upon presenta- tion of documentary evidence. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Residents of Moroccan nationality, including individuals and corporations, must repa- triate foreign exchange receipts accruing from all their noncommercial claims and sur- render them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from their activities in Morocco. Moroccans working abroad must surrender within one month all foreign exchange in their possession, but on departure from Morocco, they may export without restriction foreign banknotes obtained by debiting their accounts in convertible dirhams. If they do not have such an account, they may take out 15% of foreign exchange repatriated and surrendered 12 months before to Moroccan banks up to a limit of DH 20,000. If these facilities are not available, Moroccan residents living abroad may take advantage of the same DH 5,000 tourist allocation that applies to residents. Nonresident travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes, traveler's checks, and other means of payment denominated in foreign currency. Resident travelers may also bring in foreign banknotes in any amount, as well as any other means of payment in foreign exchange but must surrender them within 30 days of their return to Morocco. The importation of domestic banknotes is prohibited. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Capital Transactions 185 Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Proceeds from such sales may also be freely transferred, provided that the relevant purchases are financed by foreign exchange inflows or any comparable means. Purchases of foreign securities by residents of Moroccan nationality and transfers of the funds required for such purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Resi- dents of foreign nationality are free to purchase securities abroad or, generally speak- ing, to constitute assets abroad. Purchases of securities abroad and, generally speaking, the constitution of assets abroad by residents of Moroccan nationality are subject to the approval of the FEO. Sales of such assets are also subject to approval; proceeds of such sales may be reused abroad or repatriated to Morocco. Where the purchase of such instruments or securities is financed by a foreign exchange inflow or by the proceeds of the sale of other securities previously purchased through the surrender of foreign exchange, the convertibility arrangements are applicable. This facilitates the free transfer of disinvestment proceeds, including capital gains, and of income generated by such investment. Purchases require the prior authorization of the FEO, which is granted under certain conditions. On the other hand, residents of foreign nationality are free to engage in operations abroad financed with their foreign exchange holdings. Sale or issue abroad by residents The same regulations as for purchases abroad apply. On collective investment securities The same regulations as for money market instruments apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents The settlement system between Morocco and other countries has not yet developed derivatives such as options, futures, swaps, and so forth. Residents of Moroccan nationality may subscribe to such instruments abroad only with the prior approval of the FEO. Merchandise exporters are free to grant commercial credits to nonresidents for up to 150 days; longer terms may be granted with the approval of the FEO, as required for business purposes. The granting of financial loans by residents to nonresidents is subject to the approval of the FEO. Moroccan banks may issue or accept in favor of residents, sureties issued on behalf of nonresidents, in support of the participation of said nonresidents in public or private contracting, the supply of goods or services, the refund of downpayments, and the substitution of guarantee withholdings, subject to prior approval of the FEO. Similarly, they may issue sureties on behalf of nonresidents, in support of tax liabilities or finan- cial obligations. A counterguarantee from a foreign bank is required for sureties issued by Moroccan banks on behalf of nonresidents. Where claims are entered under sureties ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 186 MOROCCO issued or accepted in favor of residents on behalf of nonresidents, the relevant amounts must be repatriated to Morocco. To residents from nonresidents Provisions of guarantees are allowed on the condition that they are contracted through resident Moroccan banks. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Outward direct investments are subject to the prior approval of the FEO, but residents of foreign nationality are free to invest abroad. Under the convertibility arrangements introduced in favor of inward investment, there are no restrictions on transfers made directly with the banking system of the proceeds of the liquidation or sale of foreign investment, including capital gains. These con- vertibility arrangements support investment financed by foreign exchange inflows or by other similar means. For the liquidation of any investment not falling under these ar- rangements, the relevant proceeds must be deposited in a convertible time deposit ac- count denominated in dirhams. Funds placed therein may be transferred over a five- year period in equal annuities. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreigners cannot purchase properties outside of urban limits. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Commercial banks can only borrow abroad to finance foreign trade or investment operations. A counterguarantee from a foreign bank is required for sureties issued by Moroccan banks on behalf of nonresidents. Where claims are entered under sureties issued or accepted in favor of residents on behalf of nonresidents, the relevant amounts must be repatriated to Morocco. The granting of loans abroad by Moroccan banks is subject to the approval of the FEO. However, banks may use cash held in foreign exchange accounts (maintained by for- eigners, Moroccan nationals residing abroad, and exporters) to finance foreign trade operations and, in particular, the granting of buyer loans in favor of nonresident foreign customers of Moroccan exporters. Purchases are subject to the prior approval of the FEO. Convertible dirham and foreign exchange accounts are excluded from reserve requirements. Liquid asset requirements All deposits are taken into account for the calculation of liquid asset requirements. Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Prior approval by the FEO is required for portfolio investment abroad. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of the Netherlands is the Netherlands guilder. No. Unitary. The Netherlands participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agree- ment, the Netherlands maintains the spot exchange rates between the Netherlands guilder and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15% above and below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. Under a special bilateral agreement, the spot exchange rate of the Netherlands guilder and the deutsche mark is maintained within a fluctuation band of ±2.25%. No. No. Forward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an underlying trade transaction required. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. No. In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, certain restrictions are imposed on financial transactions with Iraq, Libya, and areas of Bosnia and Herze- govina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 188 NETHERLANDS Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency con- Yes. vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. In compliance with the relevant UN Security Council resolutions, funds belonging to Iraq, Libya, and designated persons in areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the con- trol of the Bosnian Serb forces are blocked. Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries (i.e, China, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and Viet- nam), as well as for the importation of goods of unknown origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products, mainly those of the agricultural, steel, and textile sectors. Imports of textiles originating in the Far East and in state trading countries. Imports from Angola, Iraq, and areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces are prohibited. Imports of most products covered by the CAP from non-EU countries are subject to import levies. Common EU regulations are applied to most agricultural and livestock products. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS 189 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Export licenses are required for only a few commodities, mostly of a strategic charac- ter, for some agricultural products, and for iron and steel scrap and related products. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Capital Transactions Inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents are not restricted, but they are subject to reporting requirements based on the External Financial Rela- tions Act of 1994. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in all stocks and bonds listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange take place at official market exchange rates and are unrestricted. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad. Placement with residents of unlisted foreign debentures denominated in guild- ers (such as foreign Euroguilder notes) and transactions in unlisted stocks are free of license. Nonresidents may have their securities, domestic or foreign, exported to them; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are imposed on banks' total position in foreign currency and precious metals. Banks are required to report to the Netherlands Bank their position in each foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 190 NETHERLANDS currency and precious metal (spot, forward, and option positions) at the end of each month. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position as of January 31,1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: August 5, 1982. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Exchange Arrangement The currency of New Zealand is the New Zealand dollar. No. Unitary. The New Zealand dollar is determined on the basis of supply and demand in the for- eign exchange market. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. No. New Zealand notified the IMF on September 6, 1990 that, in compliance with UN Se- curity Council Resolution No. 661 (1990), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to Iraq, and similarly on September 30, 1992, with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992). Since December 3, 1993, and December 9, 1994, certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions pursuant to the UN Security Council resolutions have been imposed with respect to Libya and Bosnia and Herzegovina, respectively. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. No. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 192 NEW ZEALAND Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Import prohibitions and restrictions affect some 70 products or classes of products — primarily plants, animals, and products considered dangerous to human health or not in the public interest. The only tariffs over 20% apply to motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts, and certain other products (including textiles, clothing, footwear, and carpeting). Most tariffs are ad valorem, but specific duties apply to some products. Under the terms of the ANZCERTA and the SPARTECA, imports of qualifying goods enter duty-free from Australia and SPARTECA countries. Eligible imports from developing countries that have not graduated beyond a specified threshold are accorded tariff preferences under the GSP. In addition, duty-free access is given to most imports from 36 least-developed countries. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 193 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Certain items classified as strategic goods may be exported only when specific re- quirements have been met and an export permit has been issued. Many of New Zealand's exports are currently restricted by quotas and other quantitative restrictions imposed by its principal trading partners. For example, exports of lamb and butter to the EU and exports of beef and dairy products to the United States are subject to either quotas or voluntary export restraints. Export taxes No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment No. No. No. No. No. No. Capital Transactions Under the Overseas Investment Regulations of 1995, which took effect on January 15, 1996, there are separate authorization procedures for "nonland" and "land" invest- ments, which apply both to new investors and to existing foreign-controlled firms. Nonland investments involving the acquisition of over 25% of the shares of a New Zealand company and where the consideration exceeds NZ$10 million or which in- volve the purchase of property in excess of NZ$10 million used in carrying on a busi- ness, are subject to a bona fide investor test. Established foreign-controlled enterprises also need approval for investments exceeding NZ$10 million in areas unrelated to that consented to originally. However, since these investors were screened when they first invested, the procedure is straightforward. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 194 NEW ZEALAND Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Foreign investment in certain types of land is subject both to a bona fide investor test and a "national interest" test. Criteria for the national interest test are set out in the relevant legislation. Land acquisitions that require authorization relate to any land ex- ceeding five hectares in area or where the consideration exceeds NZ$10 million, and islands or land containing or adjoining reserves, historic or heritage areas, and the fore- shore of lakes in excess of 0.4 hectares. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: May 11,1967. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Exchange Arrangement The currency of Norway is the Norwegian krone. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Norwegian krone is determined by market forces; however, the Bank of Norway (BN) intervenes to maintain stability. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control No. No. No. Exchange control authorities The BN, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and Customs, exercises control. International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Norway notified the Fund on July 21,1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions with respect to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro); these restrictions have been abolished in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1022 (1995). Restrictions have also been imposed on financial transactions with Libya (in accor- dance with UN Security Council Resolutions No. 661/90 and No. 670/90), and with the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are controlled by the Bosnian Serbs (in accor- dance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 942/94). Restrictions were imposed on financial transactions with Haiti (in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions No. 873/93, No. 841/93, and No. 917/94); these sanctions were subsequently lifted with UN Security Council Resolution No. 944/94. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) No. No. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Exports/imports of banknotes exceeding NKr 25,000, or its equivalent in foreign cur- rency, must be reported to customs authorities. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 196 NORWAY Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency The existence of these accounts must be reported to the BN. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts The existence of these accounts must be reported to the BN. No. Yes. Convertible into foreign currency The existence of these accounts must be reported to the BN. Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list No. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Iraq and Libya are prohibited. All imports from the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are controlled by Bosnian Serbs require licensing. Certain tex- tiles and garments are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Footwear from Taiwan Province of China is subject to licensing requirements. Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Yes. These licenses are required for textiles. Other nontariff measures There are certain measures imposed for sanitary reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY 197 Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Exports subject to regulation are listed and require licenses. Exports to any country under NKr 2,000 are exempt; for arms and ammunition this limit is NKr 500, and for fish and fish products NKr 1,000. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents The restriction applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Foreign exchange banks and financial institutions are subject to exposure regulation and must submit reports on their net foreign currency position to the BN. Net positions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 198 NORWAY Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition of up to 10% of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital may be taken out in individual currencies, and the aggregate position must be kept within 20% of the financial institutions' equity and subordinated loan capital. There are no currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition for in- vestment funds. However, such regulations exist for insurance and pension funds. An insurance or pension fund's net financial assets in a currency has to be equivalent to at least 80% of technical provisions in the same currency at any time. This applies with some modifications. An insurance company cannot have negative financial assets in a currency. Other controls imposed by securities laws Other restrictions are included in Act No. 52 of June 12,1981 on Securities Funds and Rules for Asset Management. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: July 1,1994. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Exchange Arrangement The currency of Pakistan is the Pakistani rupee. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Pakistani rupee is set by the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP). No. No. Yes. Forward exchange cover for private foreign currency deposits is provided by the SBP, which charges an annual fee of 6.3%, 9.7%, 3.9%, and 4.75%, respectively, on depos- its in deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. Yes. Payments to, and receipts from, member countries of the ACU with respect to current transactions are effected in AMUs or in the domestic currency of one of the countries involved. The SBP has delegated authority to a number of banks and financial institutions to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell foreign ex- change for certain purposes within limits prescribed by the SBP. No. No. The exportation of gold is prohibited unless authorized by the SBP; such permission is not usually granted. Imports are allowed through three dealers authorized by the gov- ernment. More dealers are expected to be allowed to import. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 200 PAKISTAN Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency On imports Domestic currency An individual may take out up to PRs 500 and PRs 3,000 to India and to other coun- tries, respectively. An individual may bring in up to PRs 500 from India and PRs 3,000 from other coun- tries. Coins from India may be imported up to Indian Rs 5 a person each time. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. These accounts may be credited with remittances from abroad, traveler's checks, for- eign currency notes, proceeds from foreign exchange bearer certificates (FEBCs), for- eign currency bearer certificates (FCBCs), and dollar bearer certificates (DBCs). Sources of acquisition of foreign exchange are not required to be revealed. However, receipts from exports of goods and services; earnings from services of residents; earn- ings and profits of overseas offices or branches of Pakistani firms or companies and banks; and foreign exchange released from Pakistan for any specified purpose may not be credited to these accounts. Balances held in these accounts are freely transferable abroad, and there are no limits on amounts of withdrawal. These accounts may be per- manently retained, and the rate of interest on term deposits (of three months and up to five years) is fixed by the SBP with the approval of the government. The rates are based on the Eurodollar deposit rate of Barclays Bank, London. The margins over the Eurodollar deposit rates range from 0.75% of 1% for three-month deposits to 2% for five-year deposits. Approval required No. Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Balances of up to $1,000 can be held abroad with the approval of the SBP. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Pakistani nationals residing abroad and foreign nationals, whether residing abroad or in Pakistan, and firms, companies, and charitable bodies owned by persons who are oth- erwise eligible to open foreign currency accounts (FCAs) may open FCAs with banks in Pakistan without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. The accounts may be denominated in deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; credit balances may be transferred abroad; and interest on such ac- counts is exempt from income tax. Deposit holders wishing to make payments in Paki- stan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from their accounts into Pakistan rupees. If Pakistani nationals holding such accounts return to Pakistan, they may retain the accounts permanently. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the for- eign exchange to the SBP. Authorized dealers under the FCA facility may accept term deposits in foreign currency from their overseas branches and foreign banks operating abroad, including financial institutions owned by them; such term deposits must be at least $5 million (or the equivalent in other currencies) for a maturity period of at least ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 201 six months. The rates of interest paid on these deposits may not exceed 0.5% above LIBOR. Approval required No. Domestic currency accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies residing outside Pakistan are desig- nated nonresident accounts. (Different rules apply to the nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to the nonresident rupee ac- counts of banks, on the other hand.) Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresi- dent accounts for nonbank nonresidents without prior SBP approval when the accounts are opened with funds received from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes may be made by authorized banks without prior approval. Convertible into foreign currency When opened as convertible rupee accounts with funds received from abroad. Approval required Blocked accounts No. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian Embassy and its personnel, are blocked. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Imports and Import Payments No. No. Clean-on-board shipped bill of lading and others as per contract or letter of credit are required. Domiciliation requirements Yes. Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Inspection of some items will be required up to March 1997. Yes. Import licenses are not required. Imports from Israel are not allowed. Many of the products on the negative list consist of products banned for religious and health reasons or to discourage consumption of luxury items or goods banned under international agreements. Some products on the negative list fall outside these categories. Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of 34 items on the health and safety list are restricted. Importing of 16 items on the procedural list (e.g., petroleum) requires cer- tain technical expertise. There are generally 12 import tariff rates ranging from 10% to 65%, although 100% to 265% rates are levied on imports of automobiles and alcoholic beverages. Other import charges include a 10% regulatory duty. Tax is withheld at 5% on imports; the withheld amount is the final discharge of tax liability for commercial imports, but it is adjustable for manufacturers. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within four months of shipment. Surrender requirements Proceeds from exports must be surrendered within four months of shipment; in cases where exporters are not required to pay a commission to the overseas buyers/agents or they pay the commission at a rate lower than the permissible rate, they can keep the commission equivalent. The surrender of Afghanis accruing from exports to the Islamic State of Afghanistan is not required. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 202 PAKISTAN Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements The documents required are a firm order and the exporter's registration with the Export Processing Board. Domiciliation Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Yes. Exports to Israel are not allowed. Export licenses are required for some goods, e.g., maize, cement, gram, split gram, and camels. Taxes are levied on very few items, e.g., raw hides, seeds, oil, and cakes. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Other export taxes The standard rate of income tax on export/import proceeds is 1%. It is reduced to 0.75% on exports of goods manufactured in Pakistan, and to 0.5% on exports of certain goods, e.g., jewelry, ceramics, surgical equipment, and sporting goods. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits No. Yes. No. Yes. No. No. Commission, brokerage, and other charges are generally limited to 5% of invoice val- ues, less (1%) for cotton and cement, and more for a few other goods. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Interest payments Prior approval No. Quantitative limits Generally, the limits are set at 5% of the invoice value. Profit/dividends Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits The remittance of dividends declared on current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders if the investment was made on a repatriable basis. The remittance of profits by branches of foreign companies other than banks and those engaged in insur- ance, shipping, and the airline business is permitted without restriction provided that the required documents are submitted to the SEP. The same regulation applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit-and-loss account and accepted for tax pur- poses by the Pakistani income tax authorities. No. Foreign exchange for private travel to countries other than the Islamic State of Af- ghanistan, Bangladesh, and India is granted at the rate of $50 a day for up to 42 days during a calendar year on submission of travel documents to the authorized dealers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 203 Requests for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts are to be referred by the authorized dealers to the SBP, giving justification for the additional amount. Unspent foreign exchange, however, must be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The entitle- ment can be used in installments. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. Exporters of goods with annual export earnings of more than PRs 2.5 million and exporters of serv- ices with annual earnings of more than PRs 0.25 million are granted a renewable busi- ness travel allowance of $200 a day, up to $6,000 a business trip. In addition, business travelers may settle credit card charges of up to $100 a day, subject to a maximum of $3,000 for a 30-day visit, with the encashment of FCBCs. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Foreign workers' wages Pensions Prior approval Approval is required on a case-by-case basis. Foreign exchange allowances for students' tuition fees and expenses as required by institutions may be obtained from authorized dealers without approval from the SBP. No. Allowances for professional training abroad are granted at $1,200 a month. No. No. There is no limit for individuals. For professional and specialized organizations, the limit is PRs 20,000 a calendar year. No. Yes. No. Yes Gambling/prize earnings Remittance of earnings is not allowed. Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Allowances are determined on a case-by-case basis. No. There are no limits if the amount is charged to a foreign currency account of the card- holder. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Within three months. Travel agents and tour agents are permitted to retain up to 5% of their foreign exchange earnings for marketing and related export promotion expenses. Restrictions on use of funds No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 204 Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments PAKISTAN Capital Transactions There are no restrictions on sale of securities purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents are however not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. Residents are allowed to purchase shares abroad and transfer the required funds through the mechanism of FEBCs. Residents can sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the Corporate Law Authority. The proceeds associated with these issues are required to be transferred to Pakistan or used for purchase of plant and machinery abroad. Transfers of funds re- quired to services these security issues are permitted. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions on the sale of securities purchases in Pakistan. Nonresidents are however not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions are not permitted. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents can sell or issue money market instruments after obtaining approval from the Corporate Law Authority. The proceeds associated with these issues are required to be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. Trans- fers of funds required to service these security issues are permitted. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no restrictions on the sale of securities purchased in Pakistan. Nonresidents, however, are not permitted to issue securities in Pakistan. Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents can sell or issue securities after obtaining approval from the Corporate Law Authority. The proceeds associated with these issues are required to be transferred to Pakistan or used for the purchase of plants and machinery abroad. Transfers of funds required to service these security issues are permitted. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Only rights shares exist. Yes. Yes. Yes. Residents are allowed to grant credit to nonresident entities for four months with re- spect to exported goods, and up to 12 1/2 years with respect to the export of plants and machinery. To residents from nonresidents Credit with respect to imports of goods is permitted. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents These credits are not allowed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 205 Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents There are no restrictions if the transaction relates to imports. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Direct investment abroad requires prior approval under foreign exchange laws. Resi- dent Pakistani nationals require prior approval from the SBP to sell movable or im- movable assets held abroad, and liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. Foreigners have been allowed to invest freely without prior government approval in all but the following specified industries: (1) alcohol; (2) arms and ammunitions; (3) se- curity printing; (4) currency and minting; and (5) high explosives and radioactive sub- stances. Controls on liquidation of direct investment There are no restrictions on repatriation abroad of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of permissible direct foreign investment. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Residents are not permitted to purchase real estate abroad. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions spec if ic to ins t i tu t ional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Transactions, except for temporary periods, are allowed only if they become necessary for the normal course of business. Commercial banks and other credit institutions are allowed to maintain foreign ac- counts; limits for balances are fixed by the SBP in relation to the foreign exchange business handled by each bank. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Open position balances in Nostro Accounts are regulated by the SBP. With the specific approval of the SPB, foreign-controlled companies and branches of foreign companies can contract currency loans on a repatriation basis for meeting their working capital requirements. Additional rupee loans/overdrafts on a matching basis are also permitted by the SBP against such foreign currency loans. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance; February 15,1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Exchange Arrangement The currency of Peru is the nuevo sol. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the nuevo sol is determined freely by supply and demand. Cross rates with nondollar currencies are determined against the U.S. dollar. No. No. Forward exchange market Only the commercial banking sector operates in the forward market. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements No. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the Domini- can Republic, Ecuador, Malaysia, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru (CRBP) and the other central banks concerned within the framework of the multi- lateral clearing system of the LAIA. Exchange houses are authorized to purchase foreign exchange and traveler's checks from residents and nonresidents and to sell foreign exchange for tourism abroad and for purchases by nonresidents. Borrowing abroad by the public sector and by the private sector with government guarantee is subject to prior approval by supreme decree within the limits established by the Financing Requirement Law of the public sector. International security restrictions No. Payments arrears Arrears are maintained with respect to external payments on nonguaranteed credits of suppliers, and commercial banks, and official loans obtained from Eastern European countries. Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Yes. No. No. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Resident Accounts 207 Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports No. No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Import licenses and other nontariff measures Legislation has been enacted requiring preinspection at the port of embarkation by international firms for imports exceeding $2,000. However, this is not a requirement for the release of foreign exchange. Negative list Certain imports are prohibited for social, health, or security reasons. Import taxes and/or tariffs Imported goods are subject to a uniform value-added tax of 18% of the c.i.f. value of imports in addition to the import duty. Some agricultural products are exempted from the value-added tax. The tariff on about 13% of import items is at a 25% rate, and re- maining products are subject to a 15% rate, excluding imports subject to trade agree- ments. Raw materials and intermediate goods imported under the Temporary Admis- sion Regime are exempt from import duties. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 208 PERU Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes No. No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Public debt service payments are subject to payment authorization. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Bonds issued by a domestic bank that are in foreign currency, of a maturity shorter than one year, and placed in a foreign country, are subject to the minimum reserve require- ment of 9%, which can range up to 30% of the issuing entitys capital. These issues must be followed by a first-class foreign underwriter or arranger. The placement of amounts above the 30% limit is subject to the general reserve requirements. No. No. No No. Foreign investment by petroleum companies is subject to special contracts with the government. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Credits granted by resident banks to nonresident banks or other financial institutions as well as deposit accounts held in these nonresident institutions cannot exceed the following limits relative to the institution's effective capital: (1) 5% if the financial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU 209 institution is not supervised by an entity similar to the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance Companies of Peru; (2) 10% if the nonresident financial institution is supervised by an entity similar to the Superintendency of Banks and Insurance Companies of Peru; (3) 30% if the financial institution is a first-class bank; and (4) 50% if the excess in each of the preceding cases corresponds to letters of credit, excluding those corresponding to payment agreements and reciprocal credits. Also, contingent credits and leasing granted by resident banks to nonresident individu- als or institutions, excluding institutions covered by the General Law for Banking, Financial, and Insurance Institutions, cannot exceed 5% of their effective capital. The above limits can be raised to 10% for the following if guarantees are provided for the excess over the limit: (1) mortgages; and (2) securities issued by an institution listed in the stock market and whose quality is guaranteed by the specialized institution in that country. On a very limited basis, the limits of 5% and 10% can be raised to 40% of the effective equity for the following if guarantees are provided for the excess over the limit: (1) deposits in the bank; and (2) securities, guarantees, and other liabilities of a bank with an arrangement under the Payment Agreement and Reciprocal Credits or with a first-class nonresident bank. The deposit accounts in foreign currency are subject to a marginal reserve requirement of 45%. However, the CRBP remunerates the additional reserve requirement (36 per- centage points) with the three-month LIBOR rate. The other 9 percentage points of the obligatory reserve requirement are not remunerated. This requirement is applied to all deposit accounts and does not discriminate between residents and nonresidents. Also, domestic currency obligations of financial institutions linked to changes in the ex- change rate and domestic currency deposits related to swap operations are subject to 45% of the reserve requirement. The limit for pension funds is 5% of the fund. A maximum of 40% in government and central bank securities jointly or a maximum of 30% for each; 40% in deposits or in financial system bonds jointly (or 30% and 25% individually, respectively); 40% in other mortgage securities; 10% in short-term finan- cial instruments; 35% in private enterprise bonds; and 30% jointly (or 30% respec- tively) in mutual funds, derivatives, convertible stocks, labor stocks, and representative stocks of social capital. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: September 8,1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the Philippines is the Philippine peso. Various denominations of gold coins are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange rates are determined on the basis of demand and supply in the foreign ex- change market. However, the authorities intervene when necessary to maintain orderly conditions in the market and in light of their other policy objectives in the medium term. Commercial banks trade in foreign exchange through the Philippine Dealing System (PDS) or by telephone. The PDS has a mechanism in place to limit undue volatility in the exchange rate; if the peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate changes by more than 1.5% from the average rate on the previous days trades, trading is halted for two hours. At the end of that period, trading resumes and will be interrupted again only if the exchange rate diverges again by more than 1.5% from the average rate struck in the same day's session prior to the interruption. No. No. All forward transactions, including renewals thereof, from nonresidents require prior approval of the Central Bank of the Philippines (CBP). Official cover of forward operations A forward exchange cover scheme exists for oil import payments with a cover period of 90 days. Prescription of currency requirements Arrangements for Payments and Receipts There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all ex- change proceeds from exports and invisibles must be obtained in prescribed currencies such as Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Bahrain dinars, Belgian francs, Brunei dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche marks, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indone- sian rupiahs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Malaysian ringgit, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, Thai baht, U.A.E. dirhams, U.S. dollars, and other such currencies that may be declared acceptable by the CBP. Payments may be made in pesos for exports to ASEAN coun- tries, provided that the CBP is not asked to intervene in the clearing of any balances from this payment scheme. Authorized agent banks may accept notes denominated in the prescribed currencies for conversion into pesos. Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements No. No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Exchange regulations are administered by the CBP on the basis of policy decisions adopted by the Monetary Board. International security restrictions No. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 211 Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Small-scale miners are required to sell all of their production to the CBP. All forms or types of gold may be bought and sold without specific approval of the CBP. Producers selling gold to the CBP are paid in Philippine pesos on the basis of the latest London fixing price and the prevailing Philippine peso-U.S. dollar exchange rate. The gold so acquired is deemed to be part of official international reserves. The CBP may sell gold grains, pellets, bars, and sheets to local jewelry manufacturers and other industrial users upon application, or to banks only for resale to jewelry manufacturers and indus- trial users, at the CBFs gold selling price plus a service fee to cover costs, including the cost of conversion and packaging. The exportation of gold in any form, except that produced by small-scale miners, is permitted. There are no restrictions on the importation of gold, except coin blanks es- sentially of gold, gold coins, and coins without any indication of actual fineness of gold content. Resident and nonresident travelers must have prior authorization from the CBP to take out more than P10,000 in domestic banknotes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Departing nonresidents are allowed to reconvert at airports or other ports of exit un- spent pesos up to a maximum of $200 or an equivalent amount in other foreign ex- change without proof of sales of foreign exchange to authorized agent banks. Travelers may bring in freely up to PI0,000 in domestic banknotes and coins, checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Importation exceeding that amount requires prior authorization from the CBP. Foreign currency Travelers may bring in freely any amount of foreign currency. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Nonresident accounts may be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income earned from the Philippines belonging to nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 212 PHILIPPINES Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Preshipment inspection Letters of credit No. Yes. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawal. Conversion of do- mestic currency accounts is allowed up to $25,000. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Commercial banks may sell foreign exchange for payments of imports under letters of credit (LC), documents against acceptance (D/A), documents against payments (D/P), open account (O/A) arrangement, and direct remittance. Registration of D/A and O/A imports with the CBP for monitoring purposes is needed only if payments are to be made from the banking system; prior approval of the CBP, regardless of maturity, is not required. Any extension of maturities must be reported to the CBP 30 days before the effective date. Import arrangements not involving payments using foreign exchange purchased from the banking system, such as self-funded/no-dollar imports, and impor- tation on a consignment basis, are allowed without prior approval from the CBP. Under the Comprehensive Imports Supervision Scheme (CISS), preshipment inspection is required for imports valued at more than $500 from all countries. Imports declared in the shipping documents as off quality, used, secondhand, scraps, off grade, or a similar term indicating that the article is not brand new are subject to CISS inspection even if the value of the imports is less than $500. LCs must be opened on or before the date of shipment with a validity period of up to one year. Only one LC may be opened for each import transaction; amendments to such an arrangement need not be referred to the CBP for prior approval except when the amendment shall extend the total validity of the LC beyond one year. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Generally, all merchandise imports are allowed without a license. Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Yes. The importation of certain products is regulated or restricted for reasons of public health and safety, national security, international commitments, and development and protection of local industries. Commodity imports are classified into three categories: freely importable, regulated, and prohibited. To import regulated products, a clearance permit is required from the appropriate government agency (including the CBP). Quantitative restrictions are imposed on imports of corn, wheat, and certain other agri- cultural products, with the exception of rice. The import tariff structure consists of four rates: 3%, 10%, 20%, and 30%. Rates on imported capital goods are 3% and 10%, with the former applying to goods without domestic substitutes. Deviations from the standard rates include: (1) up to double the applicable standard rate for imports of final goods in industries that have "pioneer" status at the Board of Investment (BOI) and imports of agricultural products for which quantitative restrictions are being removed under the WTO agreement; (2) duty ex- emptions for certain imported capital goods registered with BOI prior to January 1, 1995 or subject to provisions of RA 7369 and RA 7844 under the Export Development Act. Some 300 products under RA 7369 are duty exempt, as are imports of machinery, equipment, and accompanying spare parts used in export manufacture. The BOI no longer offers tax and duty exemptions on imports of capital equipment and spare parts. Instead, newly registered firms may only obtain duty reductions on eligible imports to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 213 3%. Tariff rates in the textiles and apparel sector are 3% for inputs and 30% for final products. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes No. No. No. No. Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Payments for exports may be made in prescribed currencies under the following forms without prior CBP approval: LCs, documents against payments, documents against acceptance, open account arrangements, cash against documents arrangements, con- signment, export advance, and prepayment. All exports must be covered by export declarations duly prepared by the exporter. Exports of selected seeds and shoots of native plants, endangered fish and wildlife (including selected marine species), and stalactites and stalagmites are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange to residents for these payments up to $25,000; for larger amounts they must receive a written application and supporting documents from the buyer. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 214 Interest payments Prior approval PHILIPPINES Service payments relating to foreign loans effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to tho^e transactions whose original capital transfer has previously been registered with the CBP. Unregistered loans can be serv- iced also through transactions in the nonbank market. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No. No. Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Service payments relating to foreign direct investments effected by purchases of foreign exchange through authorized agent banks are limited to those transactions whose origi- nal capital transfer has previously been registered with the CBP. Unregistered invest- ments can be serviced also through transactions in the nonbank market. No. No. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 215 Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Registration with the CBP or designated custodian bank. As a general rule, registration with the CBP of foreign investments in the form of government securities, securities listed on the Philippine Stock Exchange (PSE), money market instruments or bank deposits is not mandatory. Such registration is necessary only if the source of the for- eign exchange needed for capital repatriation and remittance of dividends, profits and earnings which accrue thereon is from the banking system. The sale or issue of securities in the country is allowed only after the proper license to do business in the country is secured by the nonresident from the appropriate govern- ment agency(ies). Residents may invest abroad without registering their investments with the CBP only if (1) the investment is funded by withdrawals from Foreign Currency Deposit Units (FCDU); (2) the funds to be invested are not among those required to be sold to authorized agent banks (AABs) for pesos; or (3) the sources of funds are from the banking system but in amounts less than $6 million in an inventory year. For amounts above $6 million (an investor a year), prior discretionary approval is needed from the CBP Monetary Board. Registration with the CBP or designated custodian bank is required. In addition, proceeds of the sale of an international allocation of initial public offerings (IPOs) and shares of domestic companies listed in foreign stock exchanges must also be reported to the CBP within five days from receipt and remitted inwardly to the country. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 216 PHILIPPINES servicing or transfer of funds pertaining to registered investments using foreign exchange from the banking system in this category is allowed without CBP approval. On money market instruments The same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. On collective investment securities The same regulations apply as for capital market securities. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Prior CBP approval is required. Only banks and nonbank financial intermediaries per- forming quasi-banking functions and their affiliates/subsidiaries duly authorized by the CBP are allowed to deal in derivative transactions. Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No controls are applied except when credit involves the export of regulated or prohib- ited commodities. No prior CBP approval is required for specified commercial transac- tions. Prior CBP approval and registration are required for guaranteed, short-term trade re- lated loans contracted by nonbank residents. For those not covered by public sector guarantees, prior authority to incur the obligation is not required. They are still, how- ever, subject to the registration requirement for debt servicing using foreign exchange from the banking system. Credits require prior CBP approval. The usual control on outward remittances and registration requirements apply. As a general rule, all foreign loans contracted by nonbank residents with guarantees from the public sector or from local commercial banks, require prior CBP approval or registration. Those that are not covered by guarantees are required to be registered only to make them eligible for subsequent debt servicing using foreign exchange from the banking system. Guarantees for the accounts of the public sector as well as those issued by government- owned and controlled corporations in favor of nonresidents require prior CBP approval. Specific guarantees for the account of the private sector do not require prior approval but must be reported to the CBP for registration purposes to be eligible for servicing using foreign exchange. Guarantees issued by foreign banks and financial institutions to secure obligations of residents who have borrowed aborad require prior CBP approval. Those issued to secure authorized peso loans or FCDU loans as well as foreign obligations (or other than foreign loans) of local firms do not require prior CBP approval but must be reported to the CBP for registration purposes to be eligible for servicing using foreign exchange to be purchased from the banking system in the event of a default by the principal obligator. Controls on direct investment The same regulations apply as for investments in money market instruments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES 217 Outward direct investment Yes. Controls on liquidation of direct investment CBP-registered foreign investments enjoy full and immediate repatriation of capital and remittance of profits, dividends, and other earnings. Controls on real estate transactions The same regulations apply as for investments in money market instruments. Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Sale locally by nonresidents For the sale of real estate by nonresidents not pertaining to CBP-registered invest- ments, they may purchase foreign exchange only to the extent shown to have been sold by them for pesos to AABs. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Commercial banks authorized to operate under the expanded foreign currency deposit system may borrow from other FCDUs, nonresidents, and offshore banking units, sub- ject to existing rules on foreign borrowings. Banks may grant commercial credit to nonresidents under any of the following modes of payment without prior CBP approval: (1) LCs; (2) D/Ps or cash against payment; (3) D/As; (4) O/As; (5) intercompany open account offset; (6) consignment; and (7) export advances. No bank or NBQB may grant, or maintain, outstanding peso loans to a foreign firm except upon presentation of a valid certification from the Inter-Agency Committee. The following foreign currency loans may be granted by FCDUs of commercial banks without prior CBP approval: (1) private sector loans, if to be serviced using foreign exchange to be sourced outside the banking system; (2) short-term loans to financial institutions for normal interbank transactions; (3) short-term loans to commodity and service exporters and producers/manufacturers, provided that the loan proceeds are to be used to finance import cost of goods and services necessary in the production of goods. Regular units of commercial banks may also grant foreign currency loans to residents arising from trade transactions. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange An Expanded Foreign Currency Deposit Unit (EFCDU) of commercial banks may in- vest in foreign-currency-denominated securities. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to inst itut ional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Other controls imposed by securities laws Depository banks operating FCDUs or EFCDUs need to maintain full cover for their foreign currency liabilities at all times. For FCDUs, not less than 70% of the said cover must be maintained in the same currency of the liability and 30% or less may be de- nominated in other acceptable foreign currencies. Long and short foreign exchange positions of banks must not exceed 20% and 10%, respectively, or their total unim- paired capital. Any excess beyond the limit must be settled daily. The total equity investments in, and/or loans to, any single enterprise abroad by any investment house with quasi-banking functions shall not at any time exceed 15% of their net worth, unless authorized by the Monetary Board. As a general rule, no securities shall be sold or offered for sale to the public within the country unless such securities have been registered and permitted to be sold by the SEC. A foreign corporation whose securities are listed and traded in a local stock ex- change must designate a transfer agent and registrar in the Philippines. As a general rule, a broker, dealer, or salesman must register with the SEC to do business in the country. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of Acceptance: June 1, 1995. Exchange Arrangement Currency The currency of Poland is the zloty; 100 groszy equal one zloty. New currency notes and coins were issued on January 1, 1995, replacing the old currency at a rate of 1 to 10,000. (Old currency remained in circulation until the end of 1996.) Other legal tender Coins made from precious metals are also legal tender. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Inoperative Other payments arrangements The central exchange rate of the zloty is pegged to a basket of five currencies that fluctuates within a ±7% band around the central exchange rate and crawls at a prean- nounced rate. The National Bank of Poland (NBP) quotes exchange rates for the ECU, the SDR, and the currencies of 28 countries considered market-oriented economies. Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are set daily and are based on the quoted rate for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the relevant currencies in international markets. Transactions between the NBP and commercial banks are conducted in the interbank market. Banks are permitted to set buying and selling rates within a margin of 2% around the market rate, and their transactions with the NBP take place at the market rate. Natural persons are allowed to transact freely in the foreign exchange bureau market, provided that the transaction is not a commercial one. No. No. There are no formal forward exchange market arrangements, but a forward market exists for the stock market. However, large commercial banks provide forward con- tracts if requested. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Outstanding balances under the existent bilateral payments agreements are being set- tled in accordance with the terms of the agreements. Balances outstanding under the arrangements of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation are still being settled in transferable rubles. Settlements with all other currencies may be made in any con- vertible currency. Since January 1, 1991, nearly all trade with the member countries of the former CMEA has been settled in convertible currencies; a limited amount of trade, both under preexisting contracts and in settlement of ruble balances outstanding at the end of 1990, continues to be transacted in transferable rubles. There are agreements with Bangladesh, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, the Islamic Re- public of Iran, Lebanon, and Turkey. Clearing agreements There are inoperative agreements with members of the former CMEA. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency POLAND 219 Parliament has authority to enact foreign exchange laws; the Ministry of Finance has authority to promulgate implementing regulations; the NBP has authority to issue individual permits, where required. The authority to enforce foreign exchange regulations rests with the Minister of Finance, who exercises related functions mainly through the president of the NBP. However, decisions concerning individual foreign exchange permits are subject to appeal to the Supreme Administrative Court. Poland notified the Fund that, in compliance with UN Security Council resolutions, it had imposed certain restrictions on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Yes. No. Resident individuals may hold gold in any form; trading in gold, other than in jewelry form, is subject to permission from the NBP. Polish and foreign nationals may take abroad gold coins that bear value in foreign ex- change. They may also bring into Poland coins made from precious metals that are legal tender in Poland. Only one enterprise, Jubiler, has general permission to buy and sell in gold in any form. Residents can take out banknotes and coins not exceeding Zl 5 million a person with- out approval; nonresidents are not allowed to export domestic currency. Residents not having currency "A" accounts can export up to $2,000 or the equivalent; those with A accounts can export the balance on these accounts. Nonresidents can ex- port up to the amount they brought into the country. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Yes. Resident Accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign Exchange Accounts for Foreign Settlements (RODs) may be maintained; for- eign exchange accumulated in ROD accounts before January 1, 1990 may be retained in these accounts. Foreign exchange receipts from exports, which before December 10, 1996 had to be surrendered, can be deposited in these accounts. A accounts may be maintained and may be credited freely with convertible currencies brought in or transferred from abroad without declaring sources of funds; balances may be debited for any purpose without restriction, including conversion at prevailing ex- change rates in foreign exchange bureau markets, but may not be used to effect settle- ments between individuals or for business activity. When leaving the country perma- nently, individuals are allowed, under the general foreign exchange permit, to transfer all funds from this account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 220 POLAND Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Yes. Accounts maintained in deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars in demand deposits earn interest at an annual rate of 2.5% to 4%; accounts maintained in these currencies in one-, two-, and three-year term deposits earn interest at an annual rate of 2.5%. Resident individuals and enterprises who dem- onstrate proof of need may hold foreign exchange accounts abroad with the permission of the NBP. Under the general foreign exchange permit, such an account may also be held by enterprises earning foreign exchange from performing specific contracts. Bal- ances in these accounts may not exceed $100,000. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Nonresident Accounts Same regulations as those applying to juridical persons apply. Convertible currency "C" accounts may be maintained; they may be credited with funds brought in or transferred to Poland, transferred from other C accounts, and with con- vertible currencies legally acquired in Poland; balances may be transferred abroad without restriction and may be used to make gifts to residents. Approval required Yes. Domestic currency accounts Zloty accounts may be opened with a declaration of sources of funds; accounts may also be credited with zloty balances converted from foreign exchange. The funds earn inter- est in foreign currency at the same rates as funds in the A accounts. Permits for conversion back into foreign exchange or for foreign exchange transfers abroad are normally granted. These accounts do not pay interest; however, nonresidents may also deposit their earnings in savings accounts, on which interest is paid. Balances in zloty accounts may be transferred to nonresidents or residents with foreign exchange permits, except for gift payments to residents. Permits for transfers to nonresidents are granted only for transfers to family members. Permits for transfers to residents are granted without restriction. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports No. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 221 Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses are not required from the convertible currency area, with the exception of imports of radioactive and military equipment, dairy products, alcoholic beverages other than beer, and coal. Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Importation of certain alcoholic beverages, passenger cars older than 10 years, trucks, vans, utility cars older than six years, and cars with two-cycle engines is prohibited. Imports of certain mineral oils, tobacco products, and alcoholic beverages are subject to quotas. Some special regulations pertain to border trade with the Baltic countries, Russia, and other countries of the former Soviet Union. There are six basic ad valorem import tariffs: duty-free for equipment for the disabled, mineral resources, textiles, and cattle hides; zero to 5% on other raw materials; 7% to 13% on basic parts of semifinished and finished goods; 17% to 29% on industrial goods; 25% to 40% on agricultural and textile products; and 29% to 43% on luxury goods. Imports from developing countries are granted preferential treatment under the GSP, and imports of some products and from some developing countries enter duty free. Imports are also subject to a surcharge of Zl 50,000 and an additional 6% turnover tax; alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, fuels, and automobiles are exempt from the turnover tax. Duties and turnover taxes on imports for export production are refunded. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Proceeds should be repatriated within two months of receipt. Surrender requirements No. Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Licenses are required for exports carried out within the framework of international agreement that stipulate bilateral settlements, and for temporary exports of capital goods and transport equipment for leasing. Licenses are required for items subject to import restrictions by other countries and ferrous waste and scrap. Exports of protein feed and oats, and, on a temporary basis, some alcoholic products, dairy products, some mineral oils, and natural gas are prohibited. Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Unloading/storage costs Administrative expenses Commissions Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No. No. No. No. Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 222 Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits POLAND Yes. Profits on direct investment by nonresidents, other than those from joint ventures, or the acquisition of shares in Polish companies, may be transferred abroad without re- striction. If the investment yields a net surplus in convertible currency in any fiscal year, up to 50% of the surplus may be transferred abroad, provided that the transfer does not exceed 50% of net profits after taxes. The Minister of Finance may permit a transfer in excess of 50% of the surplus. On liquidation, the investor may transfer abroad the proceeds from the sale of the remaining assets sold in foreign currency. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits No. Business travelers may take out up to the equivalent of $10,000; additional amounts may be taken out only upon proof of need. Other resident travelers are permitted to take out up to $2,000 or the equivalent in convertible foreign currencies. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. No. No. Yes. Yes. Indicative limits/bona fide test Allowances for costs of court or arbitration proceedings are authorized up to $20,000 a case; and for costs of obtaining legal counsel and trial representation, up to $50,000. Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 223 Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Proceeds must be repatriated within two months of receipt or within two months of returning to Poland. Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments NBP's approval is required for purchases, sales, or issue of these instruments by resi- dents abroad. Capital Transactions Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents With a permit, exports of goods (other than fuels and raw materials) and services may be financed by a credit of up to the equivalent of $1 million with repayment terms of up to 360 days. To residents from nonresidents With a permit, imports with a value of up to the equivalent of $1 million may also be financed by a credit with repayment terms of up to three years. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for residents granting commercial credits to nonresident entities, with the exception of authorized banks. An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for residents contracting financial credits with nonresidents with the exception of (1) credits granted by authorized banks; (2) credits granted to residents by international banks guaranteed by the Council of Minis- ters or the NBP for financing investments in the country; and (3) credits contracted by residents in foreign banks abroad for economic activity with a maturity of up to one year from the day of contracting the credit. An NBP foreign exchange permit is required with the exception of (1) guarantees or sureties provided by authorized banks; (2) guarantees and sureties provided by resi- dents to nonresidents for performing financial obligations under the purchase of goods, services, and incorporeal rights; and (3) guarantees and sureties for performances ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 224 POLAND Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) financial obligations of residents under foreign contracts for goods, services and incor- poreal rights. An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for outward direct investments by resi- dents, with the exception of the following situations: (1) purchasing shares and inter- ests of companies based in member states and in the countries with which Poland has ratified agreements on the mutual safeguard of investments with the total value of in- vestment up to the equivalent of ECU 1 million and with shares comprising at least 10% of the total votes at respective shareholders meetings; and (2) purchasing or opening of a branch or company in OECD member states. Controls on inward direct investments by nonresidents in the country are not subject to foreign exchange laws and regulations. Inward foreign investments are regulated by the provisions of the Act on Companies with Foreign Capital participation of 1991. Under this law, new businesses need to register only with local courts, except for investments in the areas of seaports, airports, real estate transactions, defense, legal services, and wholesale trade in imported products, all of which continue to require permits. Imports of capital goods for new joint ventures are exempt from customs duties. Investors in certain priority sectors and investments exceeding ECU 2 million a year are also eligi- ble for tax concessions. The 10% ceiling on purchases of shares of privatization issues has been abolished, and a permit is not required unless such shares relate to the above- mentioned sectors. Although the 1991 law does not stipulate a minimum amount of capital that foreign nationals must invest in Poland, the minimum capital requirement set forth in the Polish commercial code for a limited liability company and a joint-stock company is in effect and is applied to foreign investment. The transfer of profits from joint ventures and from investments in shares of Polish companies is not restricted, and invested capital may be repatriated once outstanding obligations to creditors are discharged. An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for the purchase abroad by residents (natural persons) of real estate located abroad at the price on the day of such purchase totaling in excess of the equivalent of ECU 50,000, and for the transfer abroad of the foreign currency required for the purchase of such real estate. Purchase of real estate is regulated by the provisions of the Act on Companies with Foreign Capital Participation. An NBP foreign exchange permit is required for the transfer abroad by nonresidents of the proceeds associated with the sale of real estate converted into foreign currency. Banks authorized for foreign exchange operations may borrow abroad, as provided by the Banking Law Act and the authorization for foreign exchange operations granted by the president of the NBP to the banks on the basis of the act on the NBP. Banks authorized for foreign exchange operations are permitted to open and maintain accounts abroad, as provided by the Banking Law Act and the authorizations for foreign exchange operations granted by the president of the NBP to the banks on the basis of the act of the NBP. Banks authorized for foreign exchange operations are permitted to grant loans, and financial and commercial credits to nonresidents—as provided by the Banking Law Act and the authorizations for foreign exchange operations granted by the president of the NBP to the banks on the basis of the act on the NBP. Banks are permitted to purchase securities abroad within the limits specified in the regulation by the president of the NBP on the kinds of securities issued abroad to be purchased by the authorized banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution POLAND 225 Lending locally in foreign exchange Banks are permitted to lend locally in foreign currency, as provided by the Banking Law Act and legal acts based thereupon. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Banks are permitted to purchase locally issued securities denominated in foreign cur- rency under prudential procedures provided for in the Banking Law Act. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits on banks' open foreign currency positions are provided in the regulation by the president of the NBP on the establishment of normative provisions for permissible foreign exchange risk in banking activities. A bank's open (net) foreign currency position (long or short) in relation to a single foreign currency may not exceed 15% of the bank's capital. The president of the NBP, on the bank's motion, may consent to a foreign currency paid in consideration for equity to be included in computation of the bank's foreign currency position. There are no pension funds in Poland. Insurance companies operate under the Act on Insurance Activity, which governs the operations of insurance companies with nonresidents. These companies are not affected by the foreign exchange operations in the country, and the Minister of Finance's per- mision is required to commence insurance business. The Minister of Finance's permis- sion is required for investments by nonresidents in insurance companies through shares allowing for 25%, 33%, 50%, 60%, 75% of votes, respectively, in general sharehold- ers' meetings. Currently, there are restrictions on start-up operations of foreign insur- ance companies in the country (they will be permitted to operate as of January 1999 under the permission of the Minister of Finance). Prudential regulations establishing limits for investment of insurance funds in the country and abroad are provided by the Act on Insurance Activity. Trust funds operate in the country under the Act on Public Securities Trading and Trust Funds. Nonresidents are allowed to invest in participating units issued by trust funds. There are no foreign exchange restrictions on the transfer abroad by nonresidents of foreign currency purchases against Polish currency associated with remission of par- ticipating units in trust funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIH Date of acceptance: September 12,1988. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Exchange Arrangement The currency of Portugal is the Portuguese escudo. No. Unitary. Cooperative arrangement Portugal participates in the ERM of the EMS. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. There are no exchange controls. Foreign trade policy is implemented by the Ministry of Economy. The Du^&o-Geral do Comercio in this ministry is responsible for adminis- tering trade controls and for issuing import and export licenses, declarations, and cer- tificates. Portugal notified the IMF on September 12, 1990 that certain restrictions were imposed on payments and transfers for current international transactions to residents or nation- als of Iraq. In addition, the movements of any funds in Portugal that are controlled by public authorities or companies of Libya are prohibited. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes A customs declaration is required for amounts exceeding Esc 2.5 million. The exportation or importation by residents or nonresidents of banknotes or coins and traveler's checks exceeding the equivalent of Esc 2.5 million must be declared to customs. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 227 Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency con- Yes. vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Imports of certain products are subject to an import license and are allowed under spe- cific conditions, or are prohibited for reasons of health, public order, or the prevention of commercial fraud. For agricultural products covered by the common agricultural policy of the EU, the EU may require an import certificate. A few industrial products, such as steel products and some textiles and clothing, are subject to EU import restric- tions when they originate in certain third countries. A more extensive restricted list applying to China includes some textiles and a small number of finished products. Imports subject to quantitative restrictions require an import license. Generally, li- censes are valid for six months for customs clearance purposes. For products under EU surveillance, the appropriate import documents, when required, are issued for statistical purposes, and are granted automatically in four or five days. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Yes. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 228 PORTUGAL Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses No. No. No. No. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Restrictions apply in the case of the introduction of foreign securities issued by resi- dents of a non-EU member country and which are not quoted on a recognized market of the issuer's country or of the country in which they are issued. No. No. Foreign direct investments are permitted in all sectors except those that, under general law, are closed to private enterprise corporations. Foreign direct investment operations are submitted to a register that should be fulfilled within a time period of 30 days after the operation has been made. The projects with special interest to the Portuguese econ- omy are covered by a separate and contractual regime. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL 229 Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Yes. Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition There is a requirement of 80% of currency matching of assets owned by insurance companies and pension funds. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Ministry of Finance issues regulations on the eligible assets of insurance compa- nies and pension funds and of securities investment funds in accordance with Directive No. 05/611. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article XIV Yes. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of Romania is the Romanian leu (plural lei). The convertible ruble continues to be used as a unit of account for outstanding CMEA balances. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar (the reference exchange rate) is determined in the interbank foreign exchange market. The National Bank of Romania (NBR) does not intervene in the exchange market except to smooth out fluctuations in exchange rates and to build up foreign exchange reserves. Only commercial banks authorized by the NBR can participate in the exchange market. Juridical persons other than author- ized commercial banks may purchase or sell foreign exchange through authorized banks. The NBR quotes rates for 23 other currencies based on the rates for these cur- rencies against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned, and for the ECU. Foreign exchange bureaus conduct transactions only in foreign currency banknotes and trav- eler's checks and only with natural persons, and are free to set their exchange rates. Forward exchange market Yes. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Other payments arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Payments to and from countries with which Romania has bilateral payments arrange- ments are made only in the currency and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those arrangements. Albania, Bangladesh, China, Egypt, Ghana, Greece, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Pakistan and some former CMEA countries. There are clearing arrangements with the former CMEA countries, but they are only operative to settle previous balances. The NBR issues rules and regulations related to the control of foreign exchange trans- actions, and authorizes all capital transfers, including those connected with inheri- tances and the liquidation of capital assets owned by foreign natural persons. The Ministry of Finance grants visas for pension payments abroad. Domestic commer- cial banks are authorized by the NBR to conduct foreign exchange transactions abroad for current international transactions and are permitted to have foreign banks as corre- spondents or to borrow directly abroad with NBR authorization. Payments arrears No. 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 231 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade NBR has sole authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner. It may grant permission to do so to certain juridical persons. Controls on external trade Only the NBR can conduct external trade transactions. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency The maximum amount of domestic banknotes that can be brought into or taken out of Romania is lei 100,000 a person a trip in denominations no larger than lei 5,000. Resident natural persons may take out foreign exchange in the form of banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of $5,000 a person a trip to effect current transactions; no documentation is required for amounts up to $1,000. Amounts between $1,001 and $5,000 have to be documented. Natural persons must make all transfers exceeding $5,000 through banks. Physical resident persons representing juridical persons with international transport or tourism activity may take out of the country up to the equiva- lent of $10,000. Amounts not converted into lei may be taken out of the country if they were brought in by foreigners. The maximum amount of domestic banknotes that can be brought into or taken out of Romania is lei 100,000 a person a trip in denominations no larger than lei 5,000. The maximum amount of foreign currency banknotes and coins that natural persons may bring into Romania is the equivalent of $10,000 a person a trip. Natural persons who are Romanian or foreign citizens staying in the country temporarily and who enter Romania in possession of more than the equivalent of $1,000 in foreign currency banknotes are required to declare the excess amount. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Yes. Yes. No. Juridical persons can open these accounts with NBR approval, but natural persons are allowed to do so only if they receive foreign exchange income abroad. Approval required Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 232 ROMANIA Import licenses and other nontariff measures Imports, in general, are not subject to licensing. Both the Ministry of Trade and Tour- ism and the Ministry of Finance may take measures to restrict imports for purposes of protecting the balance of payments, or for reasons of public health, national defense, and state security, in accordance with the provisions of the WTO. Negative list Yes. Import taxes and/or tariffs Import tariff rates are ad valorem and range up to 343%. A differential import sur- charge is levied on certain agricultural products. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Repatriation requirements Resident juridical persons must maintain foreign exchange export proceeds in accounts opened at domestic commercial banks or foreign commercial banks authorized to oper- ate in Romania but are free to use the balances in these accounts. Surrender requirements No. Export licenses With quotas Certain goods (including timber, livestock, sunflower seeds, maize, certain mineral oils, chemical fertilizers, and copper alloys) are subject to export quotas. Exports of some goods (including wheat, butter, a few hydrocarbon products, certain minerals, blood products, logs and wood products, and scrap metals) have been suspended. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Profit/dividends Quantitative limits No documentation is required for amounts of $1,000 or less. Amounts between $1,001 and $5,000 have to be documented. Natural persons must make all transfers exceeding $5,000 through banks. Transfers to banks abroad for current operations may also be made from the accounts of natural persons domiciled permanently in Romania and from the accounts of other Romanian juridical persons, except in special cases requiring prior authorization from the NBR; such authorization is granted on a case-by-case ba- sis. Banks may not limit the volume of bona fide current operations. Foreign investors can transfer abroad the entire amount of their share of profits earned in convertible currencies or in lei, and, with the authorization of the fiscal authorities and the NBR, part of their share of annual profits earned in lei and converted into con- vertible currency. The total or partial proceeds in convertible currencies from sales of stocks, shares, bonds, and other securities, as well as from the liquidation of invest- ments, and on the proceeds in lei from the liquidation of investments in freely con- vertible currencies, on imported machinery, equipment, installations, means of trans- port, and any other goods in kind constituted as participation of the foreign investor, are exempt from custom duties. Foreign investors also benefit from certain tax advan- tages. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits No. The limit is $5,000 a person a trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA 233 Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits No. The limit is $5,000 a person a trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval No. Quantitative limits The limit is $5,000 a person a trip. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Pensions Prior approval No. The limit is $5,000 a person a trip. No. The limit is $5,000 a person a trip. Capital transfers connected with pension payments abroad are authorized by the NBR on the basis of permits issued by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Outward investments require an NBR license after the endorsement of the Ministry of Finance. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Yes. Purchase abroad by residents Requires NBR and Ministry of Finance approval. Sale or issue abroad by residents Requires NBR approval. On money market instruments Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Controls on credit operations NBR approval is required for maturities in excess of one year. Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 234 ROMANIA Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment An NBR license is required. It is granted after endorsement by the Ministry of Finance. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Resident banks are allowed to borrow abroad but only with the authorization of the NBR. Maintenance of accounts abroad The NBR does not authorize the opening of commercial bank accounts abroad. The NBR licenses accounts opened abroad by other credit institutions. Lending locally in foreign exchange Banking companies are permitted to lend locally in foreign currency only for current foreign exchange operations. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Banks cannot buy securities in foreign currency because the securities are issued in lei and not in foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIA (Position as of June 30,1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vffl Date of Acceptance: June 1, 1996. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Russia is the Russian ruble. No. Unitary. The official exchange rate is based on market exchange rates that are determined within a band of Rub 5,000-Rub 5,600 per U.S. dollar prevailing in daily auctions held at the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange (MICEX). The band was expected to shift to Rub 5,600 and Rub 6,100 per $1 by the end of December 1996. The band was in- tended to slide at a predetermined rate of 1.5% a month, with the width of the band maintained at Rub 600 per $1. Auction markets are organized in other major cities. There is a growing interbank exchange market outside of the currency exchanges. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency of the Central Bank of Russia (CBR) in the MICEX and on other exchanges where the CBR operates. The CBR participates in the MICEX as a net buyer and seller of the U.S. dollar to smooth out short-term fluctua- tions in the exchange rate; it occasionally trades in foreign exchange through direct dealing on the interbank market outside the auctions. There is no spread between the buying and selling rates of the CBR. The CBR exchange rate is announced twice a week. It becomes effective on the following day and remains in effect until the Friday and Wednesday auctions. Exchange rates announced by the CBR are used for account- ing and taxation purposes and for operations with the Ministry of Finance. No. No. A futures trading market has developed in Moscow and is regulated as part of the CBR exposure limits, and forward contracts are sold by authorized banks. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Yes. Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative An agreement is maintained with India. Agreements are maintained with Bulgaria, China, Cuba, the Czech Republic, Egypt, Hungary, India, the Islamic State of Afghanistan, Mongolia, Poland, the Slovak Repub- lic, Slovenia, and Syria. Other payments arrangements Clearing agreements Yes. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 236 RUSSIA Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions The CBR is responsible for administering exchange control regulations, supervising and monitoring transactions of authorized banks, and regulating banks' open foreign exchange positions. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Certain restrictions apply against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Domestic trade in gold is not permitted. Monetary gold intended to be part of the country's foreign exchange reserves is purchased by the CBR and the government at world prices quoted on the London market and converted at the market exchange rate. Transactions in precious metals (gold and silver bullion) require authorization, and transactions must be made through authorized banks possessing a special license issued by the CBR. Residents and nonresidents traveling to areas where the ruble is sole legal tender are allowed to take out a maximum of Rub 500,000 in banknotes. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign banknotes a person may take out of the country, provided that a certificate from an authorized bank on the origin of the funds is presented to customs. On imports Foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Juridical and natural persons may open foreign accounts at authorized resident banks. Nonresidents must register with the tax authorities before opening an account. There are no restrictions on the crediting or debiting of these accounts maintained by nonresi- dents. Balances on foreign currency accounts of residents may only be used for pur- poses of effecting current foreign exchange transactions. Residents may use balances in their current foreign exchange accounts for all types of current transactions. The use of foreign exchange proceeds for capital transactions, with the exception of certain spe- cific individual transactions, requires a CBR license. Approval required No. Held abroad Resident natural persons may maintain bank accounts abroad only during their stay outside Russia for the purpose of education, employment, medical treatment, or tour- ism. Upon return to Russia, bank accounts abroad must be closed, and balances must be credited to the accounts held in authorized banks operating in the territory of Russia. Resident juridical persons, including branches of Russian banks, may not maintain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIA 237 accounts abroad without special permission from the CBR. Resident banks may open correspondent accounts abroad in accordance with the procedures set out in the CBR's foreign exchange licenses. Authorized Russian banks are allowed to open correspon- dent accounts in the Baltic countries and the other countries of the FSU without re- striction, provided that they comply with the regulation on exposure limits. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Domestic currency accounts Nonresidents may maintain four types of ruble accounts (1) T accounts, which may be credited with proceeds from current international transactions (including proceeds from the sales of goods and services to residents of Russia and interest earnings on the ac- count itself, and debited for the servicing of export-import operations by their represen- tative offices in Russia; (2) correspondent ruble accounts for nonresident banks under the same regime applicable to T accounts; (3) I accounts, which can be used for in- vestment activities (including privatization operations); and (4) nonresident accounts for natural persons. The transfer abroad of balances in T accounts and correspondent ruble accounts accumulated after June 1, 1996 is not restricted. The use of balances accumulated up to May 31 ,1996 is limited to domestic transactions. I accounts may be used for a wide range of investment activities, including profit and dividend transfers. Balances maintained in I accounts may be transferred abroad without restriction after payment of applicable taxes. Nonresident natural and juridical persons may purchase foreign exchange only with ruble balances held in I accounts. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports are generally free of quotas and licenses. Licenses are required for imports of medicines, raw materials for the production of medicines and pesticides, and industrial waste. Most customs duties range from 5% to 15%; but some tariffs are up to 150%. The fol- lowing imports are exempt from duties: foodstuffs, medicines, medical supplies and equipment, printed materials, children's articles, accompanied baggage up to $2,000 in value, equipment for the oil and gas industries, and ships and boats. Imports from CIS countries and from the least-developed countries are also exempt. Customs duties from developing countries are half the normal rates. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 238 RUSSIA Repatriation requirements The repatriation ratio is 100%. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Export licenses With quotas Export taxes Residents must sell 50% of export earnings through authorized banks. CBR permission is required for foreign exchange transactions associated with deferred payments for exports of goods from Russia for a period exceeding 180 days and defer- rals granted to residents for making advance payments against deliveries of imported goods exceeding 180 days. Export licensing is limited to a small group of products (e.g., military equipment and arms, gold, diamonds, other precious metals and stones, certain food products, wildlife, medicines, chemical raw materials for the production of medicines, and minerals). Export licenses are issued in accordance with application procedures established by the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations. A limited number of goods determined by the Ministry of the Environment may be exported only under a licensing regime. Yes. Export duties are levied on about 100 product groups. Specific duties are denominated in ECU while ad valorem rates range up to 30%. There are numerous exemptions granted on a case-by-case basis. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The purchase of foreign exchange for all bona fide invisible transactions from authorized banks is allowed with proper documentation. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles, except those from banking services, are subject to the surren- der requirement. Restrictions on use of funds No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Capital Transactions Capital transfers by residents abroad, including repayments of loans with maturities exceeding 180 days from the date of transaction, require approval from the CBR. Transactions not requiring approval are listed in Instruction No. 39 of April 24, 1996 on "Changes in the Procedure of Conducting Several Types of Foreign Exchange in Russia." Nonresident juridical persons may transfer abroad foreign currency assets up to the amount imported, provided that the foreign exchange is in their possession. Non- residents may buy or sell foreign currency for investment purposes in exchange for rubles through I accounts without limit. External borrowing by juridical persons is subject to control. Receipts of foreign exchange credits by resident juridical persons from nonresidents are subject to approval from the CBR when their maturities exceed 180 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RUSSIA 239 Financial credits To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Credits by resident juridical persons from nonresidents are subject to CBR approval when their maturities exceed 180 days. Outward direct investment Investments must be authorized by the CBR. Inward direct investment Investment in Russian enterprises by nonresidents through joint ventures or through outright ownership is not restricted, except in some sectors like banking and explora- tion for natural resources (special license required) or land ownership (prohibited). Enterprises with foreign capital shares must register with the Ministry of the Economy. Investments exceeding Rub 100 million require a permit from the Council of Ministers. Foreign direct investments are accorded the same rules and privileges with regard to property ownership and economic activities as those accorded to resident investments. Foreign direct investments may be nationalized or expropriated only in exceptional cases in accordance with legislation, and in such cases the investor is entitled to com- pensation. Provisions protecting foreign investment are in effect, including a "grandfather" clause that protects foreign investments for a three-year period from regulatory acts that would adversely affect their activities, and a provision that any restrictions on the activities of foreign investors can be introduced only by Russian laws or by presidential decree. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Land ownership is prohibited. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Borrowing by banks possessing a general foreign exchange license does not require a special license. Yes. Yes. The limits are set in absolute amounts and differ according to bank capital as follows: (1) for capital up to Rub 1 billion, the limit is $100,000, while the limit/capital ratio may not be less than 33%; (2) for capital of Rub 1-5 billion, the limit is $500,000, while the limit/capital ratio is in the range of 33% to 165%; (3) for capital of Rub 5-10 billion, the limit is $1 million, while the limit/capital ratio is in the range of 33% to 66%; and (4) for banks with capital above Rub 10 billion, the CBR determines individual limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA (Position as of January 31,1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: September 1, 1995. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating Exchange Arrangement The currency of Slovenia is the tolar. No. The Bank of Slovenia (BOS) publishes daily a moving two-month average exchange rate for customs valuation and accounting purposes. The external value of the tolar is determined in the exchange market by demand and supply conditions. The BOS may also participate in the foreign exchange market and may buy and sell foreign exchange in transactions with the government and commercial banks. Natural persons may conduct foreign exchange transactions with banks or for- eign exchange offices at freely negotiated rates. Licensed banks may conduct foreign exchange transactions among themselves. Juridical persons may conduct foreign ex- change transactions with banks or between themselves. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market There is a forward exchange market, but the volume of trading is not significant. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements No. Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Slovenia maintains a payments agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Ma- cedonia. The agreement allows juridical persons to conduct transactions through non- residents' accounts held with banks. Provisions relating to the special clearing settle- ment are inoperative. Also, there is an agreement with Italy related to trade between the two border regions. Other payments arrangements No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities Foreign exchange market operations are governed by the Law on Foreign Exchange Business promulgated on June 25, 1991, which introduced a free foreign exchange market operated by banks and exchange offices, the BOG, and juridical and natural persons. The Law on Foreign Trade Transactions, in effect since March 27, 1993, sets out the rules and regulations governing foreign trade activities. Cash transactions in foreign currencies are restricted; residents are required, in accordance with the Law on Foreign Exchange Business, to obtain permission from the BOS. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 241 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Yes. In accordance with UN sanctions Exports from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), and from the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina that are controlled by Bosnian Serbs are prohibited, in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 942. Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Natural persons may take abroad up to SIT 300,000 a person. Banks are allowed to take abroad cash exceeding that amount with prior approval of the BOS for each operation. Residents may take abroad up to the equivalent of DM 3,000; amounts exceeding DM 3,000 require prior approval from the BOS. Natural persons may bring into the country up to SIT 300,000 a person. Banks are al- lowed to bring into the country cash exceeding that amount with prior approval of the BOS. There are reporting requirements for cash and checks exceeding the equivalent of SIT 200,000 for natural persons according to regulations on money-laundering prevention. Resident Accounts Resident juridical persons are, in principle, not allowed to maintain foreign currency accounts; exceptions are provided for in the Law on Foreign Exchange Business. Yes. Yes. Resident natural persons are allowed to open and operate foreign currency accounts without restriction. Resident juridical persons are allowed to maintain accounts in con- nection with payments provided under the Law on Foreign Exchange Business. Approval required No. Held abroad Resident juridical persons may maintain accounts abroad only in specific cases. Only banks licensed for foreign payments may maintain accounts abroad; resident natural persons are not allowed to do so. Approval required Approval of the BOS is required. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 242 SLOVENIA Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. No. Nonresidents may open local currency accounts with proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or of goods and services to residents. Balances (including accrued interest) in these accounts may be converted into convertible currencies and repatriated. Convertible into foreign currency Transfers of inheritances are allowed under conditions of reciprocity. Approval required Blocked accounts No. These accounts are blocked per implementation of UN resolutions. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports and Import Payments No. No. Commercial banks effect payments upon the presentation of documents reflecting the purpose of the transaction. Licensing requirements in the form of permits, for the purpose of control only, have been retained for specific groups of goods (e.g., drugs, explosives, precious metals, and arms and ammunition) and for security and public health reasons, in accordance with international conventions and codes. Slovenia maintains a system of import quotas applicable only to certain textile prod- ucts. There are annual import quotas, which are allocated to relevant associations of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. Quotas are not applied to imports from countries with which Slovenia has free trade agreements. The law on custom tariffs, effective since the beginning of 1996, eliminated the 1% customs clearance tax and the 1% equalization tax. There are customs and specific duties that are in accordance with the range accepted in the WTO. Tariff rates range from zero to 27%, and certain agricultural products are subject to a 70% rate. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are free to agree on payment terms with foreign importers. However, if the collection of export proceeds is delayed by more than one year, the transactions must be registered with the BOS as credit arrangements. Once received, export proceeds must be repatriated. Exporters have two business days to sell their proceeds to importers at a freely negoti- ated exchange rate or to use the proceeds for payments abroad. After that term, they must sell their proceeds to an authorized bank. Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. Export licenses Except for certain items that are subject to licensing for security or health reasons in accordance with the international conventions and codes, exports are not restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 243 Export taxes A tax is levied on unworked wood (45%); the tax is not paid for exports to countries with which Slovenia has a free trade agreement. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Residents are not allowed to purchase insurance abroad, except in the case of reinsur- ance by insurance companies. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Yes. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There are no legal provisions regulating portfolio investments. In practice, the purchase of bonds by nonresidents is allowed under the same conditions that apply to credit op- erations with foreign countries, whereby the purchases of shares are subject to the regulation that applies to direct investments. Nonresidents are not allowed to undertake such activities in the country. Foreign securities may be offered in Slovenia only with the prior approval of the Agency for Securities Market, by domestic brokerage companies and licensed banks. Purchase abroad by residents Banks are allowed to purchase securities abroad. Provisions regulating direct invest- ments and credit operations are applied in the case of portfolio investments abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for purchases in the country by nonresidents apply. On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Yes. Sale or issue abroad by residents Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. On collective investment securities Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Same regulations as for capital market securities apply. Commercial credits are subject to registration with the BOS, provided the payment for goods and services is deferred for more than 12 months. By residents to nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 244 SLOVENIA To residents from nonresidents Yes. Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Domestic companies are allowed to extend credits to nonresidents, if the latter are owned by these domestic companies, and provided that the respective funds derive from profits earned by their enterprises abroad. Domestic authorized banks are allowed to grant financial credits to nonresidents, provided they obtain a first-class guarantee for their repayment. The BOS, seeking to limit inflow of foreign capital and in order to achieve an extension of maturity of loans borrowed abroad, introduced in February 1995 interest-free deposit requirements. Currently the requirements are 40% for loans with maturities of up to seven years (up to five years until end-July 1996) and 10% for maturities over seven years (for credits concluded after December 28, 1996), with obligor not being a commercial bank or the Republic of Slovenia. To residents from nonresidents Yes. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Domestic persons are allowed, in accordance with the activity they perform, to contract guarantees and other forms of sureties. Domestic legal entities (companies) are obliged to obtain the permission of the Minis- try of Finance. It is granted provided that (i) the domestic company has been operating with the profit, and the funds used do not exceed the amount of the latter, and (ii) the taxes and the customs have been paid in the country. Foreign direct investment and establishment of companies in Slovenia are subject to the Foreign Investment Law and the Company Law. Registration of foreign direct in- vestments or establishment of (wholly or partially) foreign-owned companies is subject to the same conditions as those of domestic entities. Companies must be registered at the local Court of Justice, which is deemed to have informed the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development accordingly. Wholly foreign-owned companies are not allowed in the military equipment field, rail and air transport, communications and telecommunications, insurance, publishing, and mass media. Furthermore, in the fol- lowing sectors foreign participation is limited: auditing companies, stockbroking com- panies, management companies for investment funds, and authorized management companies. Foreign banks are not supposed to open their branches in Slovenia, while the foreign participation in banks is subject to the prior approval of the BOS. Foreign acquisition of more than 25% of shares of newly privatized companies is subject to governmental approval. Payments abroad pertaining to the liquidation of foreign direct investments or sale of real estate (including capital gains) are free of any restrictions after all obligations in Slovenia have been met. Transfer of proceeds from realization of inheritance is free if the principle of reciprocity is guaranteed between Slovenia and the country of the re- cipient. Purchase of real property by residents in cases where such real property does not con- stitute a part of the outward direct investment is, in principle, free. For the time being, foreigners may not own land and other real estate. Foreign states, however, may acquire the right to own property affixed to land used by them for diplo- matic and consular purposes. Furthermore, foreigners may acquire title to land only by inheritance, provided that reciprocity of such right of acquisition is recognized. Banks are not allowed to raise short-term loans abroad. There is an interest-free de- posit requirement for loans with maturities of up to seven years (up to five years until ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SLOVENIA 245 end-July 1996) of 40%. Pursuant to a BOS resolution of July 1996, commercial banks are obligated to increase—for amounts equal to the net increase of certain foreign ex- change obligations (and since December 1996, the obligations of the companies they control) as per end-July 1996—certain foreign exchange claims. Authorized domestic banks are permitted to hold accounts with foreign banks, provided that they meet credit solvency requirements of the country in which the foreign bank has its headquarters. Domestic banks are liable to submit to the BOS a complete list of foreign currency amounts they keep with foreign banks. Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Domestic banks are permitted to grant financial credits to nonresidents provided they obtain the first-class guarantee for their repayment. Lending locally in foreign exchange Domestic authorized banks are allowed to extend credits in foreign currency to domes- tic persons, other than natural persons, provided they exceed at the moment the credit is approved their minimum foreign exchange requirement, set by the BOS, by at least 10% and that the terms of the credit are not less favorable for the client than those prevailing on the international capital market. The funds so obtained may be used for payments abroad or for refinancing the existing obligations from previously extended credits pursuant to this regulation. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Yes. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits There is an interest-free deposit requirement on tolar and foreign exchange deposit accounts of foreign banks and financial institutions as applied for pure financial loans; no restrictions apply to the transaction accounts of foreign banks and financial institutions. There are two kinds of reserve requirements prescribed for banks: required reserves in tolars and minimum required assets in foreign currencies. The base for calculating required reserves in tolars consists of all tolar deposits and funds acquired by loans and securities issues. Interbank liabilities are excluded. There is no difference in treatment of tolar deposits owned by residents or nonresidents. Banks are prescribed to hold minimum required assets in foreign currencies. The amount is determined for each bank on a monthly basis with regard to its foreign pay- ments operations (35% of the average monthly foreign payments over the last three months) and its foreign currency liabilities to households (for sight deposits 100%, time deposits up to three months 75%, time deposits over three months and up to one year 35%, and time deposits over one year 5%) and nonresidents (for sight deposits 90%, time deposits up to three months 75%, time deposits over three months and up to one year 35%, and time deposits over one year 5%). There are no formal rules on foreign exchange positions. Banks have to report their foreign exchange position for the end of each year within broad report for revision pur- poses. From July 1996, commercial banks are obligated to increase, for the amount equal to the net increase of certain foreign exchange obligations (and since December 1996, those of the companies they control), certain foreign exchange claims. Provisions specific to institutional investors Law on Insurance Companies (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 64/94, 35/95) and Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies (6/6/94): (1) Insurance stock companies may not be owned only by nonresidents; (2) Nonresidents can become stockholders of insurance companies only with the ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance; (3) If the majority of shares are owned by nonresidents, insurance companies cannot provide reinsurance; (4) Mutual insurance funds should be owned only by residents; (5) Management companies may be owned by nonresidents by more than 20% of shares only with the approval of the Agency for Securities Market; ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 246 SLOVENIA (6) Authorized management companies (i.e., those authorized to manage investment companies that collect vouchers in the privatization process) may be owned by more than 10% of shares only with the approval of the Agency for Securities Market and the Ministry for Economic Affairs and Development; and (7) Investment stock companies' (closed investment fund) investments in foreign secu- rities may not exceed 10% of total investments. Only foreign securities of explicitly stated stock exchange by the Agency for Securities Market are eligible. The Law on Pension Insurance (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 12/92, 5/94, 7/96) establishes that the capital fund of the Pension Insur- ance Stock Company, is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Voluntary pension funds for extra pension rights are subject to rules for insurance stock companies. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Yes. Yes. Other controls imposed by securities laws The Law on Securities Market (Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 6/94) imposes restrictions on ownership by nonresidents of licensed market participants- brokers (article 44). Nonresidents may own up to 24% of the capital of a broker's com- pany and only with the approval of the Agency for Securities Market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: September 15, 1973. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Exchange Arrangement The currency of South Africa is the rand. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the rand is determined on the basis of demand and supply in the foreign exchange market. The authorities of South Africa do not maintain margins with respect to exchange transactions, but intervene in the exchange market to affect rates quoted by the commercial banks. The principal intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. No. No. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward ex- change operations, including cover for transactions by nonresidents. They are also permitted to provide forward exchange cover in any foreign currency to residents for any firm and to ascertain foreign exchange commitments and accruals due to or by non- residents arising from authorized trade and nontrade transactions. Forward exchange contracts may cover the entire period of the outstanding commitments or accruals. Subject to certain limitations, forward exchange cover may also be provided to nonresi- dents. Gold mining companies and houses may sell forward anticipated receipts of their future gold sales. The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) provides forward cover only against U.S. dollars. Such cover is given only against documentary evidence of foreign financing transactions to authorized dealers for maturities not exceeding 12 months in the form of rand-U.S. dollar swap transactions, with the margin based on an interest rate differen- tial between the U.S. dollar and the rand. Forward cover for periods in excess of 12 months is available for certain forward transactions at market rates in certain freely transferable currencies for long-term loans. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts All countries outside the CMA constitute the nonresident area. The rand is legal tender in Lesotho and Namibia but not in Swaziland. Settlements by or to residents of the CMA with the nonresident area may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any foreign currency. Lilangeni banknotes issued by Swaziland, loti banknotes issued by Lesotho, and Namibia dollar notes issued by Namibia are freely convertible into rand at par, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Foreign currency, foreign exchange, exchange, and specified currency refer to any currency other than currency that is legal tender in South Africa but not to the currencies of Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements South Africa is part of the CMA. Payments within the CMA are unrestricted. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 248 SOUTH AFRICA Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the SARD; in turn, the SARB has delegated many of its powers to the authorized dealers. According to UN Security Council Resolutions 661 and 757, South Africa imposed restrictions on current payments and transfers to Iraq and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), respectively. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic purposes and investment. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, registered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry at home or abroad. The gold mining industry must sell its output to the SARB, which has been nominated as agent for the Treasury, within one month of production. As of October 1987, the SARB has paid the gold mines in U.S. dollars for the sale of their production. As a special concession, the industry may retain approximately one-third of its production for the minting of gold coins and kilo bars. The mint strikes gold coins and the Kruger- rand, which are legal tender, without a face value, and these are made available in limited numbers to the local market. All exports of gold must be approved in advance by the SARB. Approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers for exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, up to a value of R 40,000 (subject to a written declaration that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's return); and for exports of gold jewelry by manufacturing jewelers subject to a written declaration that the articles are in fully manufactured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 80% of the selling price to the ultimate consignee. Furthermore, after approval by the SARB, residents are allowed to export currency coins, including certain gold coins, for sale to numismatists. The amount of SARB notes that can be exported may not exceed R 500, but this amount is not regarded as part of the basic travel allowance. The limitation does not apply to contract workers returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in banknotes. There are no limitations on the exporta- tion of domestic currency to Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa may take with them up to R 500 in SARB notes. Residents and contract workers leaving South Africa for destinations outside the CMA may take out up to 50% of their allowance in foreign banknotes. Foreign visitors leav- ing South Africa may take with them up to R 500 in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes brought into the country or obtained through the disposal of instruments of exchange brought into and converted in South Africa. Residents and nonresidents entering from countries outside the CMA may bring in R 500 in SARB notes. There are no limitations on the importation of domestic currency from Lesotho, Namibia, and Swaziland. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Resident Accounts 249 Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held abroad Approval required Yes. Yes. Approval is granted based on the merit of the application, and in most circumstances only if it can be demonstrated that the management of trade receipts and payments can be facilitated. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of nonresidents are divided into nonresident accounts and emigrant blocked accounts. No. Nonresident accounts may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of foreign currency, and with payments from other nonresident accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, by transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the CMA; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South Africa for short periods. Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresident accounts may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of foreign currency, and with payments from other nonresident accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to CMA residents for any purpose (other than loans); for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, by transfer to a local nonresident account or for remittance to any country outside the CMA; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to account holders residing in South Africa for short periods. Emigrant blocked accounts are the accounts of emigrants from the CMA and are sub- ject to exchange control restrictions. Any cash or proceeds from any other South Afri- can asset held at the time of departure and subsequently sold must be credited to this type of account. These funds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another emigrant blocked account in South Africa but must be retained on deposit with an authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, for other specified payments to residents, or for investment in any locally quoted securities (such securities may not, however, be exported and sold abroad). Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Advance payments requirement Payments are not normally allowed before the date of shipment or dispatch, except with prior approval or special authorization from the SARB. Authorized dealers can permit, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 250 SOUTH AFRICA without the SARB's approval, advance payment of up to 33.3% of the ex-factory cost of capital goods if suppliers require it or if it is normal in the trade concerned. Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers are automatically granted foreign exchange to pay for current imports upon presenting to their bank the necessary transport and consignment documents (proof of importation) and an import permit when required. Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Licenses with quotas Import taxes and/or tariffs Goods subject to import control are listed in Schedule IA of the Import Control Regu- lations published on December 23,1988, as amended. All importers requiring import permits for trade or manufacturing purposes must be registered with the Sub- directorate of Import and Export Control. The permits are valid for imports from any country. Imports that do not require a permit include all goods from Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, Swaziland, and Zimbabwe that are grown, produced, or manufac- tured in these countries, with the exception of a limited range of agricultural products from Malawi and Zimbabwe. The system of import quotas, which affects most agricultural and a number of manufac- tured products has, to a large extent, been phased out and replaced with selective tariff measures. There is a large number of different tariff rates applied on imports, as well as formula, specific, and other types of duties. Import surcharges were abolished with effect from October 1, 1995. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be remitted to South Africa. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be received within six months of the date of shipment or seven days of the date of accrual. Except for exports made on a cash-on-delivery basis or those for which the full proceeds are received in advance, exporters are permitted to cover forward their export proceeds within seven days of shipment. Authorized dealers may permit exporters to grant credit for up to 12 months, provided the credit is necessary in the particular trade or needed to protect an existing export market or capture a new one. Exporters benefit from an incentive scheme, under which they receive payments based on the f.o.b. value of exports, the local content of prod- ucts, and the extent of processing involved. To be sold outside the SACU, exports of a limited number of products considered to be in relatively short supply or controlled for strategic reasons require export permits. Exporters benefit from certain incentive schemes, the main one being the General Ex- port Incentive Scheme, which is expected to be terminated by the end of 1997. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 251 Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Documentary evidence/declaration must be produced at the time of applying for foreign currency. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No. No. Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Documentary evidence/declaration must be produced at the time of applying for foreign currency. Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test No. No. Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Documentary evidence/declaration must be produced at the time of applying for foreign currency. No. No. No. Buying commissions are limited to 5% of the invoice value of the goods, and selling commissions are limited to what is normal in the trade. Yes. No. Authorized dealers, without consulting the SARB, may approve current income pay- ments, such as declared dividends, profits, and royalties, that accrue in South Africa, provided that (1) the Department of Trade and Industry and the SARB have approved the relevant royalty agreement, and (2) the remittance of profits and dividends does not involve excessive use of local credit facilities. The SARB gives favorable consideration to such transfers when the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income earned from securities held by nonresidents is freely transferable to their coun- try of residence. No. Yes. No. There is an indicative limit on the tourist travel allowance of R 25,000 a year for an adult (R 12,500 for a child under 12). Separately, there is an annual basic exchange allocation of R 6,000 for an adult (R 3,000 for a child under 12) for travel to neighbor- ing countries (Angola, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, Zaire, Zambia, and Zim- babwe). In addition to the tourist allowances, authorized dealers may grant allowances for overseas business trips at a rate not exceeding R 2,000 a day, up to R 38,000 a cal- endar year. The separate applicable allowance for business trips to the neighboring countries listed above is R 12,000 a year at a rate not exceeding R 900 a day. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 252 SOUTH AFRICA Indicative limits/bona fide test Exchange allowances in excess of the above limits may be provided with the approval oftheSARB. Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Prior approval is required for amounts exceeding R 3,000. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Approval is required for amounts exceeding R 3,500 a month, or R 7,000 a month if the student is accompanied by a spouse. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Approval is required for amounts exceeding R 5,000 a year. Indicative limits/bona fide test Yes. Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Yes. Approval is required for amounts exceeding R 10,000 a case. Indicative limits/bona fide test No. Foreign workers' wages Amounts remitted must be the worker's own funds. Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits No. No. No. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. Approval is required for amounts exceeding R 200 a receiving family unit a month and R 3,500 a beneficiary a month, respectively. Indicative limits/bona fide test No. Credit card use abroad Prior approval Quantitative limits Authorization is given only for use when traveling (an undertaking has to be signed). Expenditure may not exceed 100% of the corresponding allowance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 253 Indicative limits/bona fide test No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within seven days of the date of accrual unless an exemption is obtained. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents There is no control on the sale of securities tradable in South Africa by nonresidents or on the transfer of proceeds abroad. The issue of securities by nonresidents (i.e., raising funds on the South African capital market) requires prior exchange control approval. In terms of current policy, this will not be agreed to. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may not purchase securities abroad without approval. Institutions may obtain portfolio investments abroad under approval (asset swaps). Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents require approval for the sale or issue of securities abroad. Such action would normally be undertaken to raise capital, either to fund approved foreign investment or to transfer the funds to South Africa for investment/use locally. Servicing should be undertaken from foreign sources if the funds are employed abroad, or from South Africa if the funds were transferred to that country. On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents South African money market instruments may be sold by nonresidents and the proceeds repatriated freely. The issue of such instruments by nonresidents is, however, not al- lowed. Purchase abroad by residents Residents may not purchase securities abroad without approval. Institutions may obtain portfolio investments abroad under approval (asset swaps). Sale or issue abroad by residents Residents require approval for the sale or issue of securities abroad. Such action would normally be undertaken to raise capital either to fund approved foreign investment or to transfer the funds to South Africa for investment/use locally. Servicing should be un- dertaken from foreign sources if the funds are employed abroad, or from South Africa if the funds were transferred to that country. On collective investment securities Purchase abroad by residents Such purchases by resident individuals are not allowed. Resident institutions as re- ferred to above may acquire such investments as part of their approved portfolio in- vestments abroad. Sale or issue abroad by residents In practice, such instruments are issued in South Africa by the registered mutual funds, unit trusts, etc. (See section on "purchase in the country by nonresidents.") Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Nonresidents may freely purchase derivative instruments, options, and futures on the local formal market (SAFEX), but over-the-counter (OTC) transactions require prior approval. They may also freely invest in other paper traded in South Africa. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 254 SOUTH AFRICA Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Yes. Yes. Credit for trade transactions (exports) may be granted for up to six months. The South African Authorized Dealers (banks) may in certain circumstances allow a further ex- tension of six months. Longer-term credit requires exchange control approval. In re- spect of services, payment has to be received in terms of the contract between the par- ties within a reasonable period after rendering the service. Financial credits, such as loans, may not be extended to nonresidents without prior approval. To residents from nonresidents In view of the financial obligation on South Africa, financial credits, such as loans, received by residents require prior approval. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Guarantees or sureties for financial loans require approval but not for trade transac- tions. Performance bonds may be issued. In respect of trade or services rendered to residents, no controls apply. The provision of financial loans by residents to nonresidents requires prior approval. If agreed to, guar- antees/sureties may be accepted. No South African resident may make an investment out of South Africa/CMA without exchange control approval, nor may a South African purchase real estate outside South Africa/CMA without exchange control approval. Under exchange control, these would only be authorized provided there is a benefit to the South African reserves, for exam- ple, by exports from South Africa. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad All borrowings abroad by South African residents require exchange control approval, hi 1992, authority was granted for banks to use these facilities provided they were for short-term working capital loans and short-term trade finance. All medium- and long- term commitments require exchange control approval. Maintenance of accounts abroad Authorized dealers (i.e., banks) may open Nostro accounts at their discretion. Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) South African residents are not permitted to grant loans, or financial and commercial credits to nonresidents, or to purchase securities issued abroad without exchange con- trol approval. Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange No securities in South Africa are denominated in foreign exchange; only the rand is legal tender, and, accordingly, all invoices and payments may only be contracted for in rand. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA 255 Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Hie requirement is 2% of adjusted total liabilities plus 1% of adjusted short-term li- abilities. Liquid asset requirements The requirement is 5% of adjusted total liabilities. Investment regulations Investment in equity is limited to 100% of capital plus reserves. Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad The limit is 15% of qualifying capital plus reserves. There are no controls on inward portfolio investment. On outward portfolio investment, the exchange control will authorize up to 10% of total assets for each institution to be invested abroad by way of an asset swap. Consideration would also be given to requests from qualifying institutions (i.e., long-term insurance companies, pension funds, and unit trusts) to remit up to 3% of their net cash flow of the 1995 calendar year during 1996, provided it will still fall within the overall limit of 10% as stated above. Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Other controls imposed by securities laws Yes. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VIH Date of acceptance: July 15, 1986. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Cooperative arrangement Exchange Arrangement The currency of Spain is the peseta. No. Unitary. Spain participates in the ERM of the EMS. In accordance with this agreement, Spain maintains the spot exchange rates between the Spanish peseta and the currencies of the other participants within margins of 15% above or below the cross rates based on the central rates expressed in ECUs. The agreement implies that the Bank of Spain (BOS), the central bank, stands ready to buy or sell the currencies of the other participating states in unlimited amounts at specified intervention rates. Exchange tax Exchange subsidy No. No. Forward exchange market Options and futures on the peseta are traded in major financial markets. Official cover of forward operations No. Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. The peninsular territories of the Spanish state, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, and Melilla constitute a single exchange control territory. The Directorate-General of Foreign Investment and Commercial Policy has the power to authorize, verify, control, and monitor foreign investments and economic transac- tions, collections, payments, and transfers with the rest of the world, while the Direc- torate-General of the Treasury and Financial Policy has authority to conduct the inves- tigations and inspections required to prepare or change the policy applied in matters concerning exchange control as well as to initiate, address, and rule on penalties ap- plied with regard to exchange control. In addition, the BOS has authority in a number of areas, such as the following: (1) Granting authorization to banks, savings and loans, and other financial institutions, when required, to transact business on the foreign exchange market, and registering institutions open to the public to engage in foreign exchange activities; (2) Receiving information on collections, payments, and transfers abroad in which reg- istered institutions are involved, and issuing instructions pertaining to the content, procedures, and frequency for such reporting; and (3) Control and inspection of operations carried out through registered institutions. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN 257 International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Spain notified the IMF on September 21, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the mak- ing of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). (On April 26, 1996, these re- strictions were lifted.) Other Specific financial transactions with Iraq are subject to authorization. Payments arrears No. Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade The acquisition of gold must be authorized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Controls on external trade Imports of bullion are permitted if they are used as raw materials for manufactured goods. Imports of gold in manufactured form (e.g., coins, medals, and the like) may be subject to quantitative restrictions, depending on the country of origin. Purchases of gold, silver, and platinum ingots are subject to a value-added tax at the rate of 33%. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency The exportation of more than the equivalent of Ptas 1 million in banknotes, coins or bearer checks must be declared. If the equivalent amount exceeds Ptas 5 million a person a trip, the exportation must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Foreign currency On imports Foreign currency Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Yes. Demand deposits, savings deposits, and time deposits denominated in foreign exchange may be opened and maintained without restriction by residents at offices of registered institutions operating in Spain, and are not subject to any reporting requirement. Approval required No. Held abroad Residents are free to open and maintain accounts denominated in pesetas or in foreign exchange at offices of both Spanish and foreign credit institutions operating abroad. In addition, collections and payments between residents and nonresidents through credits or debits to such accounts may be freely made. However, account holders are required to report the opening of such accounts and to provide information pertaining to credit and debit activities occurring in the accounts. Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency No. Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 258 SPAIN Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Open general licenses State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports of certain goods (e.g., tractors, explosives, seed oil, and gold) must be author- ized by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade, irrespective of the country of origin, or when imported from specific geographical areas (with distinctions being made among the members of the EU, those of the EFTA and the Mediterranean, the ACP member countries of the WTO, and state trading countries). No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a limited number of goods (e.g., textiles, steel, and some copper by- products) require prior authorization from the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Capital Transactions 259 Residents may purchase securities issued by nonresidents or by residents in a foreign market. The restriction applies only to the purchase of shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment and establishment. No. No. No. Residents (individuals or legal entities other than registered institutions) are required to file reports to the BOS of financial loans granted to nonresidents. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents On money market instruments On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents The same regulations as for commercial credits apply. To residents from nonresidents Residents are required to file a declaration with the BOS. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities No. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investments in Spain are defined in accordance with guidelines estab- lished by the OECD that take into account whether effective control over the company has been obtained. Effective control is deemed to exist if the share of the investment is at least 10% of the company's capital or if the Directorate-General of External Trans- actions considers that an important or predominant source of influence exists. Foreign investments effected through participation in Spanish companies are permitted freely in most cases. Prior verification is required only when foreign participation exceeds 50% and at least one of the following conditions applies: (1) foreign participation exceeds Ptas 500 million; and (2) foreign investors are residents of tax haven countries. Special authorization is required for non-EU foreign investment in defense-related industries, telecommunications (over 25% of capital), television, radio, air transport, and gam- bling. Special authorization is also required for a foreign government's participation in Spanish companies (other than governments of EU countries) unless otherwise regu- lated by international treaties. Prior authorization is required for direct investments by residents in non-EU countries where ownership of Spanish real estate or Spanish com- panies is transferred as a result of the operation. Real estate investments require prior verification for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 million or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. Foreign investments effected through participation in Spanish companies are permitted freely in most cases. Prior verification is required only when foreign participation exceeds 50% and at least one of the following conditions applies: (1) foreign participation exceeds Ptas 500 million; and (2) foreign investors are residents of tax haven countries. Special authorization is required for non-EU foreign investment in defense-related industries, telecommunications (over 25% of capital), television, radio, air transport, and gambling. Special authorization is also required for a foreign government's participation in Spanish companies (other than governments of EU countries) unless otherwise regulated by international treaties. Real estate investments require prior ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 260 SPAIN verification for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 million or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Investments in real estate by residents abroad is permitted, but those that exceed Ptas 250 million require prior verification. Purchase locally by nonresidents Real estate investments require prior verification for amounts exceeding Ptas 500 mil- lion or if investors are residents of tax haven countries. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Maintenance of accounts abroad Yes. Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange This type of operation is subject to the rules and regulations governing interest rates and commissions, rules of procedure, customer information, and publication applicable to credit institutions. Nonresident deposit accounts may be opened and mobilized without restriction, with the exception of collections and payments from residents to nonresidents effected by account debits or credits. In such cases, information pertaining to the operation, and whether the operation involves credits to accounts of nonresidents by nonresidents, must be declared, in which case certification of origin must be provided. For nonresident accounts, this status must be indicated. Accordingly, the holder must provide documentation attesting to nonresidency, and this status must be confirmed every year. Since February 1992, regular foreign peseta accounts and convertible foreign peseta accounts have been governed by the provisions for nonresident deposits. Reserve requirements Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: February 15,1961. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Exchange Arrangement The currency of Sweden is the Swedish krona. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the krona is determined on the basis of supply and demand. No. No. Yes. The Sveriges Riksbank, the central bank, and certain government agencies participate in the forward exchange rate market. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. No. Sweden notified the IMF on August 7, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757, certain restrictions with regard to payments and transfers in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were imposed; these restrictions were extended in 1994 to areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the control of Bosnian Serb forces. Financial transactions with Iraq are prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 661 (1990) and other relevant resolutions. Certain restrictions were imposed on the Libya and Angola (UN Security Council Resolutions No. 748 (1992) and No. 864(1993). Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. No. No. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 262 SWEDEN Resident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Residents may open accounts, provided that the amounts are reported to the Swedish National Tax Board for tax control and to the Riksbank for statistical purposes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Yes. No. External krona accounts may be held by nonresidents domiciled abroad, including per- sons who have become nonresidents after emigrating. They may be used for payments and transfers and may be converted into any foreign currency. Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. Imports on most iron and steel products from all countries outside the EU, other than countries of the EFTA or countries that are parties to the EEA, are subject to import licensing for surveillance purposes. Certain goods (e.g., fireworks, gloves, bicycles, brushes, etc.) from China are also subject to licensing for surveillance purposes. As a result of Sweden's membership in the EU as of January 1, 1995, the importation of textiles and clothing from more than 50 countries has been subject to restrictions or licensing for surveillance purposes. Agricultural and fishery products have also been subject to import licensing. Some iron and steel products from Russia, Ukraine, and Kazakstan are also subject to restrictions. Certain imports from China (shoes, porce- lain, toys, etc.) are subject to restrictions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN 263 Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports to Iraq are prohibited. Yes. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments The restriction applies only to shares and other securities of a participating nature that may be affected by laws on inward direct investment in fishing and civil aviation. Capital Transactions On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 264 SWEDEN Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents A permit may be required. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits For prudential purposes, limits are placed on the net foreign positions (spot, forward, and options) in individual foreign currencies and on the total net position in all curren- cies. The limit for each foreign currency and for the total net position is equivalent to 10% of a bank's capital base, unless the bank is recognized as a market maker, in which case the limit is equivalent to 15% of its capital base. A limit also exists on a bank's total net positions calculated as the sum of all liability positions. This limit is equal to 30% of the bank's capital base and 30% for recognized market makers. Provisions specific to institutional investors Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Same provisions as for banks exist. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: May 29,1992. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the Swiss franc is determined by supply and demand. However, the Swiss National Bank (SNB) reserves the right to intervene in the foreign exchange market. All settlements are made at free market rates. The principal intervention cur- rency is the U.S. dollar. No. No. No officially fixed premiums and discount rates apply to forward exchange contracts, all of which are negotiated at free market rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade No. No. No. Authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council, acting on the advice of the Federal Department of Public Economy, the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs, or the Federal Department of Finance. The SNB is the advisory and executive authority in matters of currency for both Switzerland and Liechtenstein. Certain restrictions have been imposed in respect of Iraq, Libya, and regions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under Serbian control. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were suspended in November 1995. Yes. No. Import and export licenses, which are issued freely, are required for commercial im- ports and exports of certain articles containing gold. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 266 SWITZERLAND Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Open general licenses Licenses are required mostly for agricultural products. Other nontariff measures Import controls apply only for defense sensitive products. Import taxes and/or tariffs No. State import monopoly The importation of alcohol, butter, and wheat grain are partial state monopolies. Repatriation requirements No. Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND 267 Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements No. No. No. Export licenses Without quotas Export taxes The system is operated in part with the assistance of semiofficial or private organizations. Exports of weapons, dual-use goods for the production of conventional weapons and weapons of mass destruction are prohibited. No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Foreign and domestic bond issues denominated in Swiss francs must be reported to the SNB. The physical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted, hi case of any disturbances in the capital markets, the federal government may introduce a permit requirement for certain outward capital transfers (e.g., bond issues). On money market instruments No. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents The issue of foreign collective investment securities is subject to a stamp duty. No. No. No. No. Purchases by nonresidents require approval by the canton in which the property is situated. The approval of the canton is subject to supervision and appeal by the federal government. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 268 SWITZERLAND Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors Selected banks and finance companies are required to report their positions (their own assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward) in domestic and foreign currencies on a monthly basis. Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad The overall limit is 30% with no more than 25% of the portfolio invested in equities, no more than 20% in bonds, and no more than 5% in real estate. Other controls imposed by securities laws Prudential regulations potentially restrict pension funds' ability to acquire assets abroad (currently nonbinding). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: May 4, 1990. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Pegged Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Thailand is the baht. No. Unitary. The external value of the baht is determined on the basis of a weighted basket of cur- rencies of Thailand's major trading partners and on other considerations. No. No. Forward exchange transactions are carried out between commercial banks and custom- ers and among the commercial banks. All forward transactions must be related to un- derlying trade and financial transactions. The forward premium in the baht-U.S. dollar rate is freely determined and usually reflects interest rate differentials. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements No. No. No. Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) The Bank of Thailand (BOT) on behalf of the Ministry of Finance administers ex- change controls, but it delegates responsibility to authorized banks for approving most transactions. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Exports and imports to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Bosnia/Herzegovina) have been restricted by the Ministry of Commerce in compliance with the UN Security Council resolution. Also, Thailand previously supported the decision on Haiti. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Purchases or sales of gold on commodity futures exchanges are prohibited. Controls on external trade Imports and exports of gold other than gold jewelry are prohibited, unless a license has been obtained from the Ministry of Finance or the transaction is made on behalf of the monetary authorities. Foreign tourists may take out precious stones, gold or platinum 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 270 THAILAND Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency ornaments, and other articles without restriction. Exports of gold bullion are prohib- ited. Exporters and importers of gold ornaments exceeding B 500,000 in value must complete foreign exchange transaction forms at customs when submitting import or export entry forms. Gold ornaments are not subject to export duty or taxes. Travelers may take out domestic currency up to B 50,000. Those traveling to Vietnam and the countries bordering Thailand are allowed to take out a maximum of B 500,000. Authorized persons are allowed to deal in foreign exchange operations, but their ac- tivities are limited to the buying and selling of foreign banknotes at a set amount pre- scribed by the BOT. For purposes of travel, authorized banks are permitted to sell for- eign exchange in foreign notes without any restriction. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Yes. Yes. No. No approval required if funds originate from abroad and the total outstanding balances in all accounts do not exceed $5 million for a juridical person and $500,000 for a natu- ral person. Approval required Approval is required if deposits are made with funds of domestic origin. Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Foreign exchange accounts permitted Yes. Approval required No approval is required if funds originate from abroad. Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Approval required No approval is required if funds originate from abroad, if they are transferred from other nonresidents' baht accounts, or if baht proceeds are borrowed from authorized banks. Blocked accounts No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget No. Financing requirements for imports No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 271 Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Importers are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions of which the value exceeds B 500,000 when submitting import entry forms to customs, except for certain goods, such as military equipment imported by the Ministry of De- fense, donated goods, and samples. Import licenses and other n on tariff measures Most commodities may be freely imported, but import licenses are required for certain goods. In 1995, the quantitative restrictions on 22 agricultural products and on tobacco were eliminated. Negative list Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Imports of some goods are prohibited for protective or social reasons. Milk producers are required to purchase locally produced milk in some quantity when they import skimmed milk into Thailand. Ad valorem and/or specific duties are imposed on imports. In addition, special duties are levied on certain commodities, and surcharges are levied on imports that compete with the output of protected domestic firms. The current tariff structure is undergoing a reform aimed at reducing rates and the number of tariff bands. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding B 500,000 must be received within 180 days of the date of exportation. Exporters are required to surrender foreign exchange proceeds to authorized banks or deposit them in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt, except that they are allowed to use foreign exchange proceeds to service external obligations without having to first surrender them to authorized banks or deposit them in domestic banking accounts. Financing requirements No. Documentation requirements Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Preshipment inspection may be required by the importing country or by the institution providing export financing to the exporter. Exporters are required to complete foreign exchange transaction forms for transactions involving more than B 500,000 when submitting the export entry form at customs. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing and quantitative restrictions and, in a few cases, to prior approval, irrespective of destination. These include rice, canned tuna, sugar, certain types of coal and charcoal, and textile products. All other products may be exported freely. Yes. Yes. Exports of rice, metal scrap, hides, rubber, wood, wood articles, raw silk, and fish (unfit for human consumption) are subject to higher ad valorem or specific duties. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on these transactions, but foreign exchange transaction forms must be completed for transactions of more than $5,000, and there is a $100,000 limit a year for family maintenance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 272 THAILAND Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Yes. Surrender requirements Foreign exchange earnings from invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks or retained in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. Travelers passing through Thailand, foreign embassies, and international organizations are exempted from this requirement. Restrictions on use of funds Yes. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents The maximum foreign equity participation is limited to 25% of paid-up registered capital of locally incorporated banks, finance companies, credit finance companies, and asset management companies. The combined shareholdings of an individual and his/her relations must not exceed 5% of a bank's paid-up registered capital and 10% that of finance companies and credit foncier companies. A maximum foreign equity participa- tion is limited to 49% for other Thai corporations. The sale or issue of securities is under the jurisdiction of the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC). Under the securities law, the same rules and regulations apply to both capital market securities (those with a maturity above one year) and short-term money market securities (those debt securities with a maturity of less than one year). Foreign issuers have to comply with the same rules and regulations as the locals. Under these regulations, any companies wishing to issue securities to the public need to be approved by the SEC and file the disclosure documents with the SEC for public access. Purchase abroad by residents Requires approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Under the Securities and Exchange Act, there is a special regulation for the issue of securities abroad by residents. The potential issuer has to submit an application for approval to the SEC, and permission will be granted if the issuer can prove that the issue will only be traded overseas, both in the primary or secondary market. The objec- tive of this regulation is to provide an easy channel for approving offshore issues for which the SEC has no need to protect the investors, while at the same time assuring that this channel will not be used as a leeway for domestic issuers who do not want to comply with the local regulations. There are no restrictions associated with the transfer of proceeds on funds to service debt abroad. Under exchange control law, the proceeds can be brought in without restriction, and all services payments can also be made freely. The sale or issue of securities is under the jurisdiction of the SEC. Under the securities law, the same rules and regulations apply to both capital market securities (those with a maturity above one year) and short-term money market securities (those debt securi- ties with a maturity of less than one year). Foreign issuers have to comply with the same rules and regulations as the locals. Under those regulations, any companies wishing to issue securities to the public need to be approved by the SEC and file the disclosure documents with the SEC for public access. Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Finance companies are allowed to issue negotiable certificates of deposit (NCDs) and bills of exchange in foreign currency with more than a one-year maturity for sale to the public abroad or for sale to institutions that are authorized to operate in foreign ex- change. Under the Exchange Control Law, the transfer of the proceeds associated with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 273 these issues or the transfer of funds required to service these instruments can be made freely. No control on the purchase of securities offered by local fund management companies. Same regulations as for money market instruments apply. On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents These transactions require approval of the EOT. Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Controls on credit operations Commercial credits Financial credits By residents to nonresidents Under the securities law, the launching of funds requires approval from the SEC, both locally or abroad. Only local fund management companies are allowed to issue collec- tive investments. In addition, funds managed by local firms will be deemed to be Thai, regardless of the nationality of the majority of the unit holders. Under the Exchange Control Law, the transfer of proceeds and the transfer of funds required to service these instruments can be made freely. There is no control under the securities law that applies to the purchase or sale of de- rivatives in the local markets by nonresidents, nor the purchase or sale of these instru- ments abroad by residents. However, pursuant to section 98(4) and (8) of the act, a securities company is not permitted to purchase or sell futures or options on securities, whether in its own name or for customers, or to engage in any business that is not a licensed securities business unless the SEC issues a notification or grants an approval allowing such transaction or business. Under the Exchange Control Law, the purchase of derivative instruments by residents and the transfer of funds require approval by the EOT. There is no restriction for non- residents to purchase and sell financial instruments in the local market. However, the issuance of warrants or equity-related instruments and bonds by nonresidents in the local market is subject to approval by the SEC. The approval criteria is based on the soundness of the underlying stock. There is no discriminatory practice against nonresi- dents for participating in the financial market. Yes. Yes. No. Only authorized banks are allowed to grant financial credits subject to the rule of net foreign exchange position. Under exchange control laws, residents may only grant loans to their affiliated company if they own at least 25% of total shares in the company. Loans must not exceed $10 million a year without approval from the EOT. To residents from nonresidents There is no control. Repayment of financial credits to nonresidents can be made freely as long as residents have an obligation to pay to nonresidents in foreign currency. Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities No. Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Foreign direct investments exceeding $10 million a year require approval from the EOT. Foreign capital may be brought into the country and loans contracted without control, but proceeds must be surrendered to authorized banks or deposited in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Thailand within 15 days of receipt. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 274 THAILAND Controls on liquidation of direct investment All proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct foreign investment including capital gains, can be repatriated without restriction upon submission of supporting evidence. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Yes. Purchase locally by nonresidents Nonresidents are not allowed to purchase local real estate except condominiums with money that originates from abroad. Sale locally by nonresidents Yes. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Liquid asset requirements Investment regulations The acquisition of foreign currency assets by purchasing securities, granting foreign currency loans, or even maintaining overseas accounts, and the creation of foreign cur- rency liabilities are subject to the ratio of net open position to capital base requirement. Government financial institutions, except for the Export-Import Bank of Thailand, are not allowed to practice foreign lending activity. Authorized banks in Thailand may lend to nonresidents in foreign currency without restriction. Foreign currency loans may be extended to residents for outward remittance or domestic use. If loans are used domes- tically, resident borrowers are required to convert the foreign currency obtained into baht, which they are not allowed to deposit in foreign currency accounts. Banks are not allowed to count as foreign assets loans in foreign currencies to purchase unused land or for personal reasons, and only 50 percent of certain other loans may be counted as foreign assets, unless the borrower fully covers his exchange risk by buying the ex- change forward at the same bank that extended the loan. Banks can lend locally in currencies other than baht. Commercial lending denominated in foreign currencies to particular industries can be partially (50%) included as foreign assets in order to recognize the potential risk that banks may not be fully repaid, as exchange rate risk is heightened. Overall, commercial banks are required to hold liquid assets of no less than 7% of their deposit base. The liquid assets comprise 3% in nonremunerated balance at the BOT, 2.5% in vault cash, and the rest in government and other eligible securities. Finance companies are also required to hold a 7% liquid asset ratio: 0.5% in nonremunerated balance at the BOT, and the rest in the form of deposits at banks located in Thailand, lending on demand to banks in Thailand, and eligible securities. For the nonresident baht accounts with a maturity of less than one year, commercial banks, finance compa- nies, and finance and securities companies are required to maintain cash reserves. Commercial banks are allowed to buy or hold shares in a limited company (including public companies) in an amount not exceeding 10% of the total shares sold. Moreover, the amount invested must not exceed 20% of their capital fund. Banks can seek approval to hold shares above the 10% limit in the following cases: (1) companies set up for supporting functions; (2) companies that operate as financial arms, such as leasing companies and factoring companies; (3) companies set up to manage foreclosed properties; and (4) companies set up to manage projects that are beneficial to the economy, especially infrastructure projects. Open foreign exchange position limits The ratio imposed is between -15% (for a negative balance) and 20% (for a positive balance). Provisions specific to institutional investors Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Mutual funds and provident funds have to invest their total portfolio in the domestic market. The criteria for life insurance and nonlife insurance companies to invest abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND 275 are as follows: (1) the fund can be invested in equity and debenture issued by juridical persons incorporated under the ASEAN agreement or the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacific (ESCAP) agreement to specifically operate reinsur- ance businesses; and (2) the funds may be invested in equity issued by nonresident juridical persons other than as specified in (1) with approval from authorities, and by using the surplus funds. Total investments under (1) and (2) must not exceed 5% of the total assets. Other controls imposed by securities Under the Securities Act, there are no restrictions for nonresidents to have equity par- laws ticipation in Thai security companies. However, the National Executive Decree No. 281 imposes the 50% limit on nonresident's equity participation in any companies. Foreign securities companies are permitted to have access to the Thai securities market in the form of representative offices in which their roles are limited to providing re- search material for their parent companies. In addition, they are allowed to enter into joint partnership with Thai securities companies and to provide any professional con- sultancy services. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position as of May 31,1996) Article Vm Date of acceptance: March 22,1990. Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Exchange Arrangement The currency of Turkey is the Turkish lira. No. Unitary. On each business day, the Central Bank of Turkey (CBT) announces an indicative ex- change rate that is determined as the average of buying and selling rates of the ten banks with the largest involvement in foreign exchange trading. Commercial banks, special financial institutions, authorized institutions, post, telephone, and telegraphic offices (PTT), and precious metal intermediary institutions are free to set their ex- change rates according to prevalent market conditions. The lowest and highest rates applied in these transactions are to be reported daily to the CBT. No. No. Banks and precious metal brokerage institutions may deal with forward transactions within the framework of the open position limits determined by the CBT. Forward exchange rates are freely established between the banks and their customers in accor- dance with international practices. On November 24, 1995, the CBT announced the establishment of an interbank forward exchange market that would operate alongside the existing interbank spot market. Official cover of forward operations Banks enter into swap transactions with the CBT with terms of quarterly periods up to 12 months. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Certain commercial transactions with the Baltic countries, Russia, other countries of the FSU, the Czech Republic, Poland, and the Slovak Republic are made through spe- cial accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries are made in convertible currencies. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Other payments arrangements Clearing agreements With the Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, and the Slovak Republic. Administration of control Exchange control authorities International security restrictions The undersecretariat of the Treasury and the CBT administrate the exchange controls; the undersecretariat of the Treasury authorizes banks to engage in foreign exchange operations, and regulates and supervises banks' open foreign exchange position limits together with the CBT. In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Turkey notified the Fund, on September 12, 1990, that certain restrictions were im- posed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions to 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 277 the government of Iraq. Turkey notified the Fund on August 5,1992, that, in compli- ance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international trans- actions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). How- ever, effective May 2,1996, restrictions that had been imposed on foreign trade, trans- fers for foreign exchange, and credit letters in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia were abolished. Yes. No. Exports and imports of precious metals, stones, and articles are free within the frame- work of the Foreign Trade Regime. The CBT and the precious metals intermediary institutions that are members of the Istanbul Gold Exchange, which began operation on July 26, 1995, may import unprocessed gold without being subject to the provisions of the Foreign Trade Regime. Unprocessed gold may also be imported by the CBT and by precious metals intermediary institutions that are members of the Precious Metals Ex- change. However, the unprocessed gold imported by precious metals intermediary insti- tutions that are members of the Precious Metals Exchange must be surrendered to the Istanbul Gold Exchange within three days. The purchase and sale in Turkey of unproc- essed gold imported by the CBT and by precious metals intermediary institutions can only be conducted at the Istanbul Gold Exchange. The buying and selling prices of gold is freely determined by banks. Banks may open gold deposit accounts in the name of legal and real entities residing in Turkey and abroad. The account holders may freely use balances on their accounts. Within the framework of the banking regulations, banks may extend gold credits to juridical and natural persons involved in the jewelry business, upon the physical delivery of the gold purchased by their institutions and against the gold held in the gold deposit accounts. The purchase and sale of precious metals, stones, and articles are free within the coun- try. Passengers may bring into and take out of the country ornamental articles made from precious metals and stones of which the value does not exceed $15,000. The tak- ing out of ornamental articles exceeding this value is dependent on their declaration upon arrival or authenticating that they have been purchased in Turkey. Travelers may freely take Turkish currency out of the country up to the equivalent of $5,000. Travelers may freely take up to $5,000 or its equivalent of foreign currency notes out of the country. To take out more than this amount, nonresidents must declare bringing them in upon arrival, and residents must present a document confirming that the for- eign banknotes were purchased for invisible transactions. Resident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Balances may be used freely. Yes. Yes. No. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 278 TURKEY Held abroad Approval required Yes. No. Accounts in domestic currency con- No. vertible into foreign currency Nonresident Accounts Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Balances may be used freely. Foreign exchange accounts permitted No. Domestic currency accounts The holders may dispose of such accounts at their discretion. Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Imports and Import Payments No. No. No. No. The import of goods that are explicitly prohibited by law, e.g., narcotics, weapons, foreign coins made of metals other than gold, and ammunition, are allowed only with a special permit from the authorities. Old, used, reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor quality goods may be imported only with special permission from the undersecretariat of the Treasury. But certain used goods that are not older than five years may be imported freely. All commercial imports require import licenses; their length of validity is determined by the authorized parties and may be extended according to principles determined by the CBT. Import licenses are issued to registered importers, industrialists, state eco- nomic enterprises, and government departments. No special permit is required for an authorized person to apply to any bank for an import license. Since the beginning of 1996, the import license requirement has been abolished. Quotas are implemented as a requirement for the harmonization of the import policy of Turkey with that of the EU. Import taxes and/or tariffs State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Exports and Export Proceeds Foreign exchange receipts from merchandise exports must be repatriated within 180 days of the date of shipment. Exporters are allowed to offset the payments on imports and invisible transactions by their export proceeds if they are repatriated within 180 days. Foreign exchange receipts from merchandise exports must be surrendered within 180 days of the date of repatriation. If exchange receipts are surrendered within 90 days, exporters are entitled to retain 30% of proceeds, which they may deposit in foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY 279 exchange accounts with commercial banks, keep abroad, or dispose of freely. Exporters may retain export proceeds abroad up to $50,000. Effective June 1996, banks, special financial institutions and the post, telephone, and telegraphic offices are required to sell to the foreign currency notes market and the CBT 4% and 10%, respectively, of all foreign exchange they obtain from exports, invisible transactions, and gold accounts within a period agreed with the CBT. Yes. Yes. Yes. A new export credit program was introduced on January 15, 1996 by the Turkish Eximbank. The importing countries are classified into three groups; OECD commercial interest referee rates, government board yields, and SDR basket rates are applied to these loans. Exports are generally free, but for the exportation of a few goods, permission from authorized institutions is required in advance. Exportation of certain goods requires registration for purposes of information on the importing country, price, quantity, and the method of payment, etc. A few products are subject to quotas. Documentation requirements Letters of credit Guarantees Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Export taxes on nuts, olive oil, rye, and processed leather are collected through the exchange system. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Residents are allowed to use credit cards on a revolving basis up to a limit of $10,000 for travel and expenses abroad; balances exceeding $10,000 must be settled within 30 days. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on cap ital and money mar- ket instruments Capital Transactions Purchases and sales by nonresidents (including investments, partnerships, and mutual funds abroad) of all kinds of securities and other capital instruments through the banks and intermediary institutions authorized according to the capital legislation may be made freely. The transfer of income from such securities and instruments as well as the proceeds from their sale may be effected freely through banks and special financial institutions. Purchases and sales by residents of the securities traded in foreign finan- cial markets are also free, provided that the transactions are carried out by banks, spe- cial financial institutions, and intermediary institutions authorized according to the capital market legislation and that the transfer of their purchase value abroad is made through banks and special financial institutions. Sale or issue by nonresidents are sub- ject to the permission of the Capital Market Board. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 280 TURKEY Controls on derivatives and other instruments No. Controls on credit operations Commercial credits To residents from nonresidents Financial credits Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment In accordance with Article 17-a of the Decree No. 32 on the Protection of the Value of the Turkish Currency, residents may freely obtain credits from abroad provided that they utilize such credits through the banks or special financial institutions. However, the maturity of prefinancing credits is one year. No. No. In accordance with Article 13 of the Decree No. 32 on the Protection of the Value of the Turkish Currency, residents may freely export capital in cash up to $5 million or its equivalent in other foreign currencies through banks or special financial institutions and capital in kind within the framework of the provisions of the customs legislation, with the purpose of investment, incorporating companies for commercial purposes, participating in an enterprise, or opening branches abroad. The permission to export capital in cash and/or in kind exceeding $5 million is given by the ministry to which the undersecretariat of the Treasury is attached. In accordance with Article 12 of the Decree No. 32 on the Protection of the Value of the Turkish Currency, nonresidents may freely form a company, participate in the com- panies and liaison offices established, and engage in all activities aimed at the produc- tion of of goods and services provided that permission is obtained from the undersecre- tariat of the Treasury within the framework of the Encouragement of Foreign Capital Law, and that the required capital is brought into the country. In establishing partner- ship or joint companies in the Turkish private sector, foreign investors must bring in a minimum of $50,000 of capital. Controls on liquidation of direct investment Profits and dividends and the proceeds from sales and liquidation of foreign capital may be transferred abroad and must be reported to the CBT. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Subject to reciprocity and other restricted areas. By Article 87 of Village Act No. 442, the acquisition of real estate in villages of Turkey by nonresidents is prohibited. If nonresidents acquire real estate via inheritance in villages of Turkey, it must be liquidated. In accordance with Article 36 of Land Registration Act No. 2644, for nonresidents to acquire real estate exceeding 30 hectares in independent rural areas not belonging to a village, a decision of the Council of Ministers is required. According to Articles 7, 9, and 28 of Military Forbidden Areas and Securities Areas Act No. 2665, nonresidents cannot acquire real estate in these areas. Nonresidents can acquire real estate in Turkey for tourism, petroleum, and banking activities by the decision of the Council of Ministers. Resident banks and special financial institutions are free to extend credits abroad within the framework of the banking customs and practices. However, in accordance with Article 17-b(IV) of the Decree No. 32 on the Protection of the Value of the Turk- ish Currency, the resident bank and special financial institutions can extend credits to nonresidents in foreign exchange and in Turkish liras up to the total amount of the foreign exchange credits they have obtained and their foreign exchange deposit ac- counts, provided that the amount of the credits is within the limits determined in the Banking Law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lending locally in foreign exchange Yes. TURKEY 281 Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Open foreign exchange position limits According to the regulations on liquidity and reserve requirements, while different ratios are applied to Turkish lira deposits and foreign exchange deposits, there is no difference between the ratios applied to the deposit accounts of nonresidents and resi- dents. According to the regulations concerning liquidity requirements on commercial banks, 6% is applied to Turkish lira deposits and 3% to foreign currency deposits. According to the communique on "Total Net Foreign Exchange Position/Capital Base," the ratio of the total net position to the capital base can never exceed 50%. Capital base is calculated by deducting some assets from capital, which is the sum of the core capi- tal and supplementary capital. Other controls imposed by securities laws No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position as of December 31,1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vm Date of acceptance: February 15, 1961. Exchange Arrangement Currency Other legal tender The currency of the United Kingdom is the pound sterling. Gold sovereigns and britannias are legal tender but do not circulate. Exchange rate structure Unitary. Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market The exchange rate of the pound sterling is determined on the basis of supply and de- mand. However, the authorities may intervene at their discretion to moderate undue fluctuations in the exchange rate. (The United Kingdom suspended intervention obli- gations with respect to the exchange rate and intervention mechanism of the EMS on September 16, 1992.) No. No. Banks are allowed to engage in forward exchange transactions in any currency, and they may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market exchange rates. Official cover of forward operations No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Other payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) No. No. No. No. The United Kingdom notified the IMF on July 26, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 757 (1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). The United Kingdom also notified the IMF on September 22, 1994 that, in compliance with UN Security Council Resolutions No. 883 and 841 (1993), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in respect Libya and Haiti. Sanctions against the latter were lifted in October 1994. Restrictions against Iraq, as reported to the IMF on August 13, 1990, continue to be enforced. Since Octo- ber 1994, there have been sanctions against the Serbian-held areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Sanctions against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) were lifted in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 1074 with effect from October 3, 1996. In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Yes. No. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 283 Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Gold bullion and gold coins are not subject to control in the United Kingdom. Gold coins have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man and are legal tender there. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin that is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or that, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. There is a gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded. The exportation of gold in manufactured form more than 50 years old and valued at £8,000 and over for each item, or matching set of items, also requires a license from the Department of National Heritage. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts Yes. Yes. Yes. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas No. No. No. Yes. Most imports are admitted to the United Kingdom under an open general import li- cense. The remaining restrictions concern textiles and clothing under the MFA and are main- tained under various EU bilateral agreements with third countries that are not members ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 284 UNITED KINGDOM of the MFA, certain steel products from the Russian Federation and Ukraine that are subject to the EU bilateral agreements, autonomous EU-wide restrictions on imports of certain steel products from Kazakstan, EU-wide tariff quotas on certain products pro- duced in the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, and EU-wide quotas on seven categories of goods originating in China. Imports of cars from Japan are also subject to restraint under a separate agreement (the Elements of Consensus) between the EU and the Japanese government. A few articles may be imported under open individual li- censes (i.e., without limit as to quantity or value). Imports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mutton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricultural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EU regulations. Yes. No. No. No. No. No. No. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain products are controlled for reasons of national security, animal wel- fare, national heritage, and in accordance with international agreements. Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Controls on capital and money mar- No. ket instruments Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations No. No. Capital Transactions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment UNITED KINGDOM 285 The Industry Act of 1975 gives the necessary powers to the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry to prohibit a proposed transfer of control of an important United Kingdom manufacturing undertaking to a nonresident where the transfer is considered contrary to the interests of the United Kingdom or a substantial part of it. If it is considered that the national interest cannot appropriately be protected in any other way, property in such a proposal or completed transfer may be compulsorily acquired against compensa- tion. Both prohibition and vesting orders are subject to parliamentary approval. These powers have not been used to date. Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Open foreign exchange position limits Net spot liabilities in foreign currencies (i.e., the net amount of foreign currency re- sources funding sterling assets) form part of a bank's eligible liabilities that are subject to a 0.35% non-interest-bearing deposit requirement with the Bank of England and may also be subject to calls for special deposits to be placed with the bank. There is cur- rently no special deposit call. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position as of May 31,1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: December 10,1946. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Administration of control International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Exchange Arrangement The currency of the United States is the U.S. dollar. No. Unitary. The exchange rate of the U.S. dollar is determined freely in the foreign exchange market. No. No. Yes. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts No. No. No. The Department of the Treasury administers economic sanction programs involving direct or indirect financial or commercial transactions with Cuba, the Democratic Peo- ple's Republic of Korea, Iraq, Libya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, and the UN-protected areas of Croatia, foreign terrorists who disrupt the Middle East peace process, and significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia, as specified under, respectively, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, the Foreign As- sets Control Regulations, the Libyan Sanctions Regulations, the Iraqi Sanctions Regu- lations, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) Sanctions Regu- lations. It also has administrative responsibility for blocked accounts of the above countries and Cambodian accounts blocked in the name of the Exchange Support Fund for the Khmer Republic. (Regulations implementing the terrorism and narcotics pro- grams had not been published by the end of 1995.) The United States notified the IMF on June 26, 1992 that, in compliance with UN Se- curity Council Resolution No. 757(1992), certain restrictions had been imposed on the making of payments and transfers for current international transactions in regard to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Yes. No. No. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 287 Controls on exports and imports of banknotes Individuals leaving or entering the United States with more than $10,000 in domestic or foreign currency, traveler's checks, money orders, or bearer-form negotiable securi- ties must declare these to customs at the point of exit or entry. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. The accounts of Cuba, Cambodia, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Iraq, Libya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), the areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, the UN-protected areas of Croatia, Middle East terrorists, and significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other n on tariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Licenses with quotas The importation of goods and services that originate in Cuba, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), those parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, and the UN-protected areas of Croatia are prohibited unless spe- cifically authorized. Import quotas are in effect for certain agricultural products, including cotton of speci- fied staple lengths, some cotton waste and products, certain dairy products, peanuts, and various products containing sugar. Import quotas, except those for peanuts, certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 288 UNITED STATES cotton products, butter, certain other dairy products, and specific products containing sugar, are on a country-of-origin basis. Quotas may be imposed on certain types of meat under conditions set forth in the Meat Import Act of 1979. Most dairy products that are subject to quotas are also subject to import licensing. Bilateral import quota agree- ments on textiles and clothing exist with numerous countries, which are to be phased out over ten years beginning in 1995 under the ATC, negotiated in the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, which became effective on January 1, 1995, super- seding the MFA. The ATC provided for the gradual and complete integration of apparel and textile products into the WTO regime over a ten-year transition period, and the gradual phas- ing out of quantitative restrictions on textile and apparel exports to the United States. "Integrated products" have been removed from the scope of the ATC's special safeguard mechanism, and any applicable quotas have been eliminated. Integration is taking place in four stages: in 1995, 16% (by volume) of textile and apparel trade was integrated; at the beginning of year four and year seven an additional 17% and 18%, respectively, will be integrated; and after year ten, all remaining products will be integrated. With regard to the phasing out of quotas, the vast majority of quotas affecting imports to the United States will be subject to automatic "growth-on-growth" liberalization each year of the transition period. For example, in 1995, the annual quota growth rate was in- creased by 16%. Import tariffs are generally low, with higher-than-average rates for imports of bever- ages and tobacco, textiles and clothing, and leather and footwear. As a result of the Uruguay Round, all tariff lines are bound. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. Ammunition may be exported only under license issued by the Office of Defense Trade Controls in the Department of State. The Department of Commerce administers con- trols directly on exports of crime control and detection equipment, as well as on in- struments and related technical data, to all countries except other members of the NATO, Australia, Japan, and New Zealand. The Department of Commerce administers controls directly on exports of other goods from the United States and on reexports of goods of U.S. origin from any area. Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments There are no controls on payments for invisible transactions and current payments, except as noted above with respect to international security restrictions. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES 289 Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On money market instruments Sale or issue locally by nonresidents On collective investment securities Controls on derivatives and other instruments Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Laws on inward direct investment apply to purchases in the U.S. by nonresidents. The restriction applies only to the purchases by nonresidents of securities that may be re- stricted by laws on inward direct investment and establishment in the nuclear energy, maritime, communications, and air transport industries. Foreign mutual funds are restricted. This restriction applies only to: (1) nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and (2) the use of small business registration forms and a small-issues exemption by nonresident issuers. Foreign mutual funds are restricted. The restriction applies only to nonresident issuers that are defined as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940. No. No. The Johnson Act prohibits, with certain exceptions, persons within the United States from dealing in financial obligations or extending loans to foreign governments that have defaulted on payments of their obligations to the U.S. government. The act does not apply to those foreign governments that are members of both the IMF and the World Bank. Foreign acquisitions that threaten to impair national security may be suspended or prohibited. Investments involving ownership interest in banks are subject to federal and state banking laws and regulations. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with or involving Cuba, Iraq, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Libya, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro), those areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, foreign terrorists who dis- rupt the Middle East peace process, and significant narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia. The 1988 Omnibus Trade Act contained a provision, the Exxon-Florio Amendment, authorizing the president to suspend or prohibit foreign acquisitions, mergers, and takeovers in the United States if he determines that the foreign investor might take action that would threaten to impair national security and if existing laws, other than the International Emergency Powers Act and the Exxon-Florio Amendment itself, are not, in the president's judgment, adequate or appropriate to protect national security. Controls on l iqu idat ion of direct investment No. Controls on real estate transactions Purchase locally by nonresidents Ownership of agricultural land by foreign nationals or by corporations in which foreign owners have a significant interest (at least 10%) or substantial control must be reported to the Department of Agriculture. Certain states in the United States impose various restrictions on foreign nationals' purchases of land within their borders. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 290 UNITED STATES Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Provisions specific to institutional investors No. No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position as of December 31, 1995) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article VHI Date of acceptance: May 2,1980. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange Arrangement The currency of Uruguay is the Uruguayan peso. No. Unitary. The Central Bank of Uruguay (CBU) intervenes to ensure that the exchange rate re- mains within the higher and lower limits of the exchange rate band of 7%, but allows market rates to float freely within these limits. The CBU periodically announces its intervention buying and selling rates. Purchases of foreign exchange by public sector institutions are subject to a tax of 2%, with the exception of those by the CBU and official banks, which are exempt from the tax. Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements All settlements of balances under the multilateral clearing system are made in U.S. dollars. Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control Exchange control authorities There is an arrangement with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Bilateral payments with Cuba are inoperative. Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded recip- rocal credit arrangements may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks within the framework of the multilateral clearing system of the LAIA. There are arrangements for trade in specific goods with Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico, among other countries. There is a similar arrangement with Cuba, but settlements are effected in a currency other than the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions are carried out through authorized banks, financial houses, ex- change houses, and the Bank of the Republic. Exchange houses must be authorized by the CBU. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. No. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 292 URUGUAY Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, and sell financial gold with a fineness of not less than 0.9 in Uruguay or abroad. Gold for industrial purposes is subject to the general policy that governs the exporta- tion, importation, and trading of goods. Controls on exports and imports of banknotes No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. Yes. No. Yes. No. Yes. Eligibility to hold accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Nonresident Accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Yes. No. Yes. Yes. No. No. Imports and Import Payments Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Import licenses and other nontariff measures No. No. No. Negative list Open general licenses Imports of used cars are prohibited. All imports are subject to registration. The registrations are generally valid for 180 days, and goods must be cleared through customs during this period. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Without quotas URUGUAY 293 Under MERCOSUR, a common external tariff (CET) exists among Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay. It consists of 11 rates of up to 20%. Regionally produced capital and telecommunications goods are subject to tariffs of 14% and 16%, respec- tively. Parties to MERCOSUR were permitted to exempt up to 300 goods from the CET until the year 2001, at which time they are to converge to the CET. In addition, for Uruguay tariffs on capital goods, telecommunications, buses, and trucks will not con- verge until 2006. Import duties among MERCOSUR countries were generally eliminated, with certain exceptions: in Uruguay's case, exemptions on Pharmaceuticals, plastics, automobile parts, textiles, and dairy products may remain in place through 1999. Duties on wheat, tires, paper, glass, sugar, textiles, and apparel are computed on the basis of "minimum export prices," which provide a basis for a sliding surcharge on these goods depending on the difference between the minimum prices and declared c.i.f. import prices. Exports and Export Proceeds No. No. No. No. No. No. From time to time, and for special reasons (e.g., stock position, domestic industry pro- tection, or sanitary considerations), certain exports are prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Export taxes Exports of dry, salted, and pickled hides are subject to an export tax of 5%. Taxes collected through the exchange system No. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments No. Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds No. No. No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Uruguayan securities market operations are completely deregulated in the private sec- tor, irrespective of residence or nationality, except for those establishments that are regulated as financial intermediation institutions, insurance companies, and pension ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 294 URUGUAY fund managers, which have their own regime. In the public sector, the type of operation permitted depends on the type of institution. Government agencies are covered by their own by-laws, and the central government and departmental governments are covered by their own procedures, which are more restrictive. On money market instruments No. On collective investment securities The investment fund market is not regulated. Controls on derivatives and other instruments There are no derivative operations on the securities market, not even for commodities. As they do not exist, they are not regulated. Controls on credit operations Controls on direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment No. No. No. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Borrowing abroad is not permitted. Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Open foreign exchange position limits There is one minimum mandatory reserve requirement for local currency and another for foreign currency. The rates are the same (10%), except for 30- to 180-day deposits on which the local currency reserve requirement is 4% and the foreign currency reserve requirement is 10%. These reserve requirements are for currency holdings and notes, and demand deposits at the CBU in their respective currencies. Nonresident deposits placed with nonresidents are exempt from the foreign currency reserve requirement. Also, when establishing such reserves, the deposit at the CBU should be in an amount of not less than 50% of the minimum mandatory reserve requirement. There is a mini- mum interest-bearing mandatory reserve requirement of 10% in local currency on total deposits and other obligations covered by the non-interest-bearing reserve requirement regime. This reserve requirement can be established by a deposit at the CBU. There is also an 11.5% mandatory holding in dollar-denominated treasury notes on foreign cur- rency deposits and liabilities under the reserve requirement regime, excluding those of nonresidents applying to placements with nonresidents. There is a ceiling on local and foreign currency holding positions of 150% of the book value of equity less administrative fixed assets. There is also a ceiling on the asset or liability position of foreign-currency-denominated "operations to be settled" (i.e., future contracts and sales of securities subject to repurchase agreements) of 20% of the book value equity (i.e., fixed assets, investments, and deferred charges) less administrative fixed assets. Provisions specific to institutional investors Other controls imposed by securities laws No. No. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position as of July 31,1996) Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Article Vin Date of acceptance: July 1,1976. Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Classification Managed floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Exchange Arrangement The currency of Venezuela is the bolivar. Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender, but they do not circulate. On June 22,1995, a legal parallel market for foreign exchange was created, with the authorized trading on local securities exchanges of foreign-currency-denominated gov- ernment bonds trading on the secondary market ("Brady bonds"), for settlement in bo- livares. An exchange rate applicable to tourism and credit card transactions was tempo- rarily introduced in October 1995. On April 22, 1996, the exchange rates were unified. On July 8, 1996, an exchange rate band of ±7.5% was introduced with an initial rate of Bs 470 per $ 1. During the remainder of 1996, the central rate has been adapted in line with the inflation target for the first quarter of 1996, to 1.5% a month. No. No. No. Arrangements for Payments and Receipts Prescription of currency requirements No. Bilateral payments arrangements No. Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Administration of control Yes. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be settled through the accounts maintained with each other at the Central Bank of Venezuela (CBV). Under the system of exchange controls established on July 11 ,1994, the newly created Exchange Administration Board (EAB) and the associated Technical Administration Office are responsible for the administration of exchange transactions. The EAB was closed with the elimination of exchange controls in April 22, 1996. International security restrictions Payments arrears No. Yes. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 296 VENEZUELA Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes The exportation of nonmonetary gold (other than jewelry for personal use) and gold coins are subject to prior authorization from the CBV. Exports and imports of banknotes are subject to authorization by the CBV. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Resident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Yes. No. Yes. No. No. Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical and natural persons are eligible. Nonresident Accounts Foreign exchange accounts permitted Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Blocked accounts No. Yes. No. No. Foreign exchange budget No. Imports and Import Payments Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Letters of credit Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures As of October 18, 1995, importers were allowed to purchase only 30% of the author- ized sale of foreign exchange at the time of customs clearance; the remaining amount is provided in equal parts 90 and 120 days subsequent to customs clearance. This latter requirement was not applied to imports of agricultural goods or other goods that are deemed to be essential. (On April 22, 1996, when exchange rates were unified under a managed floating system, all import requirements were abolished.) Letters of credit are required for importers using the LAIA facility. During 1995, applications for the purchase of foreign exchange for all imports in ex- cess of $5,000 must be approved by the EAB. Some imports are subject to licensing for environmental, health, or security reasons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 297 Positive list Negative list Imports of military arms must be authorized by the Ministry of Defense. Imports of nonmilitary weapons must be authorized by the Ministry of Domestic Affairs. Some 24 tariff items, of which 7 are chemicals and about 17 are agro-industrial products, require approval from the import office. Importation of used motor vehicles is prohibited, except for hearses, prison vans, and ambulances. Licenses with quotas A very small number of agricultural products are subject to quantitative restrictions. Import taxes and/or tariffs There are four basic ad valorem tariff rates on manufactured goods (5%, 10%, 15%, and 20%), except for motor vehicles, which are subject to a special regime under the Andean Pact. The common external tariff on motor vehicles is 35% for passenger cars, 15% for cargo and commercial vehicles (except for vehicles under 4,500 kg. such as pickup trucks, for which the rate is 25%), and 3% for vehicle components and parts manufactured in member countries. Specific duties apply to agricultural products and certain other products (e.g., mineral fuels, oil, mineral wax, distilled products, and bituminous substances). The industrial free zone of Paraguana and the free port of Margarita Island enjoy a special customs regime that includes exemptions from customs tariffs. Duty-free access is granted to imports from Colombia, Ecuador, and CARICOM countries under trade agreements. Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly No. No. Repatriation requirements Yes. Exports and Export Proceeds Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Export licenses Export taxes The surrender requirement was up to 90%; exporters could retain up to 10% of the foreign exchange to meet commitments abroad but, subject to verification, large ex- porters could retain unlimited amounts of foreign exchange to meet commitments abroad. Proceeds from petroleum exports, through the state petroleum company (PDVSA) were also required to be surrendered to the CBV, until April 22, 1996, when all export requirements were abolished. No. No. No. Exports of agricultural commodities (except those destined to Andean Pact countries) are entitled to a fiscal credit of 10% of f.o.b. value in the form of a negotiable bond used for tax payments that is issued by the Ministry of Finance. Fiscal credits for manufactured products have been replaced by a duty drawback system. There is an export tax on hydrocarbons. Taxes collected through the exchange system PDVSA exports are subject to a surtax on the foreign exchange obtained from their exports of 4% in 1995. This surtax will be eliminated by end-1996. Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Until April 22, 1996, when controls on these payments were eliminated, all transfers for invisibles had to be authorized by the EAB, except for purchases of foreign ex- change for travel and remittances abroad, which were subject to annual limits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 298 VENEZUELA Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Repatriation requirements No. Surrender requirements Requirements were abolished on April 22,1996. Restrictions on use of funds No. Capital Transactions Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Foreign investors are allowed to purchase corporate stocks in the Caracas Stock Exchange but must inform the Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SIEX) of such purchases at the end of each calendar year. Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Must be authorized by the Comisi6n Nacional de Valores (CNV), taking into account the government's opinion. On money market instruments No. On collective investment securities Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Authorization by the CNV is required. There are regulations concerning derivatives. Controls on credit operations No. Controls on direct investment Inward direct investment Mass media, communications, newspapers in Spanish, and security services are re- served for national ownership. New investments do not require prior authorization from the SIEX but must be registered with the SIEX after the fact, and approval is automati- cally granted if the new investment is consistent with national legislation. Foreign en- terprises may establish subsidiaries in Venezuela without prior authorization as long as they are consistent with the Commercial Code. The SIEX must however be notified within 60 working days about newly established subsidiaries. Foreign direct investment in the petroleum and iron sectors is subject to specific regulations. Controls on real estate transactions No. Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Lending locally in foreign exchange Local banks can make loans denominated in foreign exchange. Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange There are limits regulated by the BCV in relation to foreign exchange position limits. Reserve requirements Yes. Liquid asset requirements Requirements are set by the BCV according to its monetary policy. Investment regulations Commercial banks are not allowed to invest in stocks in excess of 20% of paid-in capital. Credit controls Yes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA 299 Open foreign exchange position limits Limits are set by the BC V. Provisions specific to institutional investors No. Other controls imposed by securities No. laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Article VHI Article XIV Currency Other legal tender Exchange rate structure Unitary Dual Multiple Classification Pegged Limited flexibility in respect to a sin- gle currency Cooperative arrangement Adjusted according to a set of indicators Managed floating Independent floating Exchange tax Exchange subsidy Forward exchange market Official cover of forward operations Prescription of currency requirements Bilateral payments arrangements Operative Inoperative Other payments arrangements Regional arrangements Clearing agreements Barter agreements and open accounts Administration of control APPENDIX Country Table Matrix Status Under IMF Articles of Agreement Exchange Arrangement Arrangements for Payments and Receipts 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 301 Exchange control authorities International security restrictions In accordance with IMF Executive Board Decision No. 144-(52/51) Other In accordance with UN sanctions Payments arrears Official Private Controls on trade in gold (coins and/or bullion) Controls on domestic ownership and/or trade Controls on external trade Controls on exports and imports of banknotes On exports Domestic currency Foreign currency On imports Domestic currency Foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Foreign exchange accounts permitted Held domestically Approval required Held abroad Approval required Accounts in domestic currency con- vertible into foreign currency Eligibility to hold accounts Juridical persons Natural persons Resident Accounts Nonresident Accounts ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 302 APPENDIX Foreign exchange accounts permitted Approval required Domestic currency accounts Convertible into foreign currency Approval required Blocked accounts Foreign exchange budget Financing requirements for imports Minimum financing requirements Advance payments requirement Advance import deposits Documentation requirements for release of foreign exchange for imports Domiciliation requirements Preshipment inspection Letters of credit Import licenses used as exchange licenses Other Import licenses and other nontariff measures Positive list Negative list Open general licenses Licenses with quotas Other nontariff measures Import taxes and/or tariffs Taxes collected through the exchange system State import monopoly Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Financing requirements Documentation requirements Imports and Import Payments Exports and Export Proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 303 Letters of credit Guarantees Domiciliation Preshipment inspection Other Export licenses Without quotas With quotas Export taxes Taxes collected through the exchange system Other export taxes Payments for Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Controls on these payments Freight/insurance Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Unloading/storage costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Administrative expenses Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Commissions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Interest payments Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Profit/dividends Prior approval Quantitative limits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 304 APPENDIX Indicative limits/bona fide test Payments for travel Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Medical costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Study abroad costs Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Subscriptions and membership fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Consulting/legal fees Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Foreign workers' wages Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Pensions Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Gambling/prize earnings Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Family maintenance/alimony Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Credit card use abroad ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 305 Prior approval Quantitative limits Indicative limits/bona fide test Proceeds from Invisible Transactions and Current Transfers Capital Transactions Repatriation requirements Surrender requirements Restrictions on use of funds Controls on capital and money mar- ket instruments On capital market securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On money market instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents On collective investment securities Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents Controls on derivatives and other instruments Purchase in the country by nonresidents Sale or issue locally by nonresidents Purchase abroad by residents Sale or issue abroad by residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 306 APPENDIX Controls on credit operations Commercial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Financial credits By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Guarantees, sureties, and financial backup facilities By residents to nonresidents To residents from nonresidents Controls on direct investment Outward direct investment Inward direct investment Controls on liquidation of direct investment Controls on real estate transactions Purchase abroad by residents Purchase locally by nonresidents Sale locally by nonresidents Provisions specific to commercial banks and other credit institutions Borrowing abroad Maintenance of accounts abroad Lending to nonresidents (financial or commercial credits) Lending locally in foreign exchange Purchase of locally issued securities denominated in foreign exchange Differential treatment of nonresident deposit accounts and/or deposit ac- counts in foreign exchange Reserve requirements Liquid asset requirements Interest rate controls Investment regulations Credit controls Open foreign exchange position limits Provisions specific to institutional investors ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution APPENDIX 307 Limits (max.) on portfolio invested abroad Limits (min.) on portfolio invested locally Currency matching regulations on assets/liabilities composition Other controls imposed by securities laws ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 