 TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1975 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND TWENTY-SIXTH ANNUAL REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS 1975 Washington, D.C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 16, 1975 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Twenty-Sixth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ H. JOHANNES WITTEVEEN Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director v ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Page P A R TI 3 5 5 in R e s t r i c t ive I. Introduction II. Ma in Deve lopmen ts Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions . . .. Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments Restrictions on Current Invisibles . . Multiple Currency Practices Import Deposits, Import Surcharges, and Measures to Stimulate Exports . . 9 Advance Import Deposits 9 Import Surcharges 10 Export Incentives and Export Taxes 10 Bilateral Payments Arrangements . . .. 11 Measures Affecting Capital 11 Gold 15 III. Regional Arrangements 16 Appendix 20 5 7 8 PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys Afghanistan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Burundi . . . Cameroon Canada Central Afr ican Republic Chad Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo, People's Republic of the 25 27 30 35 41 47 52 56 58 63 67 73 75 76 88 90 93 97 100 104 108 117 122 133 vn Costa Rica Cyprus Dahomey Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Gu inea Ethiopia Fiji Finland France Gabon The Gambia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Guinea Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Khmer Republic Korea Kuwait Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Republic Malagasy Republic Malawi Malaysia Page 137 141 144 148 153 156 160 167 171 173 176 179 183 192 195 197 202 207 212 213 215 218 219 220 221 224 237 241 246 249 254 259 266 270 276 281 284 289 294 299 301 304 306 307 308 311 314 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Mali Malta M a u r i t a n ia M au r i t ius Mexico Morocco Nepal N e th e r l ands N e th e r l ands A n t i l l es New Zea land N ica ragua Niger N ige r ia No rway Oman Pak is tan Panama Paraguay Peru Ph i l ipp ines Por tugal Qa tar Roman ia Rwanda Saudi Arab ia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia South A f r ica CONTENTS Page 320 323 326 329 332 334 339 342 347 349 354 356 360 365 368 370 375 376 379 385 392 398 399 403 406 407 411 414 417 420 Page Spa in 426 Sri Lanka 431 Sudan 437 Su r in am 440 Swaz i land 443 Sweden 444 Sw i tze r land 449 Sy r ian A r ab Repub l ic 454 T an z an ia 458 Tha i land 461 Togo 464 T r in idad and Tobago 468 Tun i s ia 472 Tu rk ey 476 Uganda 483 Un i t ed A r ab Em i ra tes 486 Un i t ed K ingdom 488 U n i t ed States 500 U p p er Vo l ta 506 U r u g u ay 510 Venezue la 516 V ie t -Nam 520 We s te rn Samoa 525 Y em en A rab Repub l ic 527 Yemen, People's Democratic Republic of 528 Yugos lav ia 530 Za i re 537 Zamb ia 540 A n a l y t i c al A p p e n d ix 544 Vlll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction1 The world economy in 1974 was marked by widening payments imbalances in many member countries, high rates of inflation on a world-wide scale, and declining growth rates among developed and developing countries alike. Although in terms of value world trade increased at a sharp rate, the rise was in only a small degree due to an expansion in the volume of trade. Because of the inflation and the sharp increase in the prices of oil and some other primary products, the value of world trade, in terms of SDKs, rose by some 45 per cent or nearly double the rate of growth in 1973. The volume of trade, however, increased at most only about 5-6 per cent-roughly half of the rate of the previous year and well below the long-term average rate of expansion. As a result of a steep upward movement of commodity prices in 1973, the terms of trade of the developing countries and other primary producing countries had improved substantially in that year, while those of the industrial countries had been unfavorably affected. In 1974, a tendency toward reversal of these shifts in terms of trade, together with the increase in the price of oil, resulted in a considerable deterioration in the terms of trade of the non-oil producing developing countries and of other primary producing countries. Reduced rates of in- crease in export volumes also affected the inter- national payments positions of these two groups of countries in 1974. Nevertheless, their import volumes increased at nearly the same rates as in 1973, thus continuing to rise considerably faster than during the decade 1960-70. This maintenance of the flow of imports into primary producing countries was accompanied by greatly increased external borrowing and sharp curtailment of the reserve gains of the immediately preceding years. It was instrumental, along with sharply rising imports by the oil exporting countries, in sustaining the expansion in the volume of exports from the industrial countries after their own imports had ceased to rise. During the period under review, conditions in world exchange markets continued to be charac- terized by pronounced fluctuations in spot exchange rates between the major currencies as had prevailed in 1973. However, the movements in market exchange rates of these currencies have been less abrupt. In 1 The period covered in this Report is 1974 and the early part of 1975. January 1974 the U.S. dollar reached a post-1973 devaluation peak against almost all other major currencies. Between January 1974 and early 1975 the currencies of the participants in the European com- mon margins arrangement, the Austrian schilling, the French franc, and the Swiss franc registered an appreciation against the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar. Within the period the movement of these exchange rates was quite divergent. There was an appreciation of the above-mentioned continental European currencies in the period January-May, followed by a substantial reversal in the period to September 1974. From September to March 1975, movements in the market exchange rates for these currencies followed a pattern similar to that in the early months of 1974. Movements in the exchange rates of the Italian lira, the Japanese yen, and the pound sterling followed a pattern within the period roughly similar to that of the movement of the currencies of the European common margins arrange- ment against the Canadian dollar and the U.S. dollar, but in considerably smaller amplitude. In terms of effective exchange rates, the currencies of the European common margins arrangement, the French franc, and the Swiss franc appreciated between January 1974 and March 1975, while the Canadian dollar, the Italian lira, the Japanese yen, the pound sterling, and the U.S. dollar experienced moderate but varied downward movements. Most other currencies peg on one of the major currencies, mainly the French franc, the pound sterling, or the U.S. dollar. In 1974 and early 1975, as in 1973, a number of countries either changed the relationship of their currency to the intervention currency, or adopted an independent exchange rate policy when the movement in the exchange rate of the intervention currency relative to other major currencies did not seem appropriate to the country's particular circumstances. Countries which had pegged their currency on the U.S. dollar and no longer do so include: Spain (January 1974), South Africa together with Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland (June 1974), Australia (September 1974), Burma and Iran (Feb- ruary 1975), and Greece, Kuwait, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia (March 1975). Burma, Iran, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia have pegged their currencies to the SDR. The other countries mentioned above have pegged their currencies to a composite of currencies of their main trading partners. Af ter France withdrew from the European common margins arrangement in January3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R E PO RT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS 1974, Algeria, Mau r i tan ia, and Tunisia unpegged from the French f ranc and have pegged their currencies to a composite of currencies. Despite the changes in the pa t te rns of world t rade and paymen ts, the emergence of widespread balance of paymen ts disequilibria, and the disparate move- men ts in the exchange ra tes of major currencies, developed countries and developing coun tr ies, with some exceptions, did not resort in a subs tan t ial degree to res tr ic t ions on cu r rent in terna t ional trans- actions. Although a numb er of coun tr ies did take a va r ie ty of domestic policy measures to res tra in effec t ive import demand, it was pr imar i ly through capital inf lows and the use of reserves that most countries sought to meet the new balance of pay- men ts s i tua t ion. S tar t ing Janua ry 29, 1974, the Un i ted States removed all l im i ta t ions on the ou t f low of cap i ta l, and Canada immed ia te ly revoked its guidelines on "pass- through" flows. The p rev ious R e p o rt no ted the ra ther ab rupt change which occurred in the l a t t er mon ths of 1973 in the policies of the Eu rop e an coun tr ies and Japan towa rd cap i tal in f lows. The per iod preced ing this change had .seen a pronounced tightening of controls on most forms of cap i tal inflows, d irec ted pa r t icu la r ly at con t ro l l ing de- stabilizing in f lows of sho r t - te rm f u n d s. Commenc ing in the third qua r ter of 1973 but pa r t icu la r ly in Janua ry and Feb rua ry 1974 the Eu ropean coun t r ies and Japan, in general, d isman t led many of the ir controls on cap i tal in f lows. Throughout the re- ma inder of 1974 and ear ly 1975 some of these countries ma in ta ined policies of positive encourage- ment to capital in f lows, and in several, public sector borrowing ab road was resumed or in tens if ied. There appears also to have been some tightening of con tro ls on capital ou tf lows. No tab le exceptions to th is policy reversal were the Be lg ian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU), the Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, the Ne ther lands, and Sw i tze r land. The last three countries also ma in ta ined certain regu la t ions limiting the acquisition by non re s iden ts of deposits and o ther short-term assets denom ina ted in their currencies. In this period there was also a l ibera l iza t ion of external controls in several of the oil expor t ing countries, par t icu lar ly I r an, I r aq, and Nigeria. M any of the other ma jor oil expo r te rs a lready had accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, name ly, Bah ra in, K uw a i t, Qa tar, and Saudi Arab ia. In Feb rua ry 1974 the Un i ted A rab Em ira tes and in June 1974 Oman accepted these obligations, bringing to 42 the numb er of members who have forma l ly accepted these obligations. 4 Early in 1974 concern was expressed by the Committee of the Board of Governors of the Inter- national Monetary Fund on Reform of the Inter- national Mone tary System and Related Issues (the Comm i t tee of Twenty) on the changed expectations regarding global balance of paymen ts pa t terns, in their Rome communique following discussions in Rome on January 17 and 18, 1974. Paragraph 2 of that commun ique s ta tes in pa r t: Members of the Committee . . . expressed serious concern at the abrupt and significant changes in prospect for the world balance of payments structure. They recognized that the current account surpluses of oil producing countries would be very greatly increased, and that many other countries-both developed and develop- ing-would have to face large current account deficits. In these difficult circumstances the Committee agreed that in managing their international paymen ts, countries must not adopt policies which would merely aggravate the problems of other countries. Accordingly, they stressed the impo r tance of avoiding competitive depreciation and the escalation of restrictions on trade and paymen ts. They f u r t h er resolved to pu r sue policies that would sustain appropr ia te levels of economic activity and emp loymen t, while minimizing in f la t ion. They recognized that serious d i f f icu l t ies would be created for many developing coun- tries and that their needs for financial resources will be greatly increased; and they urged all countries with available resources to make every e f fo rt to supply these needs on appropr ia te terms. . . . The Fund con t inued its e f fo r ts to aid countries to avoid undue resort to restrictive devices. Thus when the oil facility for 1974 was established by the Fund in June 1974 to provide assistance to members with a balance of paymen ts need resulting f rom the increase in the costs of pe t ro leum and pe tro leum produc ts in 1974, it was provided that access to the facility requ ires that a member represent that it is following policies not inconsistent with the unde r tak ings set fo r th in paragraph 2 of the Rome communique. Fu r the rmo re, a member reques t ing a purchase under the oil facility is expected to represent that while the purchase is ou ts tand ing, the member will refra in f rom imposing new, and f rom in tens i fy ing existing, restric- tions on cu r rent in te rna t ional paymen ts inconsis- ten t ly w i th its obligations und er the Fund's Articles of Ag reement and from imposing new, or in tensifying existing, restrictions on cu r rent in terna t ional trans- actions w i thout prior consultation with the Fund. Mo reove r, in the Ou t l ine of Re fo rm accompanying the f inal Report to the Board of Governors by the Committee of Twen ty, June 1974, Part II, Immed ia te Steps, paragraph 36 states: • • • P a r t i c u l ar im p o r t a n ce will be a t tached du r ing the in ter im period to avoiding the escalation of restrictions on t rade and paymen ts for balance of paymen ts purposes. To this end, member coun tr ies of the Fund will be invited to pledge themselves on a vo lun ta ry basis, in addition to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES observing their obligations with respect to payments restrictions under the Fund's Articles, for a period of two years, not to introduce or intensify trade or other current account measures for balance of payments purposes without a finding by the Fund that there is balance of payments justification for such measures. In this connec- tion arrangements will be made for continuing close coordination between the Fund and GATT. The Committee of Twenty in the detailed state- ment issued at the end of its sixth and final meeting on June 12-13, 1974 invited members to subscribe on a voluntary basis to the Declaration concerning trade and other current account measures for balance of payments purposes to give effect to this recommen- dation. The Executive Directors of the Fund were invited to establish the necessary procedures in connection with the Declaration and to make arrange- ments for continuing close coordination with the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). The Declaration is to become effective among sub- scribing members when members having 65 per cent of the total voting power of members of the Fund have accepted it, and shall expire two years from the date on which it becomes effective unless it is renewed. The Executive Directors associated them- selves with the Declaration and established the necessary procedures for its implementation. The required majority has not as yet been reached. Earlier, at the end of May 1974, a Declaration similar to that endorsed by the Committee of Twenty was adopted for a period of one year by the Governments of the member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the Secretary-General of the OECD has proposed that it be renewed for another year. In June 1974, the Committee of Twenty examined a memorandum "Guidelines for the Management of Floating Exchange Rates"2 which had been discussed by the Executive Directors of the Fund and the Deputies of the Committee of Twenty. Following the examination by the Committee, the Executive Direc- tors took the following decision: The Executive Directors have discussed the attached memorandum entitled "Guidelines for the Management of Floating Exchange Rates." They recommend, pursuant to Article IV, Section 4(0), that, in present circumstances, members should use their best endeavors to observe the guidelines set for th and explained in the memorandum. Consultations with members with floating currencies will be based on the memorandum. These guidelines will be reviewed f rom time to time in order to make any adjustments that may be appropriate. Decision No. 4232-(74/67), adopted June 13, 1974 2 See Appendix for the memorandum "Guidelines for the Management of Floating Exchange Rates." This Report, and in particular the following sections, centers on exchange restrictions, but it also covers other measures and intergovernmental arrange- ments that may have direct balance of payments implications. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices 1. Trade and Payments Restrictions In the period under review, widening balance of payments deficits and declining growth rates were reflected in a tendency toward increased reliance on quantitative and cost restrictions on imports, par- ticularly in the latter part of the period. The actual intensification of restrictions was restrained, although fairly widespread. However, many countries resorted to selective credit or fiscal measures designed to reduce imports of specified goods. On the other hand, certain countries reduced import duties or other import charges to moderate upward price pressures. Last year's Report noted the development in 1973 of shortages on a world-wide scale of basic materials and foods tuffs, and the adoption by many countries of measures to restrict exports as support for domes- tic supply and price policies. These considerations were again prominent in the period covered by this Report and the use of outright export prohibitions, usually on a temporary basis, and of quota restric- tions was often resorted to. At the same time, increased effor ts were made to prevent a decline in prices of primary products. They were reflected in measures designed to reduce production or to build up stockpiles. The measures that were taken had either a purely national character or reflected the concerted policies of several primary producers. An example of the first is the stockpiling of rubber by Malaysia, while the agreement between Chile, Peru, Za ire, and Zambia to reduce production of copper and the periodic review of pricing and production policies by the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) with regard to oil are examples of the latter. a. Restrictions on Imports and Import Payments The industrialized countries, with some notable exceptions, avoided the use of restrictions on imports as a means of countering rising current account deficits in the balance of payments. In July 1974, the European Economic Community (EEC), in im- plementing its common agricultural policy, pro- hibited imports of beef and cattle from "third" countries, a measure which had a considerable impact 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R E PO RT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS on the export earnings of some non-EEC members. Some of the developing countries and a few of the more developed primary producing countries, which in 1973 had a t temp ted to dampen domestic inf la- tionary pressures by lowering cost and quan t i ta t ive barr iers to imports, applied import res tr ic t ions for balance of paymen ts, and, at times, for protective purposes. As part of their e f fo r ts to conserve energy, a numb er of countries took measures to res tr ict impo r ts and consump t ion of oil and in some instances of passenger automobiles above a certain size. On the other hand, the oil expor t ing coun tr ies in general liberalized imports considerably. In July 1974, I re land increased global quo tas for impo r ts of specified indus tr ial goods for the period to July 1, 1975, when these items are to be fu l ly liberalized f rom all sources. Au s t r ia, F in land, France, Sweden, and the Un i ted Kingdom reduced restric- tions on imports f rom member coun tr ies of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) .3 On the other h a n d, France imposed a tax on impo r ts of oil in Janua ry 1974 and la ter placed a ceiling on the value of oil imports. Portugal set up a commission to control all imports in excess of Esc 1 million in value. Canada and Yugoslavia in t roduced systems of generalized tar iff p re fe rences in favor of developing countries, and several other countries expanded and improved their existing schemes for Generalized Systems of Preferences (GSP). They included Au s t r ia, Japan, and Switzerland. The GSP schemes of Den- ma rk, I re land, and the Un i ted Kingdom were super- seded by the EEC scheme, which was itself f u r t h er liberalized. The U.S. Trade Act of 1974, which came into force in January 1975, gave the President au thor i ty to introduce a GSP scheme; administrative steps for its imp lemen ta t ion are being taken. Australia continued to liberalize its import regime early in 1974 by reducing duties on imports of heating and domestic appliances, and abolishing quotas on clothing; toward the end of 1974, however, there was a reversal of this trend through the introduction of quotas on foo twear and fabrics, while higher duties and quotas were placed on mo tor vehicles. In May 1974, Finland ceased to apply restrictively a licensing system for imports of certain consumer goods which had been in troduced tem- porarily in August 1973. Early in 1974 Greece announced the abolition, in principle, of all remaining quantitative restrictions on private sector imports of 3 Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 6 any origin and Iceland ceased to invoke Article XII of the GATT. New Zealand raised global import quotas for raw materials and consumer goods, with arrange- ments to assure importers of continued supply; subsequen t ly, however, New Zealand tightened its administrative arrangements for licensing to curtail speculative buildups of stocks of imported goods. South A f r ica eased its import restrictions, moving a large number of goods to the f ree list, and others to the list of goods for which reasonable requirements of importers are a l lowed; import permit allocations for consumer goods were raised. During the period under review, several of the oil expor t ing coun tr ies reduced quantitative restrictions on imports. I ran in addition reduced various cost barriers to imports. Both Iraq and Nigeria eased licensing requ iremen ts dur ing the year. Venezuela eliminated quotas for 80 items, mostly foods tuffs. Among other developing countries, Colombia moved 221 items f rom the prior consultation list to the f ree list. In Janua ry 1974 Pakistan t rans fe r red a numb er of goods from the tied to the free import list and in Ju ly in t roduced the Import Policy Order, 1974, providing for add i t ional import liberalization. Pakistan and Ind ia also removed their prohibitions on t rade with each other. Thailand in t roduced a bill to l ift its ban on trade with the People's Republic of China and the Philippines signed a preliminary trade agreement with that coun try. Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Mau r i tan ia, Tanzania, and Togo ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT with respect to Japan. During the f i rst half of 1974 Brazil con t inued the policy of suspending or lowering import duties to reduce the domestic impact of in terna t ional price developments. At the end of June these suspensions and reduc t ions were revoked for all commodities except impo r tant raw materials and capital goods. In add i t ion, du ty increases of 100 percentage points were applied to a wide range of consumer goods, to be e ffec t ive through the end of 1975. These increases were la ter ex tended until the end of 1976, and the increase was applied to additional goods, including some basic materials and sem imanufac tured goods. In November, Brazil announced a program to curtail imports of consumer and capital goods by govern- ment agencies. Israel continued its policy of lowering tar iffs, and general reductions in duties on a wide range of commodities were implemented in January and July 1974. However, in November 1974 duties on 38 "luxury" imports were raised by 10 percentage points for a period of six months, while a temporary prohibition was placed on imports of 31 "luxury" items. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Many countries extended the use of quantitative controls. Among these were Barbados, the Republic of China, Ghana, Jamaica, and the Khmer Republic. Countries imposing certain import prohibitions in- cluded Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Guyana, Indonesia, Laos, Somalia, Viet-Nam, Zaire, and Zambia. Several of these countries prohibited the import of auto- mobiles, in some cases confining the ban to vehicles with larger engine capacities. Sierra Leone and the Syrian Arab Republic re- duced the degree of state trading by permitting a greater share for private sector imports. The general trend among developing countries was, however, toward increased state intervention. In December the Government of Guyana announced its intention to take over all foreign trade. Honduras introduced state trading for certain products, while India channeled ten additional import items through state agencies. Other countries extending state trading activities included Colombia, Niger, Nigeria, Tanzania, and Togo. Several countries amended the regulations govern- ing methods of import payments. Iran allowed payment against bills of collection for all imports, removing the prescription of letters of credit for nonessentials. On the other hand, in June 1974, Brazil required imports bearing customs duty of 55 per cent or more to be made on the basis of cash payment on sight; Peru imposed minimum-term financing arrangements for imports. The Philippines directed banks not to accept applications for the sale of foreign exchange, or the opening of letters of credit, for specified textiles, and made payments for imports of certain synthetic fibers and yarns subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. Uruguay reduced the minimum terms for external finance of imported capital goods and Zaire imposed a require- ment of 90 days credit or a 3 per cent discount for all imports. Nigeria abolished the compulsory 90-day deferred payment requirement for imports in April 1974 and eased the financing requirements for capital goods. b. Restrictions on Current Invisibles The major industrial countries and a number of other member countries have formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, and do not in general maintain restrictions on current payments and transfers; most of them, however, maintain controls on invisibles in order to prevent unauthorized capital flows. Early in 1974 Italy sharply reduced the amount of domestic banknotes which could be taken out by travelers and in May tightened the supervision over certain invisible payments, as well as reducing the allocation of exchange for tourist travel. Japan also tightened its supervision of sales of exchange for travel purposes. In January 1974 Iran announced the abolition, in principle, of all existing exchange restrictions. Among other countries, standard travel allocations were increased in Algeria, Barbados, Chile, Ireland, and Nigeria, and those for business travel in Mauritania, South Africa, and Zambia; in response to a rapidly deteriorating balance of payments Chile reduced these allocations in January 1975. Bangladesh im- posed a 30 per cent tax on travel exchange for business and other specified purposes, and ceased to provide foreign currency for other forms of travel. Colombia and El Salvador introduced or increased deposit requirements on the sale of exchange for travel. In January 1974 Guyana reduced the standard allocation for tourist travel and shortly thereafter suspended it indefinitely. Pakistan restricted the allowance for tourist travel but raised the allocation for business travel. Other countries which restricted allocations or tightened controls on exchange for travel included Cyprus, Fiji, Israel, Tanzania, and Turkey. The Malagasy Republic terminated the de facto prohibition on the transfer of dividends, commencing with amounts accruing in its fiscal year 1973; provision was made for the transfer, in stages, of accrued dividends relating to earlier years. Nigeria announced in April 1974 that all arrears of in- vestment income accruing to nonresidents were to be cleared in the fiscal year 1974/75, and the transfer of new profits and dividends could be effected without delay. In addition, remittances of technical and management fees and royalties were permitted when they related to the import of technology. On the other hand, Rwanda suspended the transfer of rents accruing to nonresidents, Tanzania reimposed a re- striction on dividend payments, Uruguay allowed remittances of profits and dividends (previously limited to 10 per cent of capital per annum) to be made freely, but imposed a tax on remittances in excess of 20 per cent of capital, and Zambia extended for a fur ther year the restrictions on remittances of profits, dividends, and rents. Several countries changed the regulations govern- ing the import and export of domestic currency by travelers. In Mauritania the import and export of domestic notes and coins (and the holding by residents of any means of payment in foreign currencies) without the prior authorization of the Central Bank were both prohibited. Existing limita- tions of this nature were also intensified in Cyprus, 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE RESTR ICT IONS Ghana, I t a ly, and Po r tuga l, but they were eased in Au s t ra l ia and Jo rd an. 2. Mu l t ip le Cu r rency Practices In March 1974 the dual exchange ma rke ts in France, the Opera t ions Account coun tr ies4 of the French F ranc A rea, and I ta ly were un i f ied. Costa Rica u n i f i ed its dual exchange m a rk et in April 1974 when it established a new par va lue. Ecuador fo rma l ly un i f i ed i ts dual exchange m a rk e t, a f t er the U.S. do l lar ra tes in bo th m a rk e ts had rema ined iden t ical for a cons iderab le period. In the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic, a un i t a ry exchange ra te has been applied since 1973, but the regu la t ions p rov id ing for a dual exchange m a r k et have not yet been forma l ly revoked. In Janua ry 1974, Iran in t roduced a dual exchange m a r k et by c rea t ing a "noncommercial f ree ma rke t" w i th a f lu c tu a t ing exchange ra te and abolished all o ther res tr ic t ions on cu r rent and capital p aym en t s; the ra tes in the two m a r k e ts have been v i r tua l ly iden t ica l. The basic s t ruc tu re of the dual exchange ma rke ts in A rgen t ina, Be lg ium-Luxembourg, Chile, Pa raguay, Pe ru, and U ruguay was ma in ta ined, a l- though in each there were some mod i f ica t ions in exchange ra tes or regu la t ions gove rn ing access. In Egyp t's dual exchange m a r k e t, the role of the secondary m a r k et was expanded. W i th e f f e ct f rom Feb rua ry 28, 1974, Tu rkey abolished the tax of 50 per cent on foreign exchange purchased for most travel purposes. In J u ly 1974, Bu rma d iscon t inued the var iab le commission applied to the selling rate for sterling since June 1972. The C e n t r al A f r i c an Repub l ic in November 1974 abol- ished the tax on exchange ope ra t ions of 2 /4 per cent levied on most exchange transac t ions w i th, and paymen ts to, coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area. Also in Novembe r, N icaragua e l im ina ted the s tamp tax of l/i of 1 per cent on sales of fore ign exchange by commercial banks to the pub l ic, thus u n i f y i ng the exchange r a te s t r u c t u r e. Indones ia te rm ina ted i ts only rema in ing mu l t ip le cu r r en cy practice by replacing the 10 per cent exchange tax on proceeds f rom most exports with an export tax of 10 per cent on the f.o.b. value of such expor ts. In Janua ry 1974, Argentina established a tem- po ra ry scheme whereby foreign exchange for the payment for spec if ied impo r ts could be bought at the 4 Coun t r ies whose in s t i tu tes of issue ma in ta in an Opera- tions Account with the French T rea su ry; they are Cameroon, Central African Repub l ic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 8 commerc ial ra te, sub ject to special charges to be paid to the T rea su ry; the scheme was gradually phased out and was e l im ina ted by Jun e. During the year a n um b er of impo r ts were added to the list of goods eligible for payment at the mixed ra te of 26 per cent commercial and 74 per cent f inanc ial r a t e, while others were removed f rom it. In May, a foreign exchange tax was imposed on rem i t ted p r o f i ts of existing companies choosing to rema in subject to the old regu la t ions r a th er than the new fore ign invest- m ent law. In J anu a ry 1975, A rgen t ina doub led the exchange tax on the sale of exchange for t ravel purposes, and on March 3 the fixed exchange ra tes in bo th exchange ma rke t s, as well as the mixing ra te applicable to specified comme rc ial transac t ions, were dep rec ia ted sharply. Brazil con t inu ed to follow a flexible exchange r a te policy by dep rec ia t ing the c ruze i ro at shor t, i r regu lar intervals. Between Decem- ber 1973 and December 1974 the c ruze i ro was dep rec ia ted on 11 occasions for a to tal dep rec ia t ion in terms of the U.S. dollar of 16.4 per cen t. Exchange taxes (con t r ibu t ion quo tas) were imposed on p ro- ceeds of expo r ts of hides and skins of wild an ima ls and of qu a r tz chips. Con t r ibu t ion quo tas con t inu ed to be applied to export proceeds from green coffee and cocoa and de r iva t ive p roduc ts but those on proceeds f rom expo r ts of beef were abolished in Ma rch 1974. A f ter having simplified substantially its exchange r a te s t r u c t u re la te in 1973, Chile dep rec ia ted its exchange ra tes in te rms of the U.S. do l lar f r e q u e n t ly du r ing 1974. The exchange ra tes in the b roke rs' and bank ing marke ts were changed repea ted ly and the spread be tween them was cons iderab ly reduced. The exchange r a te for copper receipts was also depre- c ia ted several t imes; in Augu st 1974 this ra te was un if ied with the exchange ra te in the banking ma rke t. Fu r th er s imp l if ica t ion of the exchange ra te s t ruc tu re occu r red in Ma rch 1975. Colombia reduced the ra tes of the tax c red it certificates for some ag r icu l tu ra l, m a n u f a c t u r e d, and m ine ral p r o d u c ts f rom levels of 13 per cent and 15 per cent to 0.1 per cent and 5 per cent of export proceeds. In Ma rch 1974, an advance deposit requ i re- ment for travel exchange was re in troduced when res iden ts were requ i red to make an advance deposit at the t ime of app l ica t ion for exchange licenses for overseas t rave l; it was raised in September. Colombia, in accordance with its existing policy, continued to deprec ia te its pr inc ipal exchange ra te in terms of the U.S. dollar in 1974. Uruguay completed the re- opening of access to the financial ma rket in Septem- ber 1974 and removed the identification requirement for purchases and sales in that ma rke t. Exchange rates ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN D E V E L O PM E N TS IN R E S TR IC T IVE PRACT ICES in the financial market would be determined by supply and demand, w i th no in te rven t ion by the mone tary au tho r i ty. In June 1974, Bangladesh ex tended the p rem ium payments scheme for personal inwa rd rem i t tances in convertible currencies for ano ther yea r; add i t ional types of foreign exchange receipts were brought under the scheme in August 1974. Egypt revised the regulations pe r ta in ing to the opera t ion of the para l lel market in June 1974. Exchange rates in the parallel ma rket were to be de te rm ined by a comm i t tee established by the Gove rnmen t. In add i t ion to com- mercial banks, those p e rm i t t ed to opera te in the parallel m a rk et inc luded tou r ist compan ies, hotels, and shops selling goods for foreign cu r r en cy, and banks were pe rm i t ted to deal among themselves in foreign cu r rency eligible for the para l lel ma rke t. The new regu la t ions specified the t ran sac t ions eligible to be effected in the parallel marke t. On the supply side, there was a cons iderab le increase in eligible f u n ds through the inclusion of receipts from a number of cu r rent invisibles, and 50 per cent of the rece ip ts from expor ts of cement in excess of annu al export targe ts. Most p aym en ts for c u r r e nt inv is ib les have to be se t t led in the pa ra l lel m a r k e t. In the Khmer Repub l ic the exchange r a te s t r u c t u re was mod i f i ed as a re su lt of va r ious measu res taken in response to the m i l i t a ry eme rgency. The du al ex- change m a r k et in Laos was p rac t ica l ly t e rm in a t ed by a f u r t h er reduc t ion in t ransac t ions eligible for the official ma rke t. Sri Lanka, in September 1974, exempted impor ts of tallow, palm oil, and m i l l ing copra from the requ i rement to su r r end er Foreign Exchange En t i t lement Cer t if ica tes, thus p e rm i t t ing paymen ts for such impo r ts to be e f f e c t ed at the official exchange ra te ra ther than at the d i f f e r ent e f fec t ive exchange ra tes re su l t ing f rom t ransac t ions in cer t if ica tes. This measure was reve rsed, howeve r, in Janua ry 1975. In Janua ry 1974 the regu la t ions a f f e c t ing the exchange ma rket a r rangemen ts in the BLEU were amended to enable ou tward paymen ts in respect of investment earnings again to be made through e i ther the official or the free exchange m a rk et at the op t ion of the rem i t te r. The Un i ted Kingdom in t rodu c ed measures in March 1974 which a f fec ted access to the investment currency m a rk et by U.K. res iden ts (see section on "Measures a f f e c t ing cap i ta l ," below). During the year, the inves tment c u r r e n cy p r em ium rose considerably. Ire land also took measures with respect to the use of investment cu r rency, both in March 1974 and Janua ry 1975. 3. Import Deposits, Import Surcharges, and Measures to Stimulate Exports a. Advance Import Deposits During the period under review, requ iremen ts for advance import deposits were eased in several coun- tries, but the number of countries that introduced new, or intensified existing, advance deposit require- men ts on imports appears to have been greater than in recent years. Chile suspended the 10,000 per cent advance import deposit requ irement on most imports in the pe rm i t ted list, while Viet-Nam abolished advance deposit requ iremen ts on imports under the Commerc ial Impo rt Program f inanced by U.S. aid. A number of other countries eased the requirements for impo rt deposits by lowering the rates applied or by narrowing their scope. In March 1974, Iran reduced deposit requ i remen ts for some goods f rom 100 per cent or 40 per cent to 15 per cen t, and in Ju ly it exemp ted most food items f rom advance deposit r equ i r em ent and reduced the ra te for all rema in ing goods to 15 per cen t. In the Philippines, a number of essential import commod i t ies were exemp ted f rom the 50 per cent advance impo rt deposit requ i remen t, while the r a te was reduced to 25 per cent on other items. Argen t ina exempted certain commodities from advance deposit r equ i r em en t s, and the Sudan reduced the ra te of deposit from 5 per cent to 2 per cen t. The Repub l ic of Ch ina reduced the advance s e t t l em ent requ i remen ts on impo r ts. In Ma rch 1974, Greece, wh ich has long used a range of advance deposit requ i remen t s, prescribed a higher deposit of 200 per cent for passenger au tomob i les and ce r ta in " luxu ry items"; it also increased the deposit and the re ten t ion period for a numb er of other goods, but for m a ny th is measu re was revoked in Sep tembe r. The deposit requ i rement for the rema in ing items, how- eve r, was ex tended u n t il J u ne 30, 1975. In Ma rch 1975, F in l and in t rodu c ed an impo rt deposit system cover ing some 63 per cent of the to tal va lue of impo r t s. The deposits va ry be tween 5 and 30 per cent of the impo rt price of the goods and are for a per iod of six mon th s. Is rael abolished the advance deposit requ i rement on imports on Janua ry 1, 1974, but r e in t rodu c ed it in Ma rch 1974 at the ra te of 20 per cent of the value of the imports subject to customs du t ies of 35 per cent ( in c lud ing impo rt surcharge) or over. The coverage of the deposit r equ i r em ent was reduced la ter in the yea r. Ice land took measures in 1974 u n d er which impo r te rs were requ i red to make an advance deposit equ iv a l ent to 25 per cent of the va lue of impo r ts for 90 days; basic food s tu f fs and raw ma te r ia ls were exemp ted. In I ta ly, most impo r ts o ther than raw ma te r ia ls and cap i tal goods became 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution R E PO RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S TR IC T IONS sub ject to a 50 per cent impo rt deposit r e q u i r em e nt in May 1974, w i th the am o u n ts depos i ted to be he ld for 180 days; d u r i ng the second half of 1974, the deposit r e q u i r em e nt was e l im i n a t ed for impo r ts of beef and o ther a g r i c u l t u r al p r o d u c t s; the sys tem of advance depos i ts was t e rm i n a t ed as of M a r ch 24, 1975. In A u g u st Lebanon i n t r o d u c ed a 15 per c e nt advance impo rt depos it r e q u i r em e nt in fo re ign ex- change for l e t t e rs of c r e d it for impo r t s. Co lomb ia raised the p r e p a ym e nt depos it r a te for im p o r ts f rom 35 per cent to 40 per c e n t, and l a t er app l ied a p r e p a ym e nt depos it of 100 per cent to im p o r ts f i n a n c ed by fo re ign bo r row ing. El Sa lvador imposed an advance deposit r e q u i r em e nt of 100 per cent on impo r ts of specified i tem s, i n c l u d i ng au tomob i l e s, f u r n i t u r e, and app l iances, and in Augu st 1974, Yugos lav ia es tab l ished impo rt depos it r e q u i r em e n ts on spec i f ied commod i t ies at ra tes of 30 per c ent and 50 per c e n t; in N o v em b er and Decembe r, c e r t a in of these goods we re exemp ted f rom the depos it r e q u i r em e n t. b. Import Surcharges I s rael ex t end ed the tempo ra ry impo rt su r ch a rge for a f u r t h er y e ar to A p r il 1, 1975, and in J u ly increased the rate f rom 25 per cent to 35 per cent b u t, in con jun c t ion w i th the d e v a l u a t i on of the I s r a el pound in N o v em b er 1974, the su r ch a rge was r edu c ed to 15 per cent and the n um b er of i tems sub j e ct to the su rcha rge was inc rea sed. J o r d an e x em p t ed im p o r ts of foods tu f fs and of paper and raw ma te r ia ls used in the p ap er i n d u s t ry f rom the su rcha rge a p p l i c a b le to goods not im p o r t ed th rough the po rt of A q a b a. In O c tob e r, U r u g u ay s u b s t a n t i a l ly low e r ed im p o rt su r ch a rg e s, reduc ing the m a x im um ra te in e f f e ct f rom 300 per cent to 200 per cent ad va lorem. On April 1, 1974, N ige r ia abo l ished the 5 per cent "na t ional recon- s t ruc t ion" surcharge on impo r t s. P ak i s t an ab so rb ed the "flood re l ief surcharge" i n to the cus toms t a r i ff and in J a n u a ry 1975 i n t r o d u c ed a new su r ch a rg e, a lso app l icab le to v i r t u a l ly all impo r t s. Yugos lav ia, on J a n u a ry 1, 1974 r edu c ed the im p o rt su rcha rges on c rude p e t r o l e um and gas o il to 2 per cent and in A p r il the same r e d u c t i on was a p p l i ed to a d d i t i o n al ag r icu l- t u r al and food p rodu c t s. c. Export Incentives and Export Taxes Du r ing the pe r iod u n d er rev iew m a ny c o u n t r i es expanded th e ir schemes for p r om o t i ng expo r ts. These o f ten invo lve ass is tance to expo r t e rs th rough special c red it fac i l i t ies, exchange r isk gu a r an t e e s, and o th er measu res to in f lu en ce expo rt c r e d it te rm s. A u s t r a l ia in t roduced a new incen t ive scheme for expo r ts, to 10 opera te for a pe r iod of five yea r s, and ea r ly in 1975 e s tab l i shed fac i l i t ies to f inance m e d i um - t e rm and long- term expo rt sales of cap i tal goods. D enm a rk es tab l ished a new expo rt c red it i n s t i t u t i on and announced imp roved re f inanc ing for expo rt c red i ts of more than two yea r s. F in land issued new domes t ic c red it regu la t ion s, a imed at s t r eng th en ing the com- p e t i t iv en e ss of new expo rt indu s t r i es and exp and ed expo rt f inanc ing fac i l i t ies. In F rance, the Compagn ie F ranca ise d 'Assu rance pour le Comme rce E x t e r i e ur (COFACE) e x t e n d ed the coun t ry coverage on sho r t- t e rm comme rc ial r isks on expo r ts and ra ised the ce i l ing on covered r isks by F 9 b i l l ion. In a d d i t i o n, to assist m ed ium - s i z ed expo rt f i rms wh ich might not have access to the i n t e r n a t i o n al c ap i t al m a r k e t s, the a u t h o r i t i es a l lowed a con s id e r ab ly h igher r a te of g row th of sho r t - t e rm expo rt c red i ts th an of to tal bank c red i t. The N e th e r l and s, New Z e a l a n d, and N o rw ay also exp and ed expo rt f i n a n c i ng fac i l i t ie s. In December 1974, I t a ly ex emp t ed bank c r ed i ts for the financing of expo r ts f rom the ceiling imposed on the expan s ion of b ank c r e d it d u r i ng the y e ar end ed M a r ch 1975 and p rov id ed for p r i o r i ty t r e a tm e nt for expo rt bus iness in the g r a n t i ng of r e f i n a n c i ng f a c i l i t i e s. Bang lade sh e x t e n d ed the d u r a t i on of i ts cash sub s idy scheme for e x p o r ts and ra i sed the r a te of sub s idy for c e r t a in e x p o rt commod i t i e s. Chile w i t h- d r ew tax r e f u n ds on m i n or e x p o r ts and Co lomb ia r e d u c ed the v a l ue of e x p o rt sub s id i es for a g r i c u l t u r al and m a n u f a c t u r ed p r o d u c ts u n d er the T ax C r e d it C e r t i f i c a t es (CAT) scheme. I s rael increased tax re- ba tes for expo r t e rs in J u ly 1974 and lowe red th em in N o v em b e r; they were ra ised again in J a n u a ry 1975. The Bank of J am a i ca i n t r o d u c ed an expo rt c red it f in an c ing scheme u n d er wh i ch expo r t e rs cou ld o b t a in c r e d it for th r ee m o n t hs at a p r e f e r e n t i al r a te of i n t e r e s t. K e n ya i n t r o d u c ed an expo rt sub s idy scheme u n d er wh ich e x p o r t e rs are e l ig ib le for a 10 per cent p a ym e nt on the f .o .b. v a l ue of se lec ted m a n u f a c t u r ed e x p o r ts to c o u n t r i es o t h er t h an Tanzan ia and Ug and a. In V e n e z u e l a, two expo rt in c en t ive schemes for n o n t r a d i t i o n al expo r t s, wh ich had been c r e a t ed in 1973, became op e r a t ion al in 1974; one prov ides for a f u nd to g r a nt c r ed it to expo r te r s, the o ther involves n ego t i ab le tax c r e d it ce r t i f ica te s. Ma lay s ia, S ri Lanka, and U r u g u ay p ro v i d ed add i t ion al tax incen t ives for expo r t e r s. A n um b er of coun t r ies in t rodu c ed or increased taxes on expo rt commod i t ies. These inc luded Af- gh an i s t an, Cos ta R i c a, G u a t em a l a, G u y a n a, Hondu ra s, I n d i a, Jo rd an, Ma lay s ia, Panama, and Peru. Ind ia and Pak i s tan reduced or suspended expo rt du t ies on certain commod i t ies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELO PMENTS IN RESTR ICT IVE PRACTICES 4. Bilateral Payments Arrangements Considerable progress was made during the period under review in reducing the number of bilateral payments arrangements maintained by Fund mem- bers both among themselves and with nonmember countries. There was a substantial move toward the elimination of such arrangements by certain develop- ing countries. Thus, Tunisia terminated its payments agreements with two member countries (Egypt and Romania) and seven nonmember countries (Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R.); Morocco abolished four agreements with nonmembers (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, and Poland); the Syrian Arab Republic elimi- nated its arrangements with two members (Egypt and Romania) and two nonmembers (Hungary and Poland); Turkey terminated its payments agreements with four nonmembers (Bulgaria, the People's Re- public of China, Hungary, and Poland); and Singapore those with two nonmembers (Poland and the U.S.S.R.). Another six Fund members placed settle- ments with the German Democratic Republic on a convertible currency basis (Austria, Denmark, Norway, Spain, Sweden, and Tunisia), but Pakistan entered into a new bilateral payments arrangement with that country. Other bilateral payments agreements between member countries that were terminated included those between Bangladesh and India, Iraq and Yugo- slavia, the Libyan Arab Republic and Romania, and Romania and Sri Lanka. Some of the remaining agreements maintained by Fund members are in fact inoperative; the number of operative bilateral pay- ments arrangements between members now stands at about 50. The number of Fund members' payments agreements with nonmembers has been reduced to some 180. 5. Measures Affecting Capital As noted in the Introduction, the United States terminated its controls on capital outflows in January 1974. Toward the end of 1973 the sharp turnaround in the balance of payments of many of the developed countries was accompanied by a reversal of policies to control capital movements. Commencing in 1971, the industrial countries of Europe and Japan had pro- gressively extended the network of controls on inflows of capital, directed especially at short-term inflows, as a means of reducing pressure on the balance of payments and in support of domestic monetary and fiscal policies. By February 1974 most of these countries had partially dismantled the complex system of controls over inflows applied in part through the banking system, through restrictions on foreign borrowings by domestic nonbanks, and through limitations on the acquisition by non- residents of domestic securities. During the period under review most of the industrial countries either avoided the use of new controls on inflows or took steps to facilitate them, particularly in the form of medium-term or long-term borrowing, while a few tightened controls on out- flows. Among other countries, there was a con- tinuation of the trend observed in previous reports in the use of measures to control and to reduce foreign ownership of domestic enterprises; several also em- ployed capital controls to influence capital flows through the banking system, and to affect directly portfolio and direct investment, payments terms on foreign trade, and personal capital transfers. Some of the more developed primary producing countries and some of the developing countries eased the conditions for foreign borrowing by bank and nonbank residents or tightened the controls over domestic lending to nonresidents. The Euro-currency markets continued to expand during 1974, especially in the first half of the year when there was a strong demand for credit stemming primarily from industrial countries with oil-related balance of payments difficulties, accompanied on the supply side by sizable increases in Euro-deposits by the oil exporting countries. Some of the developing countries also received substantial Euro-credits during this period. The growth of the Euro-credit market slackened markedly (and the currency deposit market probably showed a slight net fall) in the second half of 1974 as a result in part of uncertainties and a setback to confidence in the international banking system following the announcement of bank failures in July and August. More recently, the growth of lending in the Euro-currency market has resumed but the banks continue to be cautious and now prefer project and export financing to general purpose or balance of payments loans. There has also been a marked reduction in the share of loans with matu- rities above five years. In addition, the demand for funds was partially satisfied through other channels, such as government-to-government loans, or loans through international institutions. The amount of Euro-bonds issued was much reduced during 1974, although toward the end of the year there was a modest revival as short-term interest rates fell. Direct and indirect controls on banks, which had been applied extensively in industrial countries as a means of limiting capital inflows through the domestic banking system, were suspended or relaxed 11 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in many countries in January and February 1974. Limitations on banks' foreign positions and on their ability to accept foreign-owned deposits were pro- gressively modified to ease restraints on banks' access to foreign funds. Later in the year, stricter reporting requirements on banks' foreign assets and liabilities, both spot and forward, were imposed in a number of countries to increase official surveillance of banks' foreign operations. Toward the end of 1974 increased concern began to be shown over the possible renewal of inflows in certain countries that early in the year had removed certain barriers to inflows. This was shown most clearly in Switzerland, which, beginning in November and carrying on into the new year, reversed a number of relaxation measures. In the BLEU, a ceiling was imposed in J anu a ry 1974 on the net foreign asset position of banks (i.e., on their net credit spot positions in foreign currencies on the official market), and banks could accept time or notice deposits on Convertible Accoun ts provided the maturity did not exceed one yea r. The ma tur i ty requirement was removed in August 1974. In Febru- ary 1974, the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange In s t i tu te increased (after two reductions) the limit imposed on the net debtor positions of Belgian and Luxembourg banks on Convertible Accoun ts and in foreign cur- rency on the official ma rke t. The Na t ional Bank of Denmark in Janua ry 1974 eased the rules governing demand and time deposits in convertible krone accounts held by spec if ied f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions; in August the ceiling on the net negative "commercial" foreign position of authorized fore ign exchange dealers was increased from Dkr 250 million to Dkr 400 million. In I ta ly, on the other hand, concern with the growth of banks' short-term foreign in- debtedness resulted in the imposition, in Ju ly 1974, of a ceiling on banks' net ex ternal debit positions, i.e., the spot and fo rwa rd position in relation to nonresidents in foreign and domestic currencies. In September 1974, Tu rkey established m in imum and max imum limits on the foreign currency positions of the larger authorized banks. During the period und er review, concern with the ex tent of exposure assumed by banks in their foreign exchange dealings led the authorities in several European countries, and in the Un i ted S ta tes, to tighten their surveillance over banks' foreign ex- change operations, particularly forward transactions, by imposing more stringent repor t ing requ iremen ts. In add i t ion, the Federal Republic of Ge rmany limited banks' net exchange positions to a specified propor- tion of pledged capital resources. In Spain, limits were placed on Euro-currency deposits with Spanish banks, and on Euro-currency loans gran ted by these 12 banks. The Bank of England sought formal ac- know ledgment from consortium banks in London that u l t ima te responsibility for their affairs lies with their shareholder banks; the Bank also approached London subsidiaries of foreign pa rent banks for similar assurances. In 1974 and early 1975 the authorities in many Eu ropean countries relaxed or abolished selective reserve requ i remen ts against banks' external liabilities and l i f ted restrictions on in terest paymen ts on non- resident deposits. With e f fect from March 1, 1974 the gentlemen's agreement of August 18, 1971 be tween the Na t ional Bank of Aus t r ia and the credit insti- tu t ions which called, inter alia, for interest free deposits with the Na t ional Bank equal to 75 per cent of any increase in banks' schilling liabilities to nonres iden ts, was relaxed by changing the base date for the calculation of the deposit requ i rement f rom August 13 ,1971 to December 31 ,1973. On J anu a ry 1, 1975 the requ irement was suspended. The negative interest charge levied by banks in Belgium and Luxembou rg on accruals to Convertible Accounts was suspended w i th e f fect from Janua ry 1, 1974; in the same month the prohibition of interest payments on such balances was revoked. In F rance, the remaining reserve requ i remen ts against non res iden t -owned franc deposits were rescinded in Janua ry 1974. The Federal Repub l ic of Germany in Janua ry 1974 abolished the 60 per cent reserve requ i rement on the increase in banks' deposit liabilities to nonresidents, and lowered the average reserve requirements against such liabil- ities. Fu r ther reductions in the average reserve re- qu iremen ts took place in the course of that year. However, the requ i rement of approval by the Bundes- bank for the payment of interest on nonres ident deposits remained in e f fec t. I re land re ta ined the requ irement that banks must deposit with the Central Bank at least 50 per cent of net capital inflows af ter Janua ry 16, 1973 but from June 1974, and subject to pr ior consu l ta t ion w i th the Cen tral Bank, the require- ment could be waived for capital inflows that assist in the financing of ma jor indus t r ial projects. In Switzer- land, reserve requ i remen ts on banks' foreign liabilities were lowered in stages during most of 1974, reaching a low po int in October, while the prohibition of in terest paymen ts on most non res ident deposits received a f ter Ju ly 31, 1971 was abolished in October 1974. However, toward the end of the year Switzer- land again tightened controls on capital inflows through the bank ing system. In Novembe r, it was announced that any increase in Swiss f ranc deposits by nonres iden ts above Sw F 50,000 since October 31, 1974 would be subject to add i t ional m in imum reserve requ iremen ts of 24 per cent for demand deposits and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES 18 per cent for time deposits. A prohibition of interest payments on nonresident Swiss franc deposits was introduced with respect to funds received after October 31, 1974, and such increases in deposits were then made subject to a negative interest charge of 3 per cent a quarter. In January 1975, all nonresident Swiss franc deposits in excess of Sw F 50,000 became ineligible for interest upon the expiration of any contractual commitments, regardless of the date of deposit, and the negative interest charge on deposits made a f ter October 31 was increased to 10 per cent a quarter. The easing of controls over inflows of capital through the banking system was accompanied in some cases by measures to relax controls on, and in some cases provide stimulus to, inflows through nonbanks, including public sector borrowing abroad. In January 1974, agencies and enterprises in France were permitted to borrow at medium term and long term in foreign markets. The exemption from ap- proval for financial foreign currency credits taken up abroad by nonbank residents was raised from a total indebtedness per borrower of F 2 million to F 10 million, provided each loan drawing and the cor- responding repayment were at least one year apart. In addition, the regulations governing foreign direct investment in France, and its liquidation, were relaxed slightly in August 1974. Early in 1974 the Federal Republic of Germany adopted a series of measures designed to reduce selectively the existing barriers to the entry of capital through nonbanks. Short-term import financing no longer required ap- proval and was exempted from the cash deposit requirement (Bardepof). Borrowing for other specified purposes, e.g., to finance the purchase of real estate abroad, also became exempt from the cash deposit. In February 1974, Bundesbank approval requirements were lifted for all borrowings abroad by residents, the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic securities (except domestic money market paper and fixed-interest securities maturing in less than four years), and inward direct investment. In February 1974 the cash deposit requirement applicable to most nonbank borrowing from nonresidents was reduced from 50 per cent to 20 per cent and in September it was abolished. In Denmark the taking up of financial loans abroad was made subject to more stringent conditions in January 1974, but toward the end of the year the ceiling on individual loans was raised from DKr 5 million to DKr 20 million, and condi- tions for raising such loans were eased somewhat. During the year the quota for sales to nonresidents of listed Danish krone bonds was increased and in December 1974 such sales were fully liberalized. In August 1974 Sweden permitted borrowing abroad by residents to finance economic activity in Sweden, on maturities of normally at least five years, and without restrictions as to the use of proceeds. In Austria, restrictions on capital inflows introduced in Novem- ber 1972, when Austria suspended the liberalization of inward capital movements, continued in force. However, adaptations were announced in July 1974 with a view to easing some of the restrictions. These included a liberalization of inward direct investment in the "secondary sector" and of specified commer- cial credits up to five years granted by nonresidents to residents. From October 1974 Spain no longer required prior authorization for foreign majority investments in certain sectors. Several of the European countries also adopted measures to discourage capital outflows or ensure foreign financing of such flows. In June 1974, Sweden to an increasing extent required foreign financing of at least five years' maturity for outward direct investment. Changes in the exchange control regulations in the United Kingdom in March 1974 provided for, inter alia, a tightening of the restrictions on the use of official exchange for the financing of direct investments in the EEC and the Overseas Sterling Area. Ireland also tightened requirements for the financing of direct investments in the Overseas Sterling Area but on January 1, 1975 allowed the use of official exchange for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EEC member coun- tries. In February 1974, Switzerland reduced the permissible volume of new issues of Swiss franc bonds by nonresidents, and of placements of medium-term Swiss franc notes by nonresidents; in May 1974, such issues and placings were temporarily prohibited, but these measures were withdrawn in August 1974, when ceilings were again applied. In November 1974, the Swiss authorities reintroduced with immediate effect the regulation suspended in February 1974, which had stipulated that all capital exports denomi- nated in Swiss francs and licensed by the National Bank must, upon approval, be converted into foreign currency at Swiss banks (subsequently only at the National Bank). Throughout the period, Italy re- tained the deposit requirement of 50 per cent on most outward transfers of capital and fewer exemp- tions were granted than in 1973. Among the capital control measures taken in France in January 1974, forward cover facilities for outgoing payments again were limited to imports and such cover was normally restricted to three months; export credit was also generally limited to six months after the arrival of goods at their destination unless special authorization was obtained. In addition, all other lending of francs 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS to nonresidents, whether by banks or nonbanks, was made subject to authorization, which was not nor- mally gran ted while previously such lending for ma tur i t ies up to two years was unres tr ic ted. In Augus t, however, the regulations governing ou tward direct inves tment were relaxed slightly. With the elimination in March 1974 of the dual exchange ma rke ts in France and I ta ly, and the term ina t ion by the Ne the r lands in Feb rua ry 1974 of the O-guilder mechanism for nonres iden ts' purchases of listed guilder bonds, the use of separate exchange ma rke ts for capital flows by Eu ropean countries is now confined to Belgium-Luxembourg, I re land, and the United Kingdom. During 1974, Japan took a number of measures designed to s t imu la te inf lows of capital and to limit long-term ou tf lows. Beginning in November 1973, the yen conversion ceilings were raised progressively for p repaymen ts to Japanese exporters, and add i t ional amoun ts were approved au toma t ica l ly provided they were received within six mon ths of sh ipmen t. Key industries were allowed g rea ter access to foreign bank loans and overseas bond ma rke ts to f inance their operations in J ap an; bond issues abroad were facil- itated by the removal in April 1974 of the with- ho ld ing tax on in terest paymen ts on such securities. Restrictions on nonres iden ts' po r t fo l io inves tmen ts in Japan were relaxed considerably in August 1974. A series of measures to limit ou tf lows took e f f e ct in Janua ry 1974. Add i t ional measures to encourage capital inflows took e f fect in August and Sep tember 1974, inc lud ing subs tan t ial increases in the yen conversion quotas of foreign banks in Japan, the elimination of the 10 per cent reserve ra t io on free yen deposits of nonresidents, and the w i thd rawal of controls on in terest payable on residents' and non- residents' foreign currency deposits w i th Japanese banks. The acquisition by res iden ts of all fore ign shor t- term securities was made sub ject to approva l. In add i t ion, it was announced that resources u n d er the Foreign Currency Lending Program of September 1972 for the financing of Japanese direct inves tment abroad wou ld not be available in such sectors as services or real es ta te, and that the percentage of loans in foreign currency wou ld be reduced to 50 per cent. Also, in Janua ry 1974, resident-owned foreign currency deposits were made subject to a ceiling, while securities dealers were requ i red to dispose of their foreign exchange proceeds, by conversion in to yen or re inves tment in securities, within seven busi- ness days of each transac t ion. Later in the yea r, the authorities increasingly pe rm i t ted "out-in" borrow ing in add i t ion to the "out-out" borrow ing resumed around Janua ry 1974. 14 With e f fect from January 29, 1974 the United States terminated the Foreign Direct Investment Program and the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program, and reduced the Interest Equalization Tax to zero, thereby eliminating the system of controls over capital outflows. (Following the dismantling of the U.S. controls, Canada revoked the balance of payments guidelines which had been issued primarily in order to obtain and safeguard that country's exemption from the U.S. capital controls.) Certain other U.S. regulations were amended to take account of the termination of controls on capital outflows. These included an amendment to Regulation M to eliminate the Euro-dollar reserve requirements on loans by a foreign branch of one member bank to the domestic o f f ice of another member bank when the borrowing bank maintained reserves against the bor- rowing und er Regulation D, and the termination of the withholding tax exemption for offshore financing subsidiaries of U.S. companies with respect to interest and dividend paymen ts to non-U.S. residents for f inanc ing in the form of securities arranged af ter June 30, 1974. Dur ing 1974 var ious reporting requirements were in troduced on international aspects of the activities and ownership of U.S. banks and nonbank firms in the Un i ted States. The use of cap i tal controls in countries other than those men t ioned above in many cases continued to be directed, in add i t ion to restricting outflows of res iden t-owned capital, toward limiting foreign ownership of domestic enterprises and resources. Several adop ted measures facilitating access by resi- den ts to in te rna t ional capital markets. Australia and Brazil bo th suspended the manda to ry deposit require- men ts on cer ta in forms of foreign borrowing and eased o ther restrictions on foreign currency loans. O ther coun t r ies relaxing res tra in ts against foreign borrow ing inc luded the Repub l ic of China, South A f r ica, the Syrian A rab Republic, and Tu rkey, but such borrow ing was brought under closer supervision in Ecuado r, Fiji, Indones ia, and the Philippines. A deposit requ i rement was subsequently removed in the last men t ioned coun t ry. Measures to control the degree of foreign ownership inc luded the in troduc- tion of registration requ iremen ts or the screening of direct investments. Fiji, India, Malaysia, Peru, U rugu ay, and Venezue la were among the countries which in t roduced or widened the application of such measures. Direct restrictions, generally aimed at l im i t ing the ex tent of foreign ownership and control of domestic enterprises or domestic real estate, were in t roduced in A fghan is tan, Indonesia, Ma l ta, and South A f r ica, and add i t ional investment screening ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES procedures were introduced in Australia. In addition, the partial or total nationalization of foreign-owned interests in the petroleum sector took place in a number of countries, including Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Iraq, Kuwait, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Trinidad and Tobago, and Zaire. A similar trend was notice- able with respect to phosphates and bauxite. During the period under review there was consider- ably greater use by the developing countries of measures affecting the foreign operations of domestic banks. Countries that made the net foreign position of banks or banks' foreign liabilities subject to new or stricter controls included Indonesia, Iran, Lebanon, the Philippines, Turkey, and Uganda. Lebanon intro- duced legislation to establish a "free banking zone," under which arrangement foreign currency deposits of nonresidents would be exempt from reserve requirements and the withholding tax on interest payments. Laos removed the ban on foreign currency deposits by residents and nonresidents, while Tunisia permitted the payment of interest, and Mexico increased the rate of interest, on such deposits. Restrictions on outflows of capital, in many cases relating to the transfer abroad of personal assets, were tightened in the Central African Republic, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Guyana, Fiji, Jamaica, and Kenya, but lifted in Iran. Nonresidents were given freer access to domestic credit in Iran, but the opposite occurred in various other countries, e.g., Kenya and New Zealand. On March 15, 1974 the United Kingdom an- nounced a modification and extension of the guaran- tee arrangements on certain official sterling reserve holdings of Sterling Area countries to cover the nine-month period from April 1, 1974. The guaran- tees, which were first introduced in 1968, were allowed to lapse on December 31, 1974. When the United Kingdom in March 1974, changed some of the exchange control regulations affecting direct investment, a change was also made with respect to portfolio investment. This terminated the preferential treatment of the sale proceeds of securities payable in Overseas Sterling Area curren- cies. During 1974, Barbados ceased to exempt capital transfers to Sterling Area countries from exchange control approval. 6. Gold During the period under review a number of countries made major changes in their laws and regulations governing the holding of and dealing in gold. Iran lifted the restrictions on authorized banks' imports and exports of gold and silver bullion, introduced a free market for gold and silver, and allowed private individuals to hold gold and silver in any form. All banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange were permitted to import gold and to sell it freely to any person in Iran. While banks were not permitted to sell gold forward, they could lend up to 50 per cent against gold or silver collateral put up by private individuals. The Central Bank reserved the right to intervene in the gold or silver market. The Philippines, where previously virtually all sales of new gold were made to the Central Bank, also created a free market for gold. It gave primary gold producers the option of either selling their refined gold produc- tion to authorized gold dealers, or holding it abroad for subsequent sale to authorized gold dealers or in the free market abroad. Gold dealers may lend pesos to producers up to 80 per cent against gold collateral and are given special rediscount facilities at the Central Bank. South Africa reduced the number of Kruger rand coins made available to the domestic market in order to increase their availability for export, and also expanded the production facilities for these coins. In April 1975, the United Kingdom restricted the import of gold coins minted after 1837 and of gold medals, medallions, etc., manufactured after 1837, while the manufac ture of the latter group of objects would not normally be permitted. The holding and buying and selling, between residents of the United Kingdom, of post-1837 gold coins and gold medals, etc., that were already in the United Kingdom remained unrestricted. The Bank of England discon- tinued its sales of gold sovereigns to residents of the Scheduled Territories (the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Gibraltar). The United States lifted the 1933 prohibition on the holding by U.S. citizens and U.S. residents of gold other than for industrial, medical, artistic, or numis- matic purposes. With effect from December 31, 1974, U.S. citizens and residents were freely permitted to buy, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad, while previously individuals were not nor- mally allowed to hold gold except in the form of numismatic coins or jewelry. In December the Federal Reserve Board announced that gold in the form of coins or bullion may not be counted as vault cash in order to satisfy reserve requirements, because gold bullion and gold coins are not legal tender in the United States. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve banks would not accept gold as collateral for an advance to a member bank. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RE PORT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS III. Regional Arrangements During 1974 the EEC pursued the negotiations that had been initiated in July 1973 with developing countries of Afr ica, the Caribbean area, and the Pacific region (ACP countries). These negotiations were conducted with a view to establishing new relations between the enlarged Commun i ty and the 46 ACP countries,5 i.e., the 22 associated member countries of the Yaounde and Arusha Agreemen ts and 24 "associable" coun tr ies, mainly members of the Commonwealth. On July 25-29, 1974 a meeting was held in Kingston, Jamaica, where the EEC agreed not to seek reverse preferences. The negotiations were concluded in Brussels on Janua ry 31, 1975, and the Convention, which will apply for f ive years, was signed in Lome, Togo, on February 28, 1975, subject to ra t i f ica t ion. Under the agreemen t, the EEC unde r- takes (1) to eliminate tariffs and quan t i ta t ive restric- tions on all industrial goods and on the vast majority of agricultural produc ts expor ted from the ACP countries and liberalize the rules of origin for ACP produc ts; (2) to provide them with indus tr ia l, tech- nical, and f inanc ial assistance; (3) to set up a f u nd designed to stabilize receipts from expor ts of specified primary commodities from the ACP coun- tries to the EEC; and (4) to guaran tee an annual quota and a minimum price for sugar imports f rom ACP countries. The agreement succeeded both the Yaounde Agreemen ts (of June 1, 1964 and July 29, 1969) and the Arusha Agreement (of September 24, 1969), which had expired on January 31, 1975. Under the Lome Convention, the EEC has unde r- taken to eliminate tar iffs and quan t i ta t ive restrictions on produc ts representing approximately 54 per cent of the ACP countries' expor ts to the EEC. In contrast to the Yaounde and Arusha Agreemen ts, under the Lome Convention the ACP countries are not required to grant the EEC's exports p re fe ren t ial t rea tment but most-favored-nation trea tmen t. In order to pro tect ACP countries' export receipts against price f luc tu- ations for primary commodities, the EEC has agreed to set up a stabilization fund on which ACP countries will be entitled to draw if their earnings from exports of primary commodities to the EEC decline by a 5 Bahamas, Barbados, Botswana, Burund i, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Upper Volta, Western Samoa, Za ire, and Zambia. 16 certain percentage, provided that these commodities account for a certain mimimum share in the ex- porting country's total export earnings. The EEC has agreed to allocate 375 million Units of Account (see below) to this f u nd for a period of five years. Financial assistance, mostly in the form of grants, is to be channeled through a newly established Euro- pean Development Fund (EDF), which is scheduled to disburse UA 3 billion over the five-year period, while an add i t ional amount of UA 390 million will be provided in the form of loans by the European Inves tment Bank. A fu r th er UA 150 million has been allotted for contingencies. Indus t r ial and technical cooperation will take the form of preinvestment and feasibility studies carried out by the EEC for projects to be financed by the EDF. Finally, the ACP sugar p roduc ing coun tr ies unde r take to supply the EEC annually with 1.4 million tons of sugar, for which a gua ran teed m im imum price will be maintained for a period of at least seven years, with a minimum price to be f ixed annua l ly. The EEC unde r took to adopt before the en try into force of the Lome Agreement a de f in i t ion of the Unit of Account for purposes of the Agreemen t. Conse- quen t ly, on March 18, 1975 the Council of the EEC approved a new Un it of Accoun t, based on a basket of EEC currenc ies; the Unit of Account is equivalent to the value of 1 SDR on June 28, 1974. With regard to t rade with developing countries other than signatories of the Lome Convention, late in 1974 the EEC adop ted a new Generalized Preferen- ces Scheme for 1975, which includes an increase in the numb er of agricultural produc ts receiving prefer- ential t rea tment and a substantial increase in the p re fe ren t ial import quotas for manu fac tu red produc ts. As men t ioned in the previous Repor t, in 1973 a general Commun i ty policy toward Med i terranean countries was formu la ted. However, the negotiations which have taken place with Algeria, Ma l ta, Morocco, Spain, and Tunisia have not yet resulted in an agreement. Nego t ia t ions with Israel were finalized on Janua ry 24, 1975 for a new agreemen t, to be signed shortly, which is broader than the previous one in that more p roduc ts will be granted p re fe ren t ial t rea tment by both parties. Following the change in government in Greece, the Commission of the EEC, on August 30, adop ted a commun ica t ion to the Council in which it put fo rwa rd proposals for the reactivation of the Associ- ation Agreement with that coun t ry. These proposals included the reactivation of the Association Council, the extension of the Agreement to the three membe rs which joined the EEC in January 1973, i.e., Den- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS mark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom, and the restoration of financial aid. On December 2, the Association Council resumed its activities. On Novem- ber 1, Greece effected the last tariff reductions and reductions in advance import deposits provided for under the Association Agreement with respect to the first phase of the association. The EEC also is in the process of reorganizing its economic relations with state trading countries. At the end of 1973, individual member states ceased to be free to negotiate bilateral agreements with such countries. Council decisions of December 1974 and March 1975 laid down on a Community basis the import arrangements to be applicable to imports from state trading countries. These arrangements included for each member state a list of import quotas for calendar year 1975. The EEC's internal developments during 1974 were dominated by increasingly divergent economic developments in the member countries, and little progress was made toward the achievement of the Economic and Monetary Union. The European com- mon margins arrangement continued to operate. Af ter the United Kingdom and Ireland withdrew from the arrangement in June 1972 and Italy followed in February 1973, France decided in Janu- ary 1974 to suspend for six months its participation in this arrangement. Its participation has remained suspended. At present, in addition to five EEC members (Belgium, Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands) Norway and Sweden participate in the arrangement. The European Monetary Cooperation Fund, which came into operation on June 1, 1973, administers for the EEC participants the financing operations which result from the common margins arrangement. In addition, the Fund is responsible for the administra- tion of the short-term monetary support scheme of the EEC, which can provide credits of up to six months. Problems arising from the increased price of oil were repeatedly discussed by the Council. By a Council decision of October 21, 1974, which was formalized on February 17, 1975, the Community as such was authorized to contract loans outside the Community, either direct with non-EEC member countries or on the financial markets; technical details were finalized on November 18. The Com- munity was authorized to float in 1975 loans totaling up to US$3 billion (in principal plus interest) for onlending to member states to help them to finance balance of payments deficits brought about by the increase in oil prices. Loans to individual countries are to be made on a case-by-case basis, while the Community as a whole bears the responsibility for the obligations incurred. As already mentioned, the United Kingdom in March 1974 introduced restrictions on the use of official exchange for direct investment in the EEC. On April 1, the United Kingdom announced that it would seek a renegotiation of its terms of member- ship in the Community. On June 4, the Foreign Secretary identified four areas where changes would be sought. On December 9-10, the Heads of Govern- ment met to examine various problems confronting the Community. In addition to reaffirming their determination to f ight inflation and maintain employ- ment, the Heads of Government adopted two deci- sions: they renounced the unanimity rule for Council decisions and they established a Regional Develop- ment Fund. The renegotiation with the U.K. Govern- ment was concluded in March 1975. The U.K. Government has expressed its intention to submit the issue of membership in the EEC to a national referendum. Trade relations of the EEC with the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) continue to be regulated by the industrial free trade agreements signed with the remaining members of EFTA after Denmark, Ireland, and the United Kingdom joined the EEC. Within EFTA, Finland concluded separate bilateral agreements with Austria, Norway, and Portu- gal to promote agricultural trade. In its meeting on May 8-9, 1974, the EFTA Council decided that the governments would do their utmost, consistent with existing agreements and rules, to avoid action in dealing with balance of payments or sectoral dif- ficulties which could be counterproductive in itself and would be prejudicial to the world trading system. The Council in its October 31-November 1 meeting, noted that the dismantling of barriers to trade provided for in the free trade agreements was progressing according to agreed timetables. In Decem- ber, meetings were held of the Joint Committees established between each EFTA country and the EEC. Tariffs were reduced on January 1, 1975 on all products covered by EFTA countries' trade agree- ments with the EEC and the European Coal and Steel Community. On the same date certain amendments to EFTA's rules of origin came into force. The eighth annual meeting of the Heads of State of the Common Organization of African and Mauri- tian States (OCAM) was held in Bangui, Central African Republic, on October 5-9, 1974. It was decided at that meeting to transfer the headquarters to Bangui. The West African Economic Community (CEAO) was established by the treaty signed on April 17,1973 by Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania,Niger, 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RE PORT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS Senegal, and Upper Volta. It entered into force on January 1, 1974. The purpose of the Commun i ty, which is replacing the West Afr ican Customs Union (UDEAO), is to promote greater cooperation in the fields of trade and agricultural and industrial policy among the member countries. Two projects are presently being elaborated within the Commun i ty, relating to a regional cooperation tax and a com- munity development fund. The new monetary arrangements of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion, including a new charter of the Banque Centrale des E ta ts de FA f r ique de FOuest (BCEAO) and the re la ted new cooperation agreement between France and the members of the Union, entered into force on October 11, 1974. At their October 11-12 meeting in Lome, the Heads of State of the countries of the West African Mone tary Union decided to t rans fer the headquar ters of the BCEAO from Paris to Dakar, Senegal, and to establish the headquarters of the new West African Development Bank in Lome, Togo. On May 3, 1974 the subregional committee for West Africa of the Association of African Cen tral Banks, which includes the BCEAO and the central banks of The Gambia, Ghana, Mali, Nigeria, and Sierra Leone, adop ted a d ra ft project for the estab- lishment of a clearing mechanism among West A f r ican central banks. Fur thermore, the committee recommended that Governors invite the central banks of Guinea and Liberia and the monetary authorities of Guinea-Bissau to join the proposed clearing ar- rangement as well as the Association of African Central Banks. Some progress was made toward the establishment of the Economic Community for Development of West African States (CEDEAO) that would comprise all 15 West Afr ican States and thus would include (in addition to the countries of the CEAO, Dahomey, Guinea, Liberia, and Togo) two Sterling Area coun- tries, Ghana and Nigeria. At the 10th Annual Meeting of the Afr ican Development Bank (AfDB) held on July 1-6, 1974, the Governors adopted a resolution establishing a special relief fund for Afr ican countries aff l ic ted by drought, to provide grants and loans for national and regional projects designed to counteract the e f fec ts of the drought and to prevent its recurrence. The African Development Fund (ADF), which was set up in 1973 extended several loans in 1974. During the first Annual Meeting of the ADF, which was held on July 1-6, the Board of Governors of the ADF adopted several resolutions which provided guidelines for fu tu re operations of the Development Fund. The Governors agreed that priority should be given to the poorest and drought-stricken countries and that loans 18 for agricultural should be extended especially projects. The Special Arab Fund for Africa was established by the Arab oil producing countries in March 1974 with a capital of SDR 166 million. It is administered by the Arab League and is to support the purchase of oil by Afr ican countries. In December, Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swazi- land reached agreement for a formalization and revision of the Rand Mone tary Area (RMA) arrange- ments and adop ted certain changes in the existing arrangemen ts; Botswana withdrew from the nego- tiations but continues to participate de facto in the RMA arrangements. In September 1974 Swaziland introduced its own currency, the lilangeni; it is at par with the South African rand, which continues to have legal tender s ta tus toge ther with the lilangeni. The A rab Fund for Economic and Social Develop- ment was established in December 1971 to promote economic and social development of the A rab coun- tries by providing project loans on concessional terms as well as technical assistance. Its capital of SDR 280 million is subscribed to by the 20 Arab League countries. As of April 1974 the Arab Fund had approved six loans totaling SDR 78 million to six Arab countries at interest rates varying be tween 4 per cent and 6 per cent per annum. In June 1974, the oil ministers of the Organization of A rab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC) crea ted a special fund with an allocation of US$80 million for 1974 to provide f inanc ial assistance to A rab non-oil exporting countries. As of November 5, 1974 six countries had pledged about US$70 million. The Arab Fund for Economic and Social Develop- ment has been en t rus ted with the management of this fund. In September 1974, OAPEC member countries decided on the creation of a special fund for promoting economic deve lopmen t, particularly indus- trialization, in the Arab world. The proposed capital of the special f u nd is the equivalent of SDR 840 million. In August 1974, 24 Islamic states6 signed the char ter establishing the Islamic Development Bank with an initial authorized capital of 750 million Islamic dinars (one Islamic dinar is equivalent to one SDR). The capital of the Bank is expected to be increased to the equivalent of SDR 2 billion. The Bank, which will be located in Jeddah, is expected to 6 Algeria, Bangladesh, Chad, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen Arab Republic. Subsequently these were joined by Bahrain, Guinea, and Libyan Arab Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS commence operations when 50 per cent of the initial capital has been subscribed, and will assist in the economic and social development of Islamic countries and countries with large Muslim communities. It will give loans for development projects and may also participate in the equity capital of selected enter- prises. At the end of 1973, all member countries of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA)7 had subscribed to the Caracas Protocol, thus formally postponing until the end of 1980 the deadline for the completion of the free trade area arrangements. During 1974 representatives of member countries of LAFTA met periodically to find ways to strengthen the integration process. On the occasion of the first round of collective negotiation held in Buenos Aires, August 18-27, 1974, the LAFTA countries reaffirmed their attachment to the goal of closer integration; committed themselves to achieving this through renewed efforts, particularly with regard to regional trade and multilateral ventures; concurred that existing LAFTA mechanisms should be restructured, or new ones adopted, in order to expedite the liberalization of trade; and reiterated their willingness to contribute to the consolidation and reinforcement of Andean subregional integration. At a second meeting held in Quito, September 23-28, the repre- sentatives discussed ways to improve financial cooper- ation, especially in the field of tax policy. They also agreed to seek the alignment of national policies with regard to industrial and agricultural development. A special group was set up to study possible reforms to be introduced in the integration mechanism and organs. This group was to submit its recommendation at a third meeting held in Montevideo on Novem- ber 18-22. In addition to the above meetings, numerous sectoral meetings were held during 1974 at which specific projects were approved. The multi- lateral system of payments was fu r ther expanded with new reciprocal credit agreements between Brazil and Uruguay and between Mexico and the Dominican Republic, and the credit element in the system was again increased. On February 13, 1974 Mexico defined its position on the Latin American inte- gration process. Mexico called for a strengthening of LAFTA, mainly through the introduction of an automatic tariff reduction mechanism and the imple- mentation of a regional industrial policy, including the establishment of multilateral corporations directly connected to the integration process. In 1973 the economic ministers of the member Countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM)8 had established a high level committee for the restructuring of the CACM. The committee was to submit its initial recommendations before the end of April 1974. At its fourth session held on March 20-23, 1974, the committee adopted several propositions, particularly with respect to regional projects, the creation of a regional capital market, and the establishment of Central American multi- national enterprises. These proposals, as well as subsequent ones adopted at meetings held in June and September, were to be submitted to the economic ministers for approval. At its meeting held on June 20-22, 1974 the committee adopted rec- ommendations regarding import substitution, tariff protection, and harmonization of the tax system. In September the discussion of the committee focused on agricultural policy, intraregional t rade, and trans- fer of technology. On August 23-24, 1974 the Central American Monetary Council met to discuss a draft agreement designed to update and improve the functioning of the Central American Clearing House. Trade relations between the other CACM members and Honduras were further normalized. The Andean Group of countries9 promulgated on January 18, 1974 a draft Treaty for the Creation of the Cartagena Agreement Court. The Treaty will enter into force once all the members have subscribed to it. The Ministers of Agriculture of the Group met in Lima on January 30-February 1, 1974. They studied matters relevant to the integration of agri- culture and livestock and set up two commissions which submitted proposals for the creation of an agricultural council, the preparation of joint agri- cultural programs, and the identification of projects in the field of animal husbandry, to be financed partly by the Andean Development Corporation. During 1974 considerable attention was devoted within the Andean Group to the implementation of Decision 24 of the Cartagena Agreement. This Deci- sion requires members of the Andean Group to adopt similar provisions regarding the treatment of foreign capital. In 1974, both Chile and Venezuela issued implementing regulations. Some members did not consider the Chilean Decree-Law No. 600 to be fully consistent with the Cartagena Agreement. A com- mission of experts was set up to study the matter, and Chile subsequently issued a clarification as to the implementation of the Decree-Law. 7 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 8 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 9 Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RE PORT ON EXCHANGE RESTR ICT IONS The Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM), which came into operation in August 1973 with Barbados, Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago as original members, was enlarged to include ten new members during 1974. On May 1, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Mon tse r ra t, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent formally acceded, followed in July by Antigua, and subsequently St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla. In July, Mexico signed an agreement with CARICOM under the provisions of which a Joint Commission was estab- lished to promote cooperation between Mexico and the CARICOM member countries in the fields of trade, science, and culture. In April 1974, the United Nations Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East (ECAFE) passed a resolution changing its name to the Un i ted Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). On September 9, Nepal became the f if th country to sign the Agreement establishing the Asian Clearing Union (ACU). As a result, the Agreement legally entered into force on December 9, 1974. The other signatories are Bangladesh, Ind ia, I ran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. The inaugural meeting of the Board of Directors of the ACU was held in Bangkok in December 1974. The Central Bank of Iran was designated as the agent bank. A technical committee was established to draw up rules for the operation of the ACU. APPENDIX GUIDELINES FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF FLOATING EXCHANGE RATES Introduction There is widespread agreement that the behavior of governments with respect to exchange rates is a ma t ter of international concern and a ma t ter for consultation and surveillance in the Fund. This is no less true when rates are floating than when they are contained within f ixed margins and are changed by par value and central rate adjustments. The Fund cannot legally authorize floating but it can exercise surveillance over the manner in which members fulfill their unde r tak ing, und er Article IV, Section 4(<z), "to collaborate with the Fund to promote exchange stability, to maintain orderly exchange arrangements with other members and to avoid competitive exchange alterations." The fol- lowing guidelines, though not exhausting the possibil- ities of action by the Fund under this Ar t ic le, are intended to provide criteria that members would observe in perform ing their unde r tak ing and that the Fund would observe in exercising surveillance in present circumstances. These guidelines are based on the assumption that in any situation of floating it may be desirable (a) to smooth out very short-run f luc tua t ions in market rates and (b) to o f fer a measure of resistance to ma rket tendencies in the slightly longer run, par- ticularly when they are leading to undu ly rapid movemen ts in the ra te, and (c) to the ex tent that it is possible to form a reasonable estimate of the med ium- term norm for a coun try's exchange ra te, to resist movemen ts in market rates that appear to be deviating substantially from that norm. Guidelines of this kind are necessary, in ter alia, in order to arrive at a clear conception of what competitive exchange alteration is, and to provide safeguards against it. The guidelines also take into accoun t: (a) that national policies, including those relating 20 to domestic stabilization, should not be sub jec ted to grea ter constraints than are clearly necessary in the in terna t ional in te res t; (b) that a degree of unce r ta in ty necessarily at- taches to any estimate of a med ium- term normal exchange ra te, that this uncer ta in ty is particularly great in present circumstances, and that on occasion the ma rket view may be more realistic than any official view whe ther of the coun try primarily con- cerned or of an international body; and (c) that in view of the strength of short-term market forces it may at times be unavoidable to forego or curtail official in terven t ion that would be desirable from the s tandpo int of exchange stability if such intervention should involve an excessive drain on reserves or an impact on the money supply which it is d iff icu lt to neutralize. The guidelines are in tended to provide the basis for a mean ingful dialogue be tween the Fund and member countries with a view to promoting interna- tional consistency during a period of widespread floating. They are termed guidelines ra ther than rules to ind ica te their ten ta t ive and experimental character. They should be adap tab le to changing circumstances. No a t tempt is here made to indicate the precise procedures through which they would be im- p lemen ted. These will be considered la ter, but they must essentially rest on an intensification of the conf iden t ial interchange between the member and the Fund. In the application of the guidelines it is to be expected tha t, in view of the emphasis laid by the Committee of Twenty at their fifth (Rome) meeting on the importance in present circumstances of avoiding competitive depreciation, particular atten- tion would be attached to depar tures from the guidelines in the direction of depreciation. Special consideration will also be given to the manner in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution A P P E N D IX which the guidelines should be applied by developing countries, taking account of the stage of evolution of their exchange markets and intervention practices. The guidelines should be unders tood in the light of the commentary which follows. The Guidelines (1) A member with a floating exchange rate should intervene on the foreign exchange market as necessary to prevent or moderate sharp and disruptive fluctuations from day to day and from week to week in the exchange value of its currency. (2) Subject to (3)(b), a member with a floating rate may act, through intervention or otherwise, to moderate movements in the exchange value of its currency from month to month and quarter to quarter, and is encouraged to do so, if necessary, where factors recognized to be temporary are at work. Subject to (1) and (3)(a), the member should not normally act aggressively with respect to the exchange value of its currency (i.e., should not so act as to depress that value when it is falling, or to enhance that value when it is rising). (3) (a) If a member with a floating rate should desire to act otherwise than in accordance with (1) and (2) above in order to bring its exchange rate within, or closer to, some target zone of rates, it should consult with the Fund about this target and its adaptation to changing circumstances. If the Fund considers the target to be within the range of reasonable estimates of the medium-term norm for the exchange rate in question, the member would be free, subject to (5), to act aggressively to move its rate towards the target zone, though within that zone (2) would continue to apply. (b) If the exchange rate of a member with a floating rate has moved outside what the Fund considers to be the range of reasonable estimates of the medium-term norm for that exchange rate to an extent the Fund considers likely to be harmful to the interests of members, the Fund will consult with the member, and in the light of such consultation may encourage the member, despite 2 above, (i) not to act to moderate movements toward this range, or (ii) to take action to moderate fur ther divergence from the range. A member would not be asked to hold any particular rate against strong market pressure. (4) A member with a floating exchange rate would be encouraged to indicate to the Fund its broad objective for the development of its reserves over a period ahead and to discuss this objective with the Fund. If the Fund, taking account of the world reserve situation, considered this objective to be reasonable and if the member's reserves were re- latively low by this standard, the member would be encouraged to intervene more strongly under Guide- line (2) to moderate a movement in its rate when the rate was rising than when it was falling. If the member's reserves were relatively high by this stand- ard it would be encouraged to intervene more strongly to moderate a movement in its rate when the rate was falling than when it was rising. In considering target exchange rate zones under (3), also, the Fund would pay due regard to the desirability of avoiding an increase over the medium term of reserves that were recognized by this standard to be relatively high, and the reduction of reserves that were recognized to be relatively low. (5) A member with a floating rate, like other members, should refrain from introducing restrictions for balance of payments purposes on current account transactions or payments and should endeavor pro- gressively to remove such restrictions of this kind as may exist. (6) Members with a floating rate will bear in mind, in intervention, the interests of other members including those of the issuing countries in whose currencies they intervene. Mutually satisfactory ar- rangements might usefully be agreed between the issuers and users of intervention currencies, with respect to the use of such currencies in intervention. Any such arrangements should be compatible with the purposes of the foregoing guidelines. The Fund will stand ready to assist members in dealing with any problems that may arise in connection with them. Commentary General Certain of the terms used in the guidelines may be de f ined as follows: (i) "A member with a floating exchange rate" means a member whose currency is floating inde- pendently in the sense that it is not pegged, within relatively narrow margins, to any other currency or composite of currencies. Members whose currencies are pegged to particular floating currencies, or to composites of such currencies, within these margins would be exempt from these guidelines, though not from any general principles relating to adjustment. Members which, though their currencies are pegged to another currency, change the peg frequently in the light of some formula relating, e.g., to price indices, would be expected to discuss this formula and any changes therein with the Fund. Members whose currencies are pegged to a composite of other currencies (e.g., members whose effective rates are fixed) would likewise be expected to discuss with the Fund the composite in question and any changes therein. Members whose currencies are floating joint- ly under mutual intervention arrangements with relatively narrow margins would be exempted from the intervention guidelines so far as intervention in each other's currencies is concerned, but would be held responsible to the Fund for their exchange market intervention vis-a-vis the rest of the world. As regards capital controls, official financing, and other measures to influence capital flows, each member belonging to such a group would be responsible for its measures judged in relation to its overall balance of payments situation. (ii) "Exchange market intervention" would norm- ally be measured by the movement of reserves, adjusted as appropriate for compensatory official borrowing. Consideration might also be given to including in the concept of intervention changes in official foreign exchange positions other than re- serves. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS (iii) "Action to influence an exchange rate" in- cludes, besides exchange market intervention, other policies that exercise a temporary effect on the balance of payments and hence on exchange rates, and that have been adopted for that purpose. Such policies may take the form of official forward exchange market intervention, official foreign bor- rowing or lending, capital restrictions, separate capital exchange markets, various types of fiscal inter- vention, and also monetary or interest rate policies. Monetary or interest rate policies adopted for demand management purposes or other policies adopted for purposes other than balance of payments purposes would not be regarded as action to influence the exchange rate. (iv) Where the terms "exchange rate" or "ex- change value" are employed with respect to any currency it is assumed that these would normally be expressed in terms of effec t ive rates, i.e., the value of the currency would be measured relative to a repre- sentative set of currencies rather than relative to its intervention currency alone. The set chosen for this purpose should, in principle, vary from country to country, and the currencies in the set should be weighted according to their importance to the coun- try in question. The composition of the set might be based on trade and financial relationships or on trade relationships alone. If trade-weighted, it might be derived from the Multilateral Exchange Ra te Mode l, or based on bilateral trade relationships. In some cases the basket used for the valuation of the SDR might be satisfactory for this purpose also. In some cases, finally, the rate vis-a-vis a single currency might provide a satisfactory approximation to an effective rate. On Guideline (1) Known large once-for-all or reversible transactions would be largely offset and their e f fec ts spread over time. In addition, intervention would be unde r taken to modera te large day-to-day or week-to-week move- ments in rates due to speculative or other factors. Such intervention, if properly conducted, should tend to net out over time. It is unlikely to be necessary for the issuer of the principal intervention currency itself to intervene from day to day in the manner described in this guideline. On Guideline (3) (i) The concept of a med ium - te rm norm for an exchange rate is employed explicitly in (a) and implicitly in (b) of Guideline (3). By this is meant a rate that would tend to bring about equilibrium in the "underlying" balance of paymen ts, i.e., in the overall balance in the absence of cyclical and other short-term factors affec t ing the balance of payments, including government policies which are, or, on internationally accepted principles, ought to be temporary. If the member concerned so proposes and the Fund agrees, "equilibrium" could allow for an internationally appropr ia te ra te of increase or de- crease in the member's reserves. The "medium-term" 22 might be considered to re fer to a period of about four years. Seasonal, speculative, and cyclical factors whose effec ts were reversible over such a period would be ignored. (ii) An advantage of conceiving med ium- term norms or target zones in terms of effective rates is that so long as the effective ra te remains constant the balance of t rade or currency paymen ts of the f loa t ing country would not be greatly affec ted by changes in the relative exchange ra tes of the currencies of other countries. This should reduce the frequency with which it would be necessary to change zone boundaries, or the magn i tude of the changes involved. It would be open to a member if it so desired to express its target ra te or zone not as one that is constant over time but as one that is rising or falling at a certain rate or at a ra te dependen t, for example, on an index of relative price or cost levels. (iii) Under Guideline (3)(b) the Fund would be authorized to take the initiative in situations where it considered that a member's ra te was likely to become h a rm ful to the interests of members whe ther as a result of ma rket forces or of action by the member. Recommenda t ions to a member under this provision would be made by the Executive Directors, on a proposal by the Managing Director, but the Managing Director would not make such a proposal except a f ter consultation with the member. (iv) The grea ter the degree of uncer ta in ty re- garding the balance of payments situation and pro- spects of a country the wider would be the range of reasonable estimates of the medium-term norm for its exchange ra te, and the wider would be the deviation beyond this range which would occur before the Fund would make any suggestions under Guideline (3)(b). The Fund 's right to make suggestions under this guideline will, in any case, be exercised with restraint. (v) In any suggestions the Fund might make under Guideline (3)(b), it would give a preference to liberalizing as opposed to restricting ways of exer- cising a given e f fect on exchange rates, but would bear in mind the distinction between capital controls applied for temporary balance of paymen ts reasons and those applied for other economic and social reasons. On Guideline (6) This guideline would imply that in their use of their customary reserve currencies members with a floating ra te, while recognizing the need of issuing countries for reasonable freedom of exchange rate movement, should not be precluded f rom intervening in a manner conformable with the guidelines. Among the problems that might arise regarding the use of intervention currencies, in the resolution of which the Fund might be of service, are those regarding the circumstances in which a member might intervene in a currency other than its customary reserve currency, the problem of interventions that move the value of the currency of intervention in an undesirable direc- tion, and the problem of mutually offsetting inter- ventions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange sys- tems of the member countries of the Fund, including three nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The ex- change system of one other country which was not a member of the Fund at the time this Report was written is also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1974. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place early in 1975. The description of an exchange system is not neces- sarily confined to those aspects involving exchange re- strictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and jurisdiction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe re- strictive systems in their entirety, except for the tariff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit require- ments, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licens- ing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes during 1974" may include references to certain developments that have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as major revisions of import tariffs or developments relating to regional coopera- tion. A standardized framework has been employed in drafting the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more signifi- cant changes which took place in the restrictive system during 1974. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value and /or the central rate and /or the official exchange rates are given, usually in terms of SDRs, gold, and U.S. dollars, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of certain countries with multiple exchange rate systems, further details are given in a Table of Ex- change Rates (see below). The rates quoted are those effective on December 31, 1974, unless stated other- wise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of ap- plicability of the exchange control is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories whose residents have common rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control some indication is given of the authorities responsible for policy and ad- ministration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working pur- poses. Under Prescription of Currency, the requirements af- fecting the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are de- scribed. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other countries, the terms of these agreements often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international importance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by nonresidents in accounts with authorized banks. Payments to and from such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in foreign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resi- dent in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the nature and opera- tion of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licens- ing requirements are described briefly, and details are given of the additional requirements imposed on pay- ments for imports and of any advance deposit require- ments. The term "open general license" indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other inter- national transactions are exempt from the restrictive application of licensing requirements, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed to indicate quotas that are not necessarily universal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limita- tions on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined with the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements im- posed on the proceeds derived from exports. The ex- pression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" indicates that the recipient is required by the regula- tions to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usually at the official rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that the exchange be sold in a free market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions gov- erning exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital a general indication of the special arrangements or limitations attached to international receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are usually dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Pay- ments for Invisibles and Proceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are summarized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is provided for certain countries having a multiple currency prac- tice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective on a specified date are given. For conve- nience, the data in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U.S. dollar. The tables include effec- tive rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at different rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1974, the more significant changes in the country's exchange and trade system during 1974 are presented in chronological order. Im- portant measures made effective in the early months of 1975 are indicated in certain surveys in notes to the text. Notes to country surveys are placed at the end of the survey concerned. The individual country surveys were prepared by the staff of the Fund and reviewed by the authorities of the countries concerned. Preparation of this part of the Report was under the general direction of Mr. J. H. C. de Looper, Chief, Exchange Restrictions Division. 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On March 22, 1963, an initial par value was estab- lished of 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per Afghani, corresponding at the time to Af 45 = SDR 1. No exchange transactions take place at the par value. The Afghanistan Bank (the central bank) quotes official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of Af 44.70 and Af 45.30, respectively. The official selling rate ap- plies to certain foreign exchange payments by the Cen- tral Government (debt service, contributions to international organizations, and the foreign exchange requirements of Afghan embassies and missions abroad). The official buying rate applies to the proceeds of exports of natural gas (which is exported only to the U.S.S.R.); to 40 per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees of the Government, government enterprises, and domestic companies; and to purchases of bilateral agreement currencies for maintenance in Afghanistan of embassies and state trading organiza- tions by the respective bilateral partner countries. The Afghanistan Bank charges commissions ranging from l/10 of 1 per cent to Y2 of 1 per cent on exchange transactions. Special arrangements are applicable to karakul, cot- ton, and wool. The proceeds from exports of karakul are eligible for settlement either at an effective exchange rate of Af 75 per US$1 (official exchange rate plus exchange subsidy of Af 30 per US$1) or at the free market rate, if lower than Af 75 per US$1. The surren- der rate for proceeds from wool exports to the convert- ible currency area is Af 75 per US$1 (official rate plus subsidy of Af 30 per US$1) or at the free market rate if lower than AF 75 per US$1, while that for wool exported to bilateral countries is Af 60 per US$1 (offi- cial rate plus subsidy of Af 15 per US$1). The surren- der rate for proceeds from cotton exports to bilateral countries is Af 60 per US$1 (official rate plus subsidy of Af 15 per US$1), while the proceeds from exports of cotton to the convertible currency area are eligible for settlement either at Af 70 per US$1 (official rate plus subsidy of Af 25 per US$1) or the free market rate, whichever is lower. As at the end of 1974, the above-mentioned exchange subsidies on karakul and cotton were inoperative since the free market rate was well below Af 70 per US$1. All other transactions take place at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar; proceeds from the export of walnuts received over bilateral payments accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. The Afghanistan Bank maintains its operational free market selling rate for the U.S. dollar within Af 2.0 per US$1 of the daily free market rate quoted in the bazaar. On December 31, 1974, the free market rate of the Afghanistan Bank was Af 57 buying, and Af 59 sell- ing, per US$1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 56.55 buying, and Af 57.05 selling, per US$1. The Afghanistan Bank also posts free market rates for deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, which reflect their relative values to the U.S. dollar in international markets, and free market rates for the Indian rupee and Pakistan rupee, which are determined by demand and supply for the curren- cies concerned. The Afghanistan Bank from time to time buys and sells in the free market bilateral agreement dollars and bilateral agreement sterling resulting partly from loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghanistan's bi- lateral payments agreements; most of this exchange sold by the Bank is purchased by government commer- cial and industrial enterprises for their imports from the countries concerned. The selling rate for U.S.S.R. clear- ing dollars was Af 62.00 per US$1 on December 31, 1974, and that for Chinese clearing sterling (the Peo- ple's Republic of China) was Af 185.00 per £ stg. 1. On the same date, the selling rate for clearing dollars under the payments agreements with Czechoslovakia and Yugoslavia was Af 66.00 per US$1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Government through the Afghanistan Bank. The control is facili- tated by the existence of relatively large companies spe- cializing in the export of such commodities as karakul, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities, with the exception that the export of cot- ton is reserved for seven authorized companies. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Afghanistan has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. The proceeds from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible curren- cies. There are no other prescription of currency re- quirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports are not subject to license but import trans- actions must be registered before orders are placed abroad. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, li- quor, arms, and ammunition) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some in- stances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles and selected nonessential con- sumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantita- tive restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas (and sometimes 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN prices) for commodities to be traded, and the Govern- ment facilitates the fulfillment of the commitments un- dertaken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with bilateral agreement countries is carried out on a com- pensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against ex- ports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Govern- ment or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for the Government's external debt servicing. Payments for imports through the banking system to payments agreement countries may be made only under letters of credit. Payments to other countries may also be made against bills for collection or against an under- taking by the importer to import goods at least equiva- lent to the payment made through the banking system. A deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports in afghanis calculated at the prevailing free market rate, or in foreign exchange, is required upon establishment of a letter of credit. Such deposits may be used as collateral to obtain loans from commercial banks. The Afghanistan Bank is authorized to refuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of certain consumer goods that are regarded as nonessential; the commer- cial banks are obliged to conform with the central bank's practices. However, exchange for these items may be purchased in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Central government payments for foreign debt ser- vice and certain other invisibles are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at free market rates. There is an exchange allocation from the banks for tourist travel abroad of the equivalent of US$400 a person a trip, and for business travel of the equivalent of US$20 a day for a maximum of one month. The allocation for medical treatment abroad is US$20 a day for the United States, Europe, and Japan, and US$10 a day for other Asian countries; there are, in addition, allocations for accompanying persons. Specific permis- sion is required for the export by travelers of foreign currency notes in excess of the equivalent of US$50. Travelers are not allowed to take out more than AF 500 in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., opium and museum pieces) are pro- hibited. Otherwise, control is exercised only over ex- ports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Karakul is not exported to payments agreement countries. Exchange receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the appropriate ex- change rate (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). The net proceeds of all other exports must either be sold at free market rates to a domestic bank or be used by the exporter or a third party to pay for 28 imports. Export taxes are levied on cotton, oilseeds, walnuts, and raisins. Proceeds from Invisibles Forty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees of the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into afghanis at the official rate, but the remaining 60 per cent may be remitted abroad or exchanged at the free market rate. Except in the case of India, receipts over bilateral payments agreement accounts from the embassies and state trad- ing organizations of the countries concerned for their local expenses in Afghanistan are converted at the offi- cial rate. All other receipts from invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the ba- zaar. Travelers entering Afghanistan may not bring in more than Af 500 in Afghan banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior ap- proval and is administered, as is domestic private in- vestment, by an Investment Committee composed of five cabinet ministers. The Foreign and Domestic Pri- vate Investment Law of 1353 (issued on July 4, 1974) provides for a number of benefits, which include (1) income tax exemption for four years, beginning from the date of the first sales of products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports (mainly of capital goods); (3) exemp- tion from taxes on dividends for four years after the first distribution of dividends, but not more than seven years after the approval of the investment; (4) exemp- tion from personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on foreign loans which constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties, provided that the products are permitted to be exported; and (6) mandatory purchases by government agencies and departments of their requirements from enterprises established under the law where prices of such products are no more than 15 per cent higher than the price of importable equivalents. The law provides that foreign investment in Afghanistan can only take place through joint ventures, with foreign participation not exceeding 49 per cent. It also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no further license to operate in Afghani- stan. Principal and interest installments on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 20 per cent of the total regis- tered capital. All the foregoing transfers are made through the free market. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell domes- tically gold in any form in Afghanistan. Imports of gold are restricted. Exports of gold and silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Coun- cil of Ministers; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles containing minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a li- cense and may be made freely. Customs duties are pay- able on imports and exports of silver in any form unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The import duty on gold is 1 per cent. Changes during 1974 AFGHANISTAN tional prices. The swing credit was increased. March 21. All imports were required to be registered prior to the placing of orders abroad. Registration re- quirements also were introduced for export transac- tions. April 27. The banks were permitted to sell foreign exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of US$400 a person a trip. July 4. The Government issued the Foreign and Do- mestic Private Investment Law of 1353 (1974). It re- voked and replaced, with retroactive effect, the Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law of 1345 (1967). Foreign investment in Afghanistan henceforth could take place only on a joint venture basis, with foreign participation not to exceed 49 per cent; previously, there was no ceiling on foreign ownership. March L Temporary export taxes were imposed on cotton, oilseeds, walnuts, and raisins. March 20. Revised trade and payments arrange- ments were agreed upon with the U.S.S.R. Virtually all trade would henceforth take place at prevailing interna- NOTE 1 People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments arrange- ment with India under which the bulk of trade is settled through a special account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees with the Reserve Bank of India. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.180000 gram of fine gold per Algerian Dinar. Algeria avails itself of wider margins. Since January 21, 1974 Algeria has followed an inde- pendent exchange rate policy. Daily buying and selling rates for specified currencies1 are established by the Central Bank of Algeria. On December 30, 1974, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DA 3.9880 and DA 3.9740, respectively, per US$ 1. The Central Bank charges on its transactions in foreign currencies a commission ranging from 0.2 per mill to 0.4 per mill, depending on the nature of the transaction, and a tax of 6 per cent on the amount of the commission. An encouragement premium is granted on the conversion of convertible currencies re- patriated by Algerians working abroad. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their for- eign currency position with their foreign correspon- dents at the end of each day but under certain conditions, they are permitted to hold outside Algeria cover for documentary credits. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank assists in the formulation of the exchange legisla- tion and regulations and is responsible for their execu- tion and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Administration have been given authority to carry out many of the details of exchange control. Import and export licenses and global import quotas are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Import and export licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. The Office Na- tional de Commercialisation (ONACO), the Office Al- gerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OAIC), the Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Vitivinicoles (ONCV), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), the Societe Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED), the Societe Na- tionale de Siderurgie (SNS), the Societe Nationale de Constructions Mecaniques (SoNACOME), and other sim- ilar organizations have a monopoly over the import of a large number of commodities. The Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la Transformation et la Commercialisation des Hydrocar- bures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum products, and handles most exports of these commodities. Invest- ment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Invest- 30 ment Code. All foreign borrowing requires the prior approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Algeria has certain traditional ties with the French Franc Area. The Central Bank does not maintain an Operations Account with the French Treasury and Al- geria in principle applies its exchange controls to trans- actions with all countries.2 Settlements with countries in the French Franc Area are generally made in French francs. Settlements with countries with which Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements are made through special accounts under the terms of the agree- ments. Some of these accounts are denominated in Al- gerian dinars and others in U.S. dollars of account. Algeria maintains payments agreements with Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslova- kia, Egypt, Guinea, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia.3 Specified noncommercial settlements with Morocco and Tunisia are channeled through a dirham account at the Bank of Morocco and an account in Tunisian dinars at the Cen- tral Bank of Tunisia. Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regulations pertaining to nonresident ac- counts are similar to those applied until early 1967 in France; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Internal Nonresident Ac- counts. For residents of other French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian dinars: Individual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Ac- counts, and Final Departure Accounts. Except as de- scribed below, all operations through these accounts are subject to authorization. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened with- out authorization and may be credited with payments from any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior authorization from the Central Bank. They may be credited freely for authorized imports from the French Franc Area, and with proceeds from the sale of con- vertible currencies; with proceeds from the sale of freely disposable funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area; and with interest on the balances of Franc Area Ac- counts. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other payments. They may be debited freely for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any country in the French Franc Area (including Algeria); for any transfer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with which the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repay- ment of capital claims. Transfers between these ac- counts are free. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, without prior authorization, in the name of any physical person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person con- cerned; with the proceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the funds are paid di- rectly by a notary public; with the proceeds of the sale of securities through the intermediary of a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 1,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other specific pay- ments. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for certain payments in Algeria on behalf of the account holder. Outward transfers require individ- ual approval; all other balances were released on Sep- tember 25, 1974 for transfer abroad. The Central Bank maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agreements. Residents and nonresidents may maintain certain ac- counts in Algeria that are fed with the proceeds from the conversion of convertible currencies (comptes epargne-devises). Depositors receive a premium equiva- lent to one eighth of the amounts deposited; for depos- its made by persons working in France, the premium is a flexible one ensuring an effective conversion rate of F 1 = DA 1. Withdrawals may be made in Algerian dinars only. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain imports are prohibited regardless of origin. Commodities listed under some 600 tariff head- ings and subheadings are liberalized and do not require import licenses. All other imports are permitted, in principle, in accordance with an annual import pro- gram. This is implemented mainly through global im- port authorizations (autorisations globales ^importation or AGI) granted to public enterprises or sometimes to private enterprises. A small number of restricted commodities (produits contingentees) requires an individual import license (autorisation prealable ^importation or API), unless covered by a global im- port authorization. Imports made "without payment" (sanspaiemeni), i.e., imports which do not involve com- pensation of any kind, require the approval of the Min- istry of Commerce and are not charged against the global authorizations of public enterprises. The Gov- ernment in principle has the monopoly over the impor- tation of many commodities through ON AGO, OAIC, SNTA, ONCV, SNED, SNS, SONATRACH, SONACOME, and other similar organizations, but imports are not necessarily restricted to the monopoly holders. ALGERIA All imports must prior to the transaction be domi- ciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. Unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import value, whichever is smaller. Pay- ments for imports may be approved by, and settled through, the Postal Administration up to an import value of DA 5,000. All individual import licenses re- quire the visa of the Central Bank. Importers may purchase the necessary exchange from the bank concerned when they have domiciled the transaction. Some imports may be paid for as soon as the transaction has been domiciled. For other imports, unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of a commercial contract approved by the authorities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only after the shipping documents have been presented to the bank; the im- porter may in this case, after having domiciled the im- port, open a documentary import credit payable upon presentation of the shipping documents. Goods subject to import license and quota restric- tions may be freely imported in small parcels, provided that the value of a shipment does not exceed DA 60 and the same addressee does not receive more than one parcel a day and that the parcels he receives during the year do not exceed DA 240 in value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. However, when sup- porting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the Postal Administration, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, and (5) advertising expenses. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be au- thorized by either the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance. Certain public enterprises, however, which re- ceive special exchange allocations (budget devised) may use these freely for payments for specified invisibles, including transportation and other services contracted abroad. The transfer of family remittances is sus- pended. Residents of other countries working in Algeria un- der the programs for technical cooperation or for pub- lic enterprises and agencies or certain mixed companies may transfer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries, as follows: 55 per cent for single persons and married persons having their families in Algeria; 75 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA their leave). For other workers who have contracts with other employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be transferred are 35 per cent, 55 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumerated above. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remunera- tion for the previous mon th. Persons mak ing such transfers of savings are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers (e.g., for educational pur- poses). For residents traveling by air or sea to other countries, including countries in the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 300 a person a trip (DA 150 for children under 15) and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and travel documents; for overland travel, the allocation is DA 300 a person a calendar semester for adults and DA 150 for children under 15. These allocations are not applicable to persons living in border areas. For- eign travel requires the approval of the wali of the traveler's place of domicile. Algerian workers who hold a card of the Office National de la Main-d'Oeuvre (ONAMO) are entitled to the equivalent of DA 500 a person for the first trip abroad, and to the equivalent of DA 200 a person for each subsequent trip. Foreign exchange for private business travel, unless debited to an ED AC or EDAB Account (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), is subject to authoriza- tion by the Central Bank and allocations cannot exceed DA 1,500 a trip. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia may obtain Saudi Arabian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 2,100 a per- son; the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in banknotes by those traveling overland. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Non- resident travelers may also re-export any foreign cur- rency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machinery, livestock, firearms, ammunition, explo- sives, and certain radio equipment, are prohibited re- gardless of destination. All other exports may, in principle, be effected freely, without an export license. In practice, some exports to the French Franc Area, all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area that are not included in the free export list, and all exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements require licenses. Some commodi- ties may be exported, subject to individual prior ap- proval, on the basis of linked transactions {transactions liees) involving at the same time an authorized import transaction. With certain exceptions, exports must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not re- quired for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, 32 provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 60 days. After customs clearance, such exports must be regis- tered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 30 days, the exports may be regis- tered only after authorization is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authorization by the Central Bank, and registration must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports of commodities other than hydrocarbons, including those to the French Franc Area, must be repatriated immediately after collection; the due date of the export contract must not be later than 60 days following shipment, except when prior authorization from the Central Bank is obtained. Those nationalized petroleum companies holding mineral rights in which the Algerian Government has acquired majority control must repatriate to Algeria the pro- ceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons calculated on the basis of a reference price per barrel that is fixed by agreement with the companies concerned. For one pe- troleum company holding mineral rights, however, there are different repatriation requirements. Exporters may retain 2 per cent (1 per cent for con- signment sales) of the export proceeds of all commodi- ties other than hydrocarbons in special accounts, unless exports are made on a compensation basis (echanges compenses). These accounts are of two kinds —ED AC (Exportateurs-dinars convertibles) and EDAB (Expor- tateurs-dinars bilateraux). Balances are nontransferable and may be used by the holder himself for business travel, certain services of foreign technicians, and im- ports of spare parts. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and sur- rendered. Savings repatriated by Algerians working abroad are eligible for an "encouragement premium." There are no restrictions on the import of foreign bank- notes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but nonresidents, including those of Algerian nationality, must declare such holdings when they en- ter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian bank- notes. Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender capital assets (or the sales proceeds thereof) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital transfers to any desti- nation are subject to individual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrowing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance. A new Investment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promulgated by Ordinance No. 66-284 of Septem- ber 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors. The new code provides for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liqui- dation proceeds of invested foreign capital, and estab- lishes that profit remittances on such investments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and investments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Remit- tances of profits and retransfers of capital are permitted only in respect of investments approved under Ordi- nance No. 66-284. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for numismatic purposes. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Cen- tral Bank; such licenses are not normally granted ex- cept for imports and exports on behalf of authorized industrial and dental users, and licenses for imports for industrial use have not been issued for some time. Un- der the terms of Ordinance No. 70-6 of January 16, 1970, unworked gold for industrial and professional use is to be distributed by the Agence Nationale pour la Distribution et la Transformation de 1'Or et des Autres Metaux Precieux (AGENOR). This agency is also authorized to purchase in Algeria, and to hold, process, and distribute any other precious metal, and, within the exchange control regulations, to import and export any precious metal, including gold. Furthermore, locally produced gold must be sold to this agency. As at the end of 1974, AGENOR had not yet come into operation and some of its functions continued to be performed by the Central Bank (e.g., the issuance of import licenses for dental gold). Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are prohibited. Changes during 1974 January 1. Notice No. 77 of November 27, 1973 of the Ministry of Finance was published. It established procedures for transfers abroad under contracts con- cluded by the State, local authorities, and public sector agencies of an administrative nature. Notice No. 59 of June 26, 1968 was revoked. January 21. The fixed exchange rate for the French franc of DA 1 = F 1.12499 (F 1.00 = DA 0.8889) was discontinued. Algeria henceforth followed an inde- pendent exchange rate policy and determined the ex- change rate for the dinar on the basis of an import-weighted exchange rate index. January 21. The premium of 12y2 per cent of the amount deposited that was granted on deposits in comptes epargne-devises was increased and made flexi- ble for holders of such accounts working in France, so that these persons would at all times receive an ex- change rate of F 1 = DA 1 on the conversion of their remittances. ALGERIA January 30. Ordinance No. 74-11 liberalized the ex- port trade. While existing export prohibitions in respect of certain countries remained in force, exports and re-exports in principle no longer required an export license and the export monopolies in principle were suspended. The Minister of Commerce was empowered to subject exports and re-exports to prior authorization in light of the economic situation and the need to pro- tect the national economy. January 30. Ordinance No. 74-12 established that commercial imports henceforth would take place within the framework of a "general import program" approved by the Government. There would be only three import regimes: (1) the regime of global import authorizations issued to enterprises; (2) the regime of goods subject to no restriction which could be im- ported freely, which regime was applicable to all com- mercial operators; and (3) the regime of quota items (marchandises contingenteed) to be imported under the conditions of Decree No. 63-188 of May 16, 1963, which regime would apply only to commercial opera- tors who had received no global import authorizations. Each import commodity could be subject to only one of these three regimes. Unrestricted goods could be imported without any formality, while restricted goods required an import license. The list of restricted imports was to be estab- lished by the Minister of Commerce. February 23. Notice No. 79 of the Ministry of Fi- nance established that henceforth resident travelers of foreign nationality could upon departure reconvert into foreign exchange any unutilized dinars resulting from the conversion of foreign exchange that had been remit- ted through the banking system or the Postal Adminis- tration. February 23. Notice No. 81 of the Ministry of Fi- nance modified Notice No. 76 of July 27, 1973 regard- ing the export of means of payment by travelers. Travelers of Algerian nationality habitually residing abroad could upon return abroad obtain an exchange allocation of one fifth (previously one tenth) of the amount of foreign exchange they had brought in and converted at the border or at an authorized bank; the allocation could not exceed the equivalent of DA 1,000. Any premium obtained on the conversion of the imported foreign exchange had to be returned to the Treasury pro rata upon reconversion of dinars; where the encouragement premium of 12y2 per cent had been received, the percentage to be applied to the dinars being reconverted was 11.111 per cent. March 1. Notice No. 80 of February 23 of the Min- istry of Finance increased the basic exchange allocation for private travel by residents from DA 100 a person a trip to DA 300 a person a trip, for travel by air or sea; the allocation for overland travel was increased from DA 100 a person a year to DA 300 a person a calendar semester. The provisions of Notice No. 66 of September 16, 1970 were modified accordingly. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA March 4. Instruction No. 27 of the Minister of Fi- nance modified the procedures for the transfer abroad of scholarships. May 10. Instruction No. 28 of April 20 of the Minis- ter of Finance gave the banks (including the Central Bank) delegated authority to grant travel exchange to government officials and other persons of the public sector when traveling on official business. July 19. Notice No. 83 of the Ministry of Finance unified the rules applicable to the transfers of wages and earnings received in Algeria by foreign workers, irrespective of nationality or date of en try, having con- tracts with the State, local authorities, or public sector enterprises or offices. July 29. Notice No. 84 of the Ministry of Finance established new rules applicable to the transfer of wages and earnings received in Algeria by workers of foreign nationality, other than those active w i th in the framework of technical and cultural cooperation, who were permanently employed in Algeria. August 8. A new financial agreement with France was signed. It came into force on September 15 and replaced the agreement of December 31, 1962. September 21. Instruction No. 15 ZF of the Ministry of Finance permitted the transfer abroad of all balances held in comptes depart definitifv/ith the Postal Admin- istration and primary banks by physical persons resi- dent or having resided in Algeria but not having Algerian nationality. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dol- lars. 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Algeria its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968, in its financial relations with foreign countries are also applied to Algeria. 3 There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Cuba. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was established by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place in a dual ex- change market. In principle, the commercial market covers trade transactions and the financial market all other transactions, but in practice many import and export transactions are settled entirely or in part at the financial exchange rate, and at the end of 1974 the only transactions that took place entirely at the commercial rate were payments for certain essential imports (mainly petroleum and petroleum products, iron ore, and steel). In the commercial market, the Central Bank of Argentina deals with banks and authorized institu- tions at the rate of $a 5.00 per US$1, buying and sell- ing. In the financial market the exchange rate, which in principle is a fluctuating one, has been stable since May 1972; on December 31, 1974, it was $a 9.98 (selling) per US$1.1 The effective exchange rate for nonpromoted exports (including the basic traditional exports) and for many imports is a mixing rate derived from the conversion of 26 per cent of the amounts concerned at the commercial rate and 74 per cent at the financial rate; the corre- sponding buying and selling rates are $a 8.65 and $a 8.68 per US$1. Promoted exports (i.e., commodities listed in Decree No. 3255/71, as amended), exports from Tierra del Fuego, all imports of goods in List 2 of Central Bank Circular R.C. 446, imports from LAFTA countries of most goods on the lists of Decrees Nos. 7250/72 and 7251/72, all imports on a compen- sation basis of goods covered by Decree No. 2618/68, and exports and imports of books, newspapers, periodi- cals, and gold are settled entirely through the financial market. Imports of pearls, diamonds, platinum, and palladium also are settled entirely at the financial rate, and so are all imports that are exempted by special authorization from the temporary import bans. All for- eign exchange received by residents that does not con- stitute export proceeds must be sold in the financial market. Sales of foreign exchange to residents for travel pur- poses (other than official travel) are subject to an ex- change tax of $a 2.00 per US$1.2 Certain remittances of profits and dividends are subject to a tax ranging from 20 to 40 per cent. Exchange transactions between banks and individuals, other than transactions in bank- notes, are subject to a tax of 1 per cent (10 per mill) on sales to customers and 3 per mill on purchases. Forward exchange transactions may be concluded between individuals and authorized banks or among authorized banks at the prevailing financial rate, sub- ject to freely agreed premiums or discounts. Forward exchange purchases by the public are restricted to those concluded as part of a swap transaction, or to cover import payments made under documentary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee. Swap operations must be submitted to the Central Bank for prior ap- proval. Forward exchange purchases covering import payments require a 40 per cent deposit3 in local cur- rency for 180 days; this deposit may not be financed by local banks. Forward exchange contracts connected with imports may be extended for a period of up to 180 days from the date of their original maturity; those corresponding to exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavoid- ably delayed, for the period of the delay). Such con- tracts may be settled through clearing in the exchange market. The Central Bank intervenes in the financial forward exchange market as a seller of U.S. dollars at a premium which at the end of 1974 was 16 per cent per annum. Argentina formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions must be carried out through entities authorized expressly for this purpose. These authorized institutions include exchange agen- cies and exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Virtually all payments between Argentina and Bo- livia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, under re- ciprocal credit agreements within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Transactions with other cduntries must be settled in convertible cur- rencies. Proceeds from exports to 14 countries in West- ern Europe and to Canada and Japan must be received either in the currency of the importing country or in U.S. dollars. Import payments to these countries also may be made either in the currency of the country concerned or in U.S. dollars. All settlements with other countries with which no reciprocal credit agreement is in force must be made or received in U.S. dollars or in any of the 16 currencies referred to previously. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any nonresident, provided that the accounts are fed with remittances of convertible currencies only. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argen- 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA tina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely, except in payment of exports. Imports and Import Payments Imports are in principle free of import and exchange licensing. However, certain import suspensions are in effect.4 In addition, all imports by the public sector require the prior approval of the Ministry of Com- merce. Furthermore, certain imports of luxury goods or nonessential goods are prohibited. All imports require a sworn declaration of need submitted by the importer (declaration jurada) to the Ministry of Commerce. Also, sales of foreign exchange for virtually all imports with foreign financing of less than 180 days require the prior approval of the Central Bank; however, cash pay- ment is allowed for imports of LAFTA origin or origi- nating in other developing countries, and for imports of any origin when valued at less than US$10,000. Most goods of LAFTA origin are exempt from the import suspensions. Independently of these temporary measures, goods imported by official agencies require approval by the Ministry of Economy if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Furthermore, all public sector imports are screened by a special body, the Ase- soria de Importaciones del Sector Oficial. Imports of some vehicles, tractors, and engines are prohibited. Im- ports of capital goods are normally allowed only if there is no local production. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of 1V2 per cent payable normally in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of \V2 per cent or 3/10 of 1 per cent applicable to all imports; a stamp du ty of 0.6 per cent; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest products; and sales taxes ranging from 5 per cent to 22 per cent. All maritime imports are subject to a tax of 12 per cent on the freight, unless transported in Argentine vessels. Authorized banks are prohibited from opening docu- mentary credits in respect of public sector imports (other than for those originating in LAFTA countries) except with prior authorization from the Government. Furthermore, the Central Bank requires authorized in- stitutions to advise it of all requested payments cover- ing imports for which no banking documents are submitted, in which case Central Bank approval is re- quired. The same requirement applies when documents submitted do not specify the date of payment, or if the date originally indicated by the correspondent has been changed, and when bills or drafts expire more than f ive days prior to the date on which the transfer is required. An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the c. & f. value5 is required on many goods from all sources except when imported by the public sector, by some firms established in the Province of Tucuman, by cer- tain institutions, or according to the intended use of the goods; goods imported from LAFTA countries are ex- 36 empt if the goods are included in Argentina's conces- sion lists (including the special lists for Bolivia, Ecua- dor, Paraguay, and Uruguay). The commodities that do not require an advance deposit include most raw materials and fuels, many capital goods, and many semimanufactured goods for the production of nontra- ditional exports. The deposit is payable in pesos and calculated at the current exchange rate for the com- modity to be imported. It must be lodged before any of the following actions can be undertaken: opening a letter of credit; withdrawing shipping documents from the intermediary banks; purchasing forward exchange; or clearing goods through customs. The deposit is auto- matically refunded after 180 days. Payments for specified capital goods imported by private firms (with the exception mainly of those in lists applicable to LAFTA countries), when valued at over US$10,000 and purchased with foreign or domestic credit, must be made in installments over a period rang- ing from at least two years to at least five years after the date of shipment, depending on the total value of the goods. Payment in cash at the time of delivery is permitted, however, subject to prior Central Bank ap- proval, if the importer uses exclusively his own funds. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required also when the terms of payment are not in accordance with the prescribed minimum terms or when the amount payable exceeds the equivalent of US$1 million. Ad- vance payments for imports other than capital goods are permitted only in exceptional circumstances. Payments for Invisibles With the exception mainly of travel expenses, family remittances, and remittances of profits, dividends, and royalties, payments for invisibles may be made freely through the financial market. However, allocations of foreign exchange for licensing fees, royalties, and tech- nical services are subject to prior approval by the Na- tional Registry of Contracts, Licenses, and Transfer of Technology. Persons and firms eligible for remittances of profits, dividends, and royalties are not granted for- eign exchange in amounts greater than US$5,000 for each transaction, but instead are permitted to subscribe to negotiable five-year U.S. dollar-denominated exter- nal bonds issued by the Government. These may be freely exported and imported. The sale of exchange for private travel abroad nor- mally is limited to US$50 a person a day, up to US$1,500 a person a trip (half of these amounts for children), or, for neighboring countries, US$15 a per- son a day, subject to a limit of US$450 a person a trip.6 The exchange must be purchased in the financial mar- ket and is subject to an exchange tax of $a 2.00 per US$1.7 Of the travel allocation for bordering countries, up to the equivalent of $a 150 may be taken out in the form of U.S. dollar banknotes or travelers checks or the equivalent of $a 600 in banknotes of the country of destination; the limit on banknotes and travelers checks ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is $a 650 for travel to other countries. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic banknotes and coins except gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds A number of exports are prohibited or restricted. Minimum export prices are established for many agri- cultural and livestock exports as a basis for the pay- ment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. The full proceeds from all exports must be repatriated and surrendered; the proceeds must not be less than the index value or the f.o.b. value declared on the shipping permit. Exporters of traditional commodities are re- quired to receive the foreign exchange proceeds either before shipment or under an irrevocable documentary credit payable against shipping documents, and they must sell these proceeds within 10 working days after shipment. The proceeds from promoted exports (listed in Circular R.C. 424) must be surrendered within 180 days of shipment, and payments may be received against drafts, in addition to the forms of payment prescribed for traditional exports. There are separate arrangements for exports of books, newspapers, and periodicals; the proceeds of newspapers and periodicals must be surrendered within 360 days of shipment and the proceeds of books within 18 months of shipment. The full proceeds from promoted exports listed in De- cree No. 3255/71 (as amended) and from all goods exported from the special customs territory in Tierra del Fuego are eligible for the financial rate, while all other exports are settled at the mixing rate (74 per cent at the financial rate and 26 per cent at the commercial rate). Certain nontraditional exports are eligible for tax rebates (reintegro and reembolso) or drawbacks. Many products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportation) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on index values. The tax must be paid before shipment of the merchandise or within the following 30 days when there is a bank aval that guarantees its payment. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the freight. Certain other taxes on specific exports are also levied. These include a 2 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the National Institute for Agricultural Technology, on exports of agricultural and livestock products. Many exports, particularly nontraditional exports, are eligible for export incentives of various kinds. The Central Bank has established a system of special financing, to be granted to Argentine exporters through banks, with a view to promoting certain ex- ports of goods and services. The National Export Credit Insurance Commission provides credit insur- ance for exports of capital goods and consumer durable goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles must be surren- dered in the financial market within 30 days of receipt. ARGENTINA Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins. Capital Exchange proceeds from capital inflows received by residents must be surrendered in the financial market within 30 days of receipt. There are no limitations on inward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Outward capital transfers are restricted. Argentine "External Bonds" may be exported freely. Sales of ex- change in connection with investments, placements, or deposits within Argentina or abroad require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Argentine industrial or commercial firms require the authorization of the Cen- tral Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. For- eign borrowing by the public sector is regulated by Decree-Law No. 19328 of October 29, 1971. The former Foreign Investment Law (Decree-Law No. 19151 of July 30, 1971) provided that all new for- eign investments must have government approval and must be registered. Profits and dividends could then be remitted from the end of the first year of operation. The firms concerned were permitted to receive domestic short-term credit up to 50 per cent of their registered capital and accumulated reserves; this limitation did not apply to export credit. Foreign companies estab- lished in Argentina prior to the promulgation of the law were required to register their capital in the investment register in order to be eligible for remittances of profits and dividends or for repatriation of capital. Implement- ing regulations were contained in Decree No. 2400 of April 27, 1972. A new Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 20557 of November 7, 1973, implemented by Decree No. 413/74 of February 22, 1974) provides that all new foreign investment must be made under the terms of a contract negotiated with the "Implementing Author- ity." The law distinguishes, according to the degree of foreign ownership, between national, mixed, and for- eign companies. In the case of companies with 51 per cent or more foreign participation, the contract must be approved by the Congress; for companies with between 20 per cent and 51 per cent foreign capital, the contract needs approval by the President. Repatriation of capi- tal may not take place until at least five years after the investment was made, and the annual amount of repa- triation must not exceed 20 per cent of the capital eligible for repatriation. No repatriation of capital is permitted if it endangers the continued existence of the firm. Each contract establishes a maximum limit of domestic short-term indebtedness, and no long-term domestic indebtedness may normally occur. Remittances abroad of profits and dividends are lim- ited to 12.5 per cent or a rate exceeding by 4 percentage points the rate for time deposits of 180 days in the foreign country concerned, whichever is higher, calcu- lated on the basis of the foreign capital eligible for 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA repatriation. Existing foreign and mixed companies in Argentina may remain subject to their previous regula- tions or negotiate a contract under the new law. How- ever, if they choose the former option, their remittances of profits and dividends become subject to a special transfer tax varying with the annual amount of the remittance as a percentage of foreign capital invested. Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in Argentina to institutions and houses authorized to deal in foreign exchange, but the regula- tions permitting nonbank residents to buy gold coins and bars from these firms are in suspense. Imports of gold must be settled through the financial market. Im- ports by industrial users are subject to a statistical du ty of 6/10 of 1 per cent, and those by others are subject in addition to sales tax. Exports of gold may be carried out by institutions and houses authorized to engage in exchange transactions; they require the prior approval of the Central Bank and the proceeds must be received in convertible currencies. Changes during 1974 During the year, the buying and selling rates in the commercial market and in the financial market were maintained unchanged, as was the mixing rate applica- ble to certain imports and exports. January 1. Resolution No. 1588 increased the sales taxes on imports by 2 percentage points. January 1. The special tax on exports of agricultural and livestock products was increased from 1.75 per cent to 2 per cent (Decree-Law No. 20340 of May 3, 1973). January 9. Decree No. 56 /74 granted export subsi- dies of 10 per cent on apples and pears, with effect from January 11. January 10. Proceeds from exports to Western Eu- rope, Canada, and Japan could again be accepted in U.S. dollars (Central Bank Circular R.C. 487). January 11. All imports that were exempted by spe- cial authorization from the temporary import bans had to be settled entirely at the financial rate (Circular R.C. 488). January 15. Decree No. 1089/73 of September 11, 1973 extended un t il the end of 1977 the import prohibi- tions established by Decrees Nos. 7250 /72 (as amended) and 2118 /71 (as amended). January 18. Several import products were exempted from the 180-day deferred payment requirement. January 20. Decree No. 330/74 lifted the suspension of exports of animal fat and milk fat introduced on August 27, 1973. The Ministry of Economy was autho- rized to limit the volume exported. January 24. The tax on fresh f ru it exports was re- moved (Decree No. 273/74). 38 January 24. Exports of meat meal and bone meal with a protein content higher than 45 per cent were suspended (Decree No. 274/74). January 25. Decree No. 96 of January 14, together with implementing regulations in Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 98 of January 18 and Central Bank Circular R.C. 489 of January 25, established an op- tional scheme whereby foreign exchange for the pay- ment of the f.o.b. value of specified imports (certain raw materials and intermediate goods) could be bought en- tirely in the commercial market instead of at the mixing rate (i.e., 26 per cent of the amounts concerned at the commercial rate and 74 per cent at the financial rate). A special charge, set individually for each eligible prod- uct, had to be paid to the Treasury; the charge was calculated to keep the customs value of each product at its June 1973 level. Products benefiting from this option would have to be cleared from customs within 45 days of their arrival. The scheme had retroactive effect for goods shipped after September 15, 1973 and not yet paid for. The overall amount of imports to be admitted under the scheme was to be established by the Central Bank. Among the products affected were industrial raw materials such as chemicals, rubber, and wood, as well as certain steel products. The special charges were phased out during the second quarter of 1974. January 25. A temporary exemption from advance import deposit requirements was granted, in conjunc- tion with deferred payments (180 days or more), for goods exempted from the deferred payment require- ment. Similarly exempted were imports eligible for pay- ment entirely at the commercial rate (Circular R.C. 489) but for which that option was not utilized. January 25. The National Grain Board was given exclusive rights over the purchase of sunflower seed, as well as over the purchase and export of surplus sun- flower oil from the 1973/74 crop (Decree No. 296/74). January 28. Imports of certain types of wood could no longer be settled at the commercial rate. January 29. Exports were suspended of all products eligible for import payment at the commercial rate, and of several related products (Decree No. 329/74). January 30. Exports of frozen chicken were sus- pended (Decree No. 336/74). January 30. Exports of certain pig meats were sus- pended (Decree No. 335/74). January 30. The conditions for export of specified oil cakes were changed. For each unit of volume sold for domestic production of poultry feed, three units could be exported. The export tax on these oil cakes was reduced from 38 per cent to 20 per cent (Decree No. 334/74). February 13. Three cooperation and supply agree- ments were signed with the U.S.S.R. Subsequently it was announced that the U.S.S.R. would extend a line of credit of US$600 million. February 21. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 285 added a number of products to the list of goods eligible for import entirely at the commercial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rate. One product was deleted from that list. The appli- cation of official import prices was suspended for im- ports eligible for the commercial rate (Circular R.C. 492 of March 5). February 21. A 25 per cent exchange refund on ex- ports of apples and pears was authorized (Decree No. 613). Export taxes on Virginia-type tobacco were removed (Decree No. 582). February 22. Decree No. 413/74 implementing Law No. 20557 was issued. Existing and new foreign invest- ments in Argentina had to be registered with the Regis- ter for Foreign Investments; new investments required the prior approval of the State Secretariat for the Pro- gramming and Coordination of the Economy. For ex- isting companies which elected to remain subject to the previous foreign investment legislation, remittances of profits and dividends would bear a special tax varying between 20 per cent and 40 per cent (see May 20, be- low). (Law No. 20575 was regulated by Decree No. 414/74 of February 20.) March 1. Decree No. 680 authorized the export of sheepskins during 1974. March 1. Decree No. 682 reduced or abolished ex- port taxes on various types of beef and beef products. March 8. Decree No. 751 regulated Law No. 20545 and provided that imports of capital goods would nor- mally be permitted only if there was no local produc- tion. March 29. The regime under which certain imports could be settled entirely at the commercial rate was suspended. April 1. Exports of the following were suspended: iron ore, manganese, chrome, various kinds of polyeth- ylene and polypropylene, wood pulp, jute sacking, thermal copper, crude nickel, and unroasted coffee beans. April 3. The regime under which certain imports could be settled entirely at the commercial rate was reinstated. Nineteen items, however, were taken off the list of eligible commodities (Circular R.C. 494). April 16. Export duties on dried hides and calf skins were reduced from 46 per cent to 25 per cent. April 19. Decree No. 1217 extended until May 10 the deadline by which foreign companies were to regis- ter their investments in Argentina. (Decree No. 1796 of June 11 extended the deadline to July 1.) April 24. Resolution No. 43 established the method for calculating the level of imports that would be autho- rized, based on sales or consumption of imported goods in the previous 4 or 12 months. April 25. The National Grain Board suspended ex- ports of linseed oil. April 30. Export taxes on all types of wool were abolished and exchange rebates of 9, 12, and 18 per cent on exports of various types of wool were autho- rized (Resolution No. 627). May 9. Decree No. 1387 created an Industrial Sup- ply Office (Oficina de Abastacemiento de Insumos In- dustriales). It was empowered to authorize the import ARGENTINA of certain essential raw materials; when it issued an authorization, no declaracion jurada was required. It could also import for its own account. May 20. Decree No. 1675 provided that exports of meat, meat extracts, and meat offal were to be made only by companies responsible for the processing. May 20. The Central Bank announced that no appli- cations for the establishment of new foreign exchange agencies would be considered before December 31, 1975. May 20. Decree No. 1623 imposed a tax of 20-40 per cent on remitted profits and dividends of companies opting not to comply with the new Foreign Investment Law. The tax became payable on May 24. May 22. Decree No. 1576 authorized the issue on May 15 of the seventh series of U.S. dollar-denomi- nated External Bonds. These could be used for the transfer of overdue dividends, profits, royalties, etc.; such foreign obligations could, however, be transferred through the financial market in amounts up to US$5,000 (Circular R.C. 495 of June 3). June 5. Raw cocoa was excluded from the optional exchange rate regime of Circular No. 489 (Circular R.C. 496). June 11. Decree No. 1796 amended Articles 35 and 51 of Decree No. 413/74 (the new Foreign Investment Law) and postponed until July 1 the beginning of the period fixed by Article 2 of Decree No. 1217/74. June 11. Priority imports were exempted from cus- toms duty. June 12. Certain imports were exempted from the prior deposit requirement, and import duties on certain goods were suspended. July. Exports of petrochemicals, cement, paper pack- aging, some metal products, and certain foodstuffs were suspended. July. The export tax on corn was reduced from 34 per cent to 8 per cent, and that on sorghum from 45 per cent to zero. August 2. The exchange allocations for private travel were raised to US$50 a person a day, up to US$1,500 a person a trip (with half of these amounts for children), or for neighboring countries US$15 a person a day, subject to a limit of US$450 a person a trip. Previously, the limits for each trip were US$900 and US$300, re- spectively. The exchange allocation for study abroad was raised from US$300 to US$500 a month, and that for family assistance from US$50 to US$100 a month for each donor and beneficiary. The allocation for med- ical treatment abroad also was increased (Circular R.C. 501). August 5. Central Bank Communication No. 98 stated that the Bank would consider favorably any re- quests for exemption from the regulations imposed in May 1972, which established a limit of 180 days from the date of the bill of lading to the time of payment for imports. The Bank would allow cash payment for all imports from LAFTA and from other developing 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA less than countries, and for imports valued at US$10,000 from any country. August 7. A regulation of January 1974 was revoked, which had established that 50 per cent of raw material imports could not be shipped until 90 days after sub- mission of the declaration jurada. Henceforth, 50 per cent of the payments for such imports was to be made 180 days after shipment, and 50 per cent not earlier than 270 days after submission of the declaration jurada. August. Resolution No. 927 banned the export of copper, aluminum, and tin products. August. Exports of certain iron and steel products used in the construction indus try were banned (Minis- try of Economy Resolution No. 1170). August. Resolution No. 964 established Septem- ber 15 as the deadline by which investors domiciled abroad had to register their holdings of shares in Ar- gentine companies when having a nominal value of $a 1 million or less, and September 6 as the corre- sponding deadline where such holdings exceeded either $a 1 million or 5 per cent of the capital of the company concerned. September. Arrangements were announced whereby foreign owners of shares in Argentine companies could sell the shares to Argentine residents and transfer the fu ll sales proceeds abroad through the financial market. October 18. Circular R.C. 508 specified provisions governing both the transfer abroad by foreign compa- nies of fre ight charges paid in pesos in Argentina and the remittances made by Argentine companies to cover their expenses abroad for international shipping. From November 4, bills of lading must specify whether fre ight charges were paid in Argentina or abroad. October 28. A Law on the Transfer of Foreign Tech- nology came in to force upon publication in the Official Gazette. Contracts relating to patents, licenses, trade marks, etc., henceforth had to be approved by, and registered with, the National Register of Licensing Contracts and Transfers of Technology. October 31. The deadline expired by which foreign owners of shares in Argentine companies whose total nominal value did not exceed $a 1 million and did not exceed 5 per cent of the capital of the company con- cerned had to declare their holdings to the Register of Foreign Investments. November 4. Importers had to submit evidence of customs clearance before banks could effect import payments (Central Bank Telephone Communication No. 3100). November 8. Exports of most edible oils were sus- pended. December 20. Circular R.C. 511 announced new rules for settlements under reciprocal credit agree- ments, to come into effect on January 1, 1975. December. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 64 lifted the ban on exports of dairy products. December. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 67 lifted the ban on exports of linseed oil. December. Ministry of Economy Resolution No. 91 eliminated duties on exports of many meat products and established rebates on such exports. NOTES 1 With effect from March 3, 1975, the commercial rate was changed to $a 10 per US$1, the financial rate to $a 15.05/15.10 per US$1, and the mixing rate to $a 13.03/13.06 per US$1. 2 Increased to $a 4.00 per US$1 with effect from Janua- ry 3, 1975. 3 Increased to 100 per cent with effect from January 31, 1975. 4 At the end of 1974, most imports were ruled by Circular R.C. 446 (and complementing circulars) in conjunction with Decree No. 7250 /72. 5 Increased for certain nonessential imports to 100 per cent, w i th effect from February 3, 1975. 6 Reduced to US$100 a person a trip with effect from Janua ry 3, 1975. 7 Increased to $a 4.00 per US$1 w i th effect from Janu- ary 3, 1975. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA1 (Position on December 31 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.09578 grams of fine gold per Aus- tralian Dollar. However, on September 25, 1974, the former fixed link with the U.S. dollar at the parity relationship was discontinued; the exchange rate for the Australian dollar is determined by changes in an aver- age of foreign currency values weighted in accordance with trading significance to Australia. The Reserve Bank of Australia determines the exchange rate daily to ensure that the weighted average exchange value re- mains constant. The rate is expressed in terms of the U.S. dollar. On December 31, 1974, the Reserve Bank's middle rate for the U.S. dollar was $A 1 = US$1.3270, and the official limits at or within which banks were to effect spot transactions with the public in U.S. dollars were US$1.3295 and US$1.3245 per $A 1. Banks are free to determine their own spot rates for all other currencies, including sterling; rates quoted are based on closing rates in London and New York. Forward exchange cover may be arranged through the authorized banks by residents for periods appropri- ate to the nature of the transaction in respect of most exchange risks arising out of trade transactions. For- ward exchange cover for transactions in certain invisi- bles of a noncapital nature may also be arranged. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to the trading banks in U.S. dollars and sterling. Banks act as princi- pals in all foreign currency transactions, both spot and forward, and are free to determine their own forward rates for all currencies; they are required to restrict their uncovered positions and not to carry excessive balances abroad. Australia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 1, 1965. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is determined by the Gov- ernment with the advice of the Department of the Trea- sury and of the Reserve Bank of Australia. The Reserve Bank administers the exchange control on behalf of the Australian Treasurer and delegates considerable discre- tionary powers to the trading banks authorized to han- dle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Cus- toms and Excise. Other departments are responsible for some policy aspects of controls on imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Where imports are invoiced in Australian dollars, payments may be made in Australian currency through the account of an overseas bank with a bank in Austra- lia, or in any foreign currency;2 if imports are invoiced in foreign currency, payment must be made in foreign currency. Proceeds from exports may be received in Australian currency from an account of an overseas bank with a bank in Australia, or in any foreign cur- rency. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of nonresidents are sub- ject to approval, which is granted in the same circum- stances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. Under current policy, the balance on an account held by any nonresident may be withdrawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts. Nonresidents may not borrow in Australia. Imports and Import Payments With the few exceptions mentioned below, goods may be imported freely without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. The latter normally must be made not later than six months after the arrival of the goods in Australia; consent to longer deferment is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Import licenses are required for the following: used, secondhand, or disposals machinery or equipment and parts therefor (earthmoving or excavating vehicles, ma- chinery, or equipment; tractors, road rollers, or material-handling equipment); disposals, used, or secondhand four-wheel drive vehicles (excluding pub- lic-service type passenger vehicles). In addition, import licenses are required for certain types of footwear and certain types of clothing from the Republic of China and Korea. Ships are treated as prohibited imports, and new or secondhand ships may only be imported with the written consent of the Minister for Transport. The treatment accorded to ships also applies to aircraft. In addition, import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, mainly for reasons of health, morals, or security, or to maintain quality stan- dards. In accordance with the relevant Resolutions of the UN Security Council, mandatory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but, with the exception of remittances to Rho- desia which are contrary to the UN sanctions, they are not restricted. The control operates primarily to pre- vent unauthorized capital transfers; in addition, remit- tances to the New Hebrides are subject to a screening procedure to ensure that no tax minimization transac- tions are involved. Applications for outward transfers 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA in connection with current invisibles are normally dealt with immediately by banks; no forms have to be filled out for amounts up to $A 2,000, and banks need not report these smaller transfers to the Reserve Bank. There is no limit on travel funds. Banks may approve up to $A 4,000 for each person in any 12 months for any kind of travel in any country; additional amounts may be obtained on application, provided that the ex- change control authorities are satisfied that the ex- change is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unauthorized capital transfer. Similarly, no limits are placed on remittances for family maintenance and gifts, but beyond certain amounts, applications must be referred to the exchange control authorities; such applications are treated liberally. Payment to overseas suppliers of services must be made no later than six months after the date when payment is contractually due; consent to longer defer- ment is given only where it is established that longer periods are normal commercial practice. Dividends and interest due to overseas residents must be paid within one month of the date on which they become payable. Foreign exchange is not normally provided to enable residents to take out personal life insurance with for- eign insurers. Travelers who are not residents of Aus- tralia may take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes within six months of entry, provided that they brought the notes into Australia. Other travelers may take out up to $A 100 in Australian currency, without special authorization; of this amount, up to $A 4 may be in coins.3 Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all commodities, unless specifically exempted, requires an export license in terms of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, to ensure that the full proceeds are received in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank; the approved period is within six months prior to or after the date of exportation, but where the value of the goods exceeds $A 10,000 the approved period for re- ceipt prior to the date of exportation is one month, longer periods being allowed only where the prepay- ment is in accordance with normal commercial prac- tice. To assist supervision, there is a further condition (in the case of export licenses covering goods exported by ship) that all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or to a trading bank acting as its agent. Under the Customs (Prohibited Exports) Regulations the export of specified goods may be prohibited abso- lutely or may be permitted subject to prescribed condi- tions. The controls are available for a variety of purposes. Exports of minerals in raw or semiprocessed form are subject to controls to ensure that export prices are at a reasonable level in relation to export prices in other countries. Controls have also been utilized to ensure adequate supplies to meet domestic require- 42 ments (e.g., agricultural products, primarily stock foods and fertilizers, and some minerals and metals), to enable Australia to comply with obligations under in- ternational agreements, and to assist the orderly mar- keting of primary products. Provision also exists for government control over the export of defense material. In accordance with UN Resolution No. 253 of 1968, Australia enforces trade sanctions against Rhodesia. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in foreign currencies do not have to be surrendered, but may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes for travel expenditure. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require ap- proval. Lending overseas by residents is normally not permitted other than in association with direct invest- ments. Proposals for direct investment overseas are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transfers abroad for direct investment involving the export of a signifi- cant measure of Australian managerial or technical skills are readily approved. Approval is also readily given for all types of investment which promote Aus- tralian exports or protect existing Australian invest- ments abroad. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. Foreign securities owned by Australian residents need not be surrendered; approval is given to residents to reinvest the sales proceeds from foreign securities for their own account in other foreign securities, but they are not normally permitted to trade among themselves in foreign securities except those is- sued off an Australian register. The export of securities and certain transactions in foreign securities are subject to approval. Applications by resident individuals to invest abroad in amounts up to $A 10,000 in any 12-month period normally are readily approved; institutional investors and public companies can expect to receive permission to make investments abroad of up to $A 1 million in any 12-month period. Applications for investments in larger amounts may be approved in special circum- stances. Eligible investments include portfolio invest- ments abroad in stocks and shares and investments in real estate; they do not include investments in loans or other fixed-interest securities. When exchange control approval is being sought, investment in and other transactions of a capital nature with countries desig- nated as tax havens require the production of a certifi- cate from the Commissioner of Taxation to the effect that tax evasion or avoidance is not involved. Approval is required for residents to borrow Austra- lian or foreign currency from any nonresident, or to incur a liability to a nonresident; the coverage of the controls over overseas borrowings includes not only formal contracts to borrow but also indirect forms of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution borrowings and transactions having a similar effect on capital inflow. In addition, residents are required to obtain approval to draw, issue, or negotiate any bill of exchange or promissory note, to enter into contracts (except for the purchase of goods) or to acknowledge debts so that actual or contingent rights to payments, any other valuable consideration, or services are cre- ated in favor of any nonresident, or to allot or transfer securities to, or register securities in the name of, any nonresident. Controls have been established over bor- rowings (other than for trade transactions on normal trade credit terms) from overseas lenders of foreign or Australian currency in amounts exceeding $A 100,000 a borrower in any 12-month period. There is an em- bargo on such borrowings which are repayable, or carry options to repay, in less than 6 months. Under the terms of the variable deposit requirement scheme (at present suspended), persons receiving approval for for- eign borrowings for periods in excess of the embargo period are required to lodge a proportion of the amount drawn with the Reserve Bank, through their own banks, as a nonassignable, noninterest-bearing deposit in local currency. Deposits are held for the period of the borrowing and are refunded pro rata as loans are re- paid. The borrowing restrictions, including the suspended deposit requirement, also are applicable to acceptance of deposits from overseas residents by a wide range of financial intermediaries. The borrowing embargo also applies to subscriptions by nonresidents to new issues of fixed-interest securities having a maturity of two years or less, and to purchases by nonresidents of exist- ing securities having two years or less to run to matu- rity. The variable deposit requirement scheme (at present suspended) also applies to subscriptions to new issues of fixed-interest securities maturing in a period in excess of the embargo period.4 For the time being, Australian banks are required to sight specific Reserve Bank approval for all inward capital remittances of $A 50,000 or more. Increases in indebtedness through intercompany accounts which could have the effect of circumventing the borrowing controls are prohibited. Inward equity investment requires exchange control approval. The Government's general policy on such investment is flexible and there are, for example, no general mandatory levels of Australian equity in new ventures. However, the Government has a firm policy objective of securing the maximum practicable levels of ownership and control of Australian resources and in- dustries and ensuring that foreign capital inflows are associated with productive investment which adds to Australia's real resources. The policy is being applied in a pragmatic way with all cases being considered on their merits. There are some special areas in foreign investments to which the Government has given particular atten- tion. These include the important energy minerals where the policy objective is full Australian ownership. Under announced guidelines for investment in the min- AUSTRALIA ing industry in general, the Government has indicated that while Australian participation is sought in miner- als exploration, it is more important to secure a high degree of participation at the production stage. All enterprises, Australian and foreign, engaged in the min- ing industry are required to conform to Australia's national interest and the Government stands ready to use its powers, including export and exchange control powers, to achieve that objective. However, the promo- tion of Australian equity and control over resources and industry in the mining sector is viewed as a longer-term objective.The Government has discouraged foreign interests from making significant investments in real estate, particularly for subdivisions for resale for residential purposes and for development in central city areas. In the fringe banking area, the Government has indi- cated its view that, generally, there would be little bene- fit in allowing additional institutions to be established by foreign interests. The Government has also made clear its general objective of preventing increases in foreign ownership and control of existing financial in- stitutions. Furthermore, the Government has said it regards insurance as a "key" industry, and has stated its view that it does not generally favor the establish- ment of new life and general insurance companies, par- ticularly the establishment of new foreign-controlled companies. The long-standing controls over inward in- vestment in the fields of banking, civil aviation, and radio and television are being continued. On December 10, 1974 the Government announced a new policy for the control of foreign take-overs. The new policy will enable the Government to examine all take-overs of Australian businesses by foreigners and to prohibit such take-overs found to be against the na- tional interest. It will cover transactions in shares, as- sets (including mineral rights), and certain other classes of transactions which are means of effecting take-overs and have been used to circumvent the existing foreign take-over legislation. Transactions between foreigners will be treated in the same way as transactions between Australians and foreigners. Pending the introduction of new legislation, the pol- icy has been put into effect on an administrative basis, and the existing Companies (Foreign Take-Overs) Act, which covers only take-overs effected by acquisition of shares, has been extended until the end of 1975. The existing Act draws in notifications of proposals which, on examination, are shown either not to be foreign take-over proposals or to raise relatively insignificant issues. Within one month of receipt of a notification, the Government is required to decide (1) whether the proposal notified is in fact a foreign take-over proposal, and (2) if it is a foreign take-over proposal, whether it raises issues which require further consideration. If the Government decides either that a foreign take-over is not involved or that the proposal does not raise issues which require further consideration, then consideration of the proposal under the provisions of 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA the foreign take-over legislation is termination. If the Government decides that a foreign take-over would be involved and that further consideration is required, the proposal is referred for detailed investigation and re- port within three months. Upon receipt of the detailed investigation report, the Government determines whether the proposal would be against the national interest. The main criterion used in judging a foreign take-over is whether it would lead to sufficient net eco- nomic benefits to jus t ify the increase in foreign control of the industry concerned. There are no restrictions on domestic bank credit to overseas-owned or overseas-controlled companies in Australia. Gold Residents must surrender to the Reserve Bank all gold coming into their possession in Australia with the exception of gold coins the gold content value of which does not exceed $A 50 and gold lawfully acquired for use in a profession or trade; gold producers in Papua New Guinea are exempt from this requirement. Newly mined gold acquired by the Reserve Bank is made available at its official buying price of $A 32.25 a fine ounce to an association of gold producers for sale at free market prices to local industrial users or overseas purchasers. Subject to certain conditions, domestic gold producers are eligible for subsidy under the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act; however, at present gold prices the Act is virtually inoperative. Im- ports of gold are not restricted but imported gold be- comes subject to delivery to the Reserve Bank. Exports of gold require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Gold jewelry is not subject to acquisition by the Reserve Bank and imports of such items are unrestricted. Ex- ports of gold jewelry exceeding $A 250 in value require an export license. Travelers require an export license if taking out of Australia certain specified goods, includ- ing gold jewelry, in excess of a total value of $A 10,000 or when the gold content value of any one article ex- ceeds $A 1,000. Changes during 1974 January 1. A revised and fur ther liberalized system of tariff preferences for imports from developing countries came into effect. January 22. The Prime Minister announced certain measures in accordance with the Government's policy of encouraging Australian direct investment in devel- oping countries where such investment was acceptable to the countries concerned. February 4. The Government announced substantial reductions, effective immediately, in import duty on domestic appliances and heating and cooling equip- ment. They were additional to the 25 per cent cut of July 1973. Commonwealth preferences on imports of domestic appliances were eliminated. 44 February 27. It was announced that quota restric- tions on imports of certain types of clothing would be abolished, that Australia would accede to the GATT Arrangement on Textiles, and that a Textiles Authority would be established under the Industries Assistance Commission. April 10. The Government announced that the cus- toms regulations had been amended to extend the exist- ing export controls on copper and copper alloys to cover goods consisting wholly or principally of copper and /or copper alloy, residues, and other substances obtained from processing copper sulphates and copper oxide. April 11. New arrangements for imports of handi- crafts were announced. April 22. The Commonwealth Banks Act ceased to apply to Papua New Guinea. May 28. The amount of money that could be remit- ted overseas by postal money orders was increased from $A 50 to $ A 100 a person a week. May 30. The Reserve Bank modified its policy with respect to its forward exchange transactions with banks. The discount of 4 per cent per annum on for- ward purchases of foreign currencies was reduced to zero. The basic forward buying price for U.S. dollars was continued at a discount on the spot rate of 4 per cent per annum. Commercial banks continued to have discretion in determining forward exchange rates for transactions with their customers. May 30. Australia subscribed to the OECD Declara- tion on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transactions. June 12. The Government announced an extension to the system of screening foreign investment proposals to include those which came under notice through the exchange control mechanism and did not involve the take-over of Australian businesses. Existing procedures under which applications for exchange control ap- proval for foreign investment proposals were processed through the Reserve Bank were not affected. June 17. Traders seeking forward cover in respect of an eligible transaction were required to apply to a bank within seven days of incurring an exchange risk in re- spect of that transaction. Previously, cover could be written at any time after an exchange risk had been incurred. June 25. The noninterest-bearing nonassignable de- posit required on borrowings for periods greater than two years from overseas lenders was reduced from 33V3 per cent to 25 per cent. The embargo on foreign borrowings with a maturity of two years or less re- mained in force. July 1. An export incentives scheme announced in December 1973 came into effect, to operate for a period of five years. July 9. Import licensing on certain clothing from the Republic of China was announced. August 8. The noninterest-bearing nonassignable de- posit required on borrowings for periods greater than ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution two years from overseas lenders was reduced from 25 per cent to 5 per cent. The embargo on foreign borrow- ings with a maturity of two years or less remained in force. August/September. Export restraint agreements were negotiated with Hong Kong, India, and the People's Republic of China covering a wide range of knitted and woven goods. Under these agreements, exports of the specified goods to Australia would be stabilized in terms of the import levels established in the 12 months to April 30, 1974. September 17. It was announced in the budget that companies with overseas borrowings would be liable to a tax on foreign exchange gains. September 18. Licensing requirements were imposed on imports from Korea covering a range of knitted clothing. September 25. The fixed relationship between the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar was discontinued; exchange rates would, until further notice, be deter- mined daily in a manner which ensured that the weighted average value for the Australian dollar re- mained constant. The par value remained unchanged. The middle rate of $A 1 = US$1.3090 established from September 25 represented a depreciation of 12 per cent vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar. September 25. The Reserve Bank's official price for gold was raised from $A 28.35 to $A 32.25 a fine ounce. September 30. Australia's interim agreement with New Zealand guaranteeing the tariff preference mar- gins in each other's markets was extended for a further six months. Motor vehicles and components continued to be excluded from the provisions of the agreement. October 18. Temporary import restrictions were im- posed on certain types of footwear. Such imports would be limited during October 1, 1974~September 30, 1975 to a level 20 per cent greater than imports of each item in the year ended June 30, 1973. October 30. Legislation was introduced to reconsti- tute the Export Payments Insurance Corporation as the Export Finance Insurance Corporation (EFIC), to op- erate as an export financing institution as well as a credit and investment insurer and guarantor. EFIC's new function would supplement existing financing fa- cilities for the provision of export finance for medi- um-term and long-term sales of Australian capital goods. EFIC commenced its export financing activities on February 1, 1975. October 31. The Minister for Minerals and Energy announced details of the Government's policy on the development of Australia's uranium resources. November 3. The Government announced guidelines for foreign equity participation and control in the min- ing industry. While the Government sought Australian participation in minerals exploration, it was considered more important to secure a high degree of Australian participation at the production, rather than the explo- ration stage. All enterprises, Australian or foreign, en- AUSTRALIA gaged in the mining industry, were required to conform with Australia's national interest; the mechanism for achieving this objective was the residual powers of ex- port and exchange controls. Where important existing ventures were under foreign control, the promotion of Australian equity and control over resources and in- dustries in the mining sector was viewed as a longer-term objective. November 11. The noninterest-bearing nonassignable deposit requirement on overseas borrowings for more than two years was suspended. Concurrently, the em- bargo on overseas borrowings with a maturity of two years or less was modified to apply only to overseas borrowings of less than six months. Modifications to the controls over indirect forms of borrowings and transactions having a similar effect on capital inflow would be announced later. (It was announced on Janu- ary 14, 1975 that the minimum period for which depos- its by nonresidents could be accepted by financial intermediaries had been reduced from two years to six months. There was also a reduction, from two years to six months, in the minimum period to maturity in re- spect of nonresidents' purchases of fixed-interest secu- rities. These restrictions applied where the funds tendered by or on behalf of overseas residents were remitted to Australia on or after February 2, 1973. However, they no longer applied to investments by nonresidents aggregating less than $A 10,000 in any 12-month period. Certain other conditions affecting in- direct forms of borrowing and transactions having a similar effect on capital inflow remained in effect. These were (1) the provision whereby brokers, solicitors, etc., could hold for a maximum of one month, funds brought in for settlement of specific share acquisitions, etc., subject to the submission of quarterly reports to the Reserve Bank on their holdings of nonresidents' funds; and (2) the restrictions on deferment of pay- ments due to overseas residents in respect of imports, services, dividends and interest, prepayment for ex- ports, and increases in indebtedness through intercom- pany accounts.) November 13. Customs duties on imports of motor vehicles were increased by 10 percentage points. It was announced that the additional duties would be re- moved when imports of completely built-up vehicles were reduced to 20 per cent or less of total registrations and maintained that proportion for a specified period. (With effect from February 1, 1975 temporary quota restrictions were imposed on imports of completely as- sembled passenger automobiles and light commercial motor vehicles.) December. An export restraint agreement was nego- tiated with Korea covering imports of knitted clothing. The voluntary restraints replaced the system of quotas imposed on such imports from Korea on Septem- ber 18. December 3. Tariff quotas were introduced on im- ports of acrylic yarns, knitted or crocheted fabrics of 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA man-made fibers, and towels. The quotas would be effective for periods of up to two years. December 9. The Prime Minister announced a pro- gram of action for 1975 aimed at reducing pressures on certain industries arising out of import competition. December 9. Short-term tariff quotas were an- nounced on woven man-made fiber fabrics, polyester, polyamide yarns, and certain clothing items. December 10. The Treasurer announced that the Companies (Foreign Take-Overs) Act of November 2, 1972 was being extended until December 31, 1975 and that more comprehensive legislation to control foreign take-overs of Australian businesses would be intro- duced, which would cover not only share transactions, as at present, but also other assets, including mineral rights. In addition, the new legislation would cover transactions between foreigners in the same way as those between Australians and foreigners, and would close a number of loopholes disclosed by the operation of the existing legislation. Take-overs involving assets of less than $A 1 million would not be affected. December 23. The Banking Act, 1974 and certain sections of the Taxation Administration Act, 1974 came into effect. The Banking Act, 1974 provided for the repeal of Section 39 of the Banking Act, 1959-73 (the exchange control regulation-making power), and the insertion of new provisions designed principally to broaden the scope of exchange control. It validated those acts, transactions, etc., which might have been declared invalid or unexpressible by reason only that the proper exchange control authority had not been obtained. (Such validation does not preclude the right of the authorities to prosecute persons for not having obtained the necessary approval.) It also provided for the extraterritorial application of the regulations. In addition, the Banking Act, 1974, in conjunction with the Taxation Administration Act, 1974, provided a more comprehensive legislative basis for taxation screening arrangements with regard to acts and trans- actions between Australian residents and countries des- ignated as tax havens. (The countries designated as tax havens are the Bahamas, Bermuda, the British Solomon Islands Protectorate, the British Channel Islands, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Gibraltar, Grenada, Hong Kong, the Isle of Man, Liberia, Liech- tenstein, Luxembourg, Nauru, Netherlands Antilles, Panama, Switzerland, and Tonga.) The existing tax screening of both capital and current transactions with the New Hebrides continued to operate, with certain minor exceptions. December 23. A number of amendments to the Bank- ing (Foreign Exchange) Regulations, primarily of a consequential nature, with regard to the above amend- ments to the Banking Act, 1959-73, came into opera- tion. NOTES 1 The mone tary area of Australia includes Papua New Guinea. Papua New Guinea operates its own exchange con- trol through the Bank of Papua New Guinea. Policy generally is consistent with that of Australia. In addition, reciprocal measures are in force in Australia and Papua New Guinea so that, effectively, exchange control does not operate between them. The Australian dollar circulates in a number of countries, including the New Hebrides, the British Solomon Islands Protectorate, Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony, and the Republic of Nauru. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Australian dollar. 3 On February 13, 1975 the limits became $A 250 in Aus- tralian currency notes plus $A 5 in coins. 4 With effect f rom January 14, 1975, the minimum period for which deposits by nonresidents could be made with Aus- tralian financial ins t i tu t ions was reduced from 2 years to 6 months. Nonresidents henceforth could subscribe to new is- sues of fixed-interest securities having a ma tur i ty of 6 months or more and could purchase existing securities having 6 months or more to run to ma tu r i ty. The restrictions on non- resident deposits and nonresident investment in fixed-interest securities no longer applied to a nonresident whose invest- ment aggregated less than $A 10,000 in any 12-month pe- riod. 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0359059 gram of fine gold per Austrian Schilling. Austria has notified the Fund that the rate for the Austrian schilling is S 1 = SDR 0.0423597, but no announced margins are main- tained for any currency. In practice, and without hav- ing assumed any formal obligations in this respect, the authorities observe margins of 4Y2 per cent either side of cross-parities for currencies participating in the Eu- ropean common margins arrangement. On Decem- ber 31, 1974, the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were S 17.08 and S 17.18, respectively, per US$1. Forward premiums and dis- counts are, in principle, left to the interplay of market forces. Austria formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Austrian National Bank administers exchange control and issues exchange licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through Austrian banks authorized to implement the exchange control regulations. The customs issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and For- estry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with all countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Ac- counts. The exchange control regulations generally are based on the distinction between "multilateral member countries" (IMF or OECD members with which settle- ments take place in convertible currencies) and "mul- tilateral nonmember countries" (other countries with which settlements are made in convertible currencies). Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts, Interim Accounts for nonresidents residing in member countries of the IMF or the OECD, and Blocked Accounts for nonresi- dents residing in other countries. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of gold coins or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, provided that the con- version serves to make a current payment to a resident, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or individual authoriza- tion. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, who must, however, apply for individual licenses if they are to receive loans from nonresidents or if the nonresident's payment serves to finance direct investment in Austria, the purchase of Austrian securities in Austria, or the purchase of real estate in Austria. Balances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked and Interim Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. General licenses permit their use for payments for many current and some capital transactions. The transfer abroad of funds in Blocked and Interim Accounts is subject to an individual li- cense. In most cases licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Balances in Blocked Ac- counts exceed by far those in Interim Accounts. Nonresidents may also maintain nonresident ac- counts in convertible foreign currencies. These ac- counts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts, and subject to the same conditions. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licensing and may be imported from any country without quantita- tive restriction. All goods included in the Annex re- quire licenses. Most of these goods are free of quantitative restriction. For many goods licenses are granted by the customs, at the time of clearance, when they are imported from any country other than Rhode- sia.1 Nearly all imports from GATT countries, their associated territories, and some other countries2 are liberalized.3 Some nonagricultural imports are admit- ted under an automatic licensing procedure when origi- nating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, or Romania. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilat- eral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (barter). State trading covers tobacco in any form, ethyl alcohol, and salt. Global quotas apply to specified im- ports from GATT countries, except Czechoslovakia and Japan. Discretionary individual licensing is appli- cable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. Import licenses may not be granted for goods im- ported under compensation transactions, unless there is 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA no other way of settling payments; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains, milk and butter, and cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter and products from these animals for human consump- tion are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under the Agri- cultural Marketing Law. In principle, import licenses are issued only to im- porters who have received trade licenses. Licenses granted to new importers take into account the amount up to which the corresponding global quota has been utilized. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in con- vertible currencies do not require exchange licenses. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to con- clude transactions involving current invisibles with res- idents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Exceptions comprise certain transactions con- cerning transport, films, and insurance. As to transac- tions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of other countries, general licenses cover the majority of these (e.g., freight, commissions, and the cost of assembly and repairs); for the remaining trans- actions, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted after account is taken of certain consider- ations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases. Payments on account of generally authorized invisi- bles to nonresidents may be made freely, provided that no capital transfer is involved. Other payments abroad up to S 1,000 may be made freely and at any time. The remaining payments to "multilateral nonmember countries" for invisibles require special licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may buy exchange from authorized banks or take up as short-term advance from nonresidents in multilateral countries up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the Na- tional Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may ar- range for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transportation. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained from the competent ministry or, at the time of clearance, from the customs. Goods exported under compensation arrangements are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. For most other exports, li- 48 censes are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilat- eral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas es- tablished in accordance with such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims exceeding the equivalent of S 26,000 must be declared. Export proceeds may either be sur- rendered or be deposited in accounts with authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used freely for authorized payments abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared within eight'days from the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be depos- ited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accruing from exports. Per- sons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign banknotes and coins without limit. Capital Most inward capital transfers, most transactions that could lead to such inflows, and most borrowing from nonresidents are at present restricted. Public sec- tor borrowing abroad has been resumed. The acquisi- tion by nonresidents of Austrian securities, shares or participations in Austrian companies or firms, and Austrian real estate is subject to individual approval by the National Bank.4 At present, direct investments by nonresidents normally are permitted only when related to manufacturing, small business (except construction), or the importation and distribution of foreign goods. Loans and credits extended by nonresidents to resi- dents, including those in schillings from Free Schilling Accounts, at present require prior approval by the Na- tional Bank and normally are restricted. Approvals are granted particularly, but not exclusively, for (1) invest- ment credits for producing enterprises and (2) import and export finance. The granting of permissions for commercial credits to finance imports of consumer goods, especially passenger automobiles, is restricted. Only loans from nonresident relatives to residents up to S 260,000 a borrower a year are at present licensed freely. The short-term foreign assets and liabilities in con- vertible currencies of authorized banks are not subject to limitation, but any increase in their schilling liabili- ties to nonresidents over the level of April 30, 1974 is subject to the provisions of a gentlemen's agreement with the National Bank providing for a supplementary or minimum reserve requirement that sterilizes 75 per cent of such increases.5 Furthermore, the domestic credit institutions are not to repatriate their liquid for- eign currency balances or call in their foreign loans prior to maturity. A number of authorized banks are permitted to accept convertible currencies from abroad for onlending abroad at maturities of up to five years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The Austrian National Bank permits the transfer abroad of (1) proceeds from the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, and real estate in Austria) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants, and pay- ments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, in- heritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents may freely grant loans up to the equivalent of S 260,000 a resident lender each year to nonresident relatives. Residents are allowed, for purposes of direct invest- ment, to acquire participation rights in foreign compa- nies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individ- ually owned firms; earnings accruing from such invest- ment usually may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is intended for the personal use of the buyer within one year), to grant commercial or investment credits, to grant direct investment loans (provided that the resi- dent can actually exert influence on the management of the nonresident enterprise), and, provided that the pro- ceeds of the credit are not used within Austria, to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresidents life insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the three preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documenta- tion, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries that are members of the IMF or the OECD. Residents are allowed to purchase from nonresi- dents, without restriction, foreign securities issued in "multilateral member countries" and registered on stock exchanges6 and Austrian securities; for foreign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of securities listed on the Vienna stock exchange), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to nonresidents may be made in convertible currencies. Residents may sell for- eign securities and Austrian external bonds to nonresi- dents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies and, for securities deposited in accordance with the afore-mentioned provision with Austrian authorized banks, only through such banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the foreign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the foreign securi- ties by the debtor may be kept on account with an authorized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (excluding jewelry and medal- lions, which are considered jewelry) are governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Austrian National Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as defined AUSTRIA therein; the Bank has granted a number of general per- missions widely liberalizing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transactions with monetary authorities of other countries or with international financial institutions. The Bank has authorized credit institutions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell in Austria gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on behalf of their customers (including nonresidents); the prices are based on those for coins and unmanufac- tured gold in free markets abroad. A general license also permits other residents to purchase and sell among themselves, in Austria and against payment in schil- lings, gold coins that are not legal tender. The Mint releases certain types of gold coins (re- strikes) to authorized credit institutions for resale to the public. Residents may hold gold in any form, including bars, in Austria, and they may acquire in Austria any gold coins that are not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; furthermore, domestic trading between residents in gold with a fineness of less than 0.585 is unrestricted. With the exception of coins, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary authorities, autho- rized industrial users, dentists, and jewelers; the Mint, gold refiners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange among themselves gold in any form. Domes- tic sales of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at the general rate of 16 per cent. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import li- censes for gold imports (e.g., for gold sheets), the li- cense is either issued by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry, which usually grants any license applied for by industrial users, or by the cus- toms office concerned, which issues licenses automati- cally for certain gold imports within its competence. Where this law does not require an import license (e.g., for the import of gold bars), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank cover- ing the purchase of gold; such licenses are issued after consideration of the merits of each case. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authoriza- tion by the National Bank; the Bank has issued a gen- eral license permitting nonresident travelers to take out coins that are not legal tender up to a weight of 200 grams a person a trip, and allowing resident travelers to "multilateral member countries" to export such coins up to a value of S 1,000 a person a trip. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, ex- change, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jew- elry and of articles containing a minor amount of gold, such as watches, are liberalized, licenses being issued automatically by the customs; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Changes during 1974 During the year, public sector borrowing abroad was resumed. January 1. Following the expiration of the payments agreement with the German Democratic Republic, set- tlements with all countries took place in convertible currencies. The exchange control regulations hence- for th distinguished two groups of countries, "multilat- eral member countries" and "multilateral nonmember countries"; the exchange control concept of "bilateral countries" ceased to be applied for the time being. January 1. In accordance with the free trade agree- ment with the EEC, import duties on industrial prod- ucts of EEC origin generally were reduced by a fur ther 10 per cent. January 1. Additional tariff reductions under Aus- tria's scheme of generalized tariff preferences for im- ports from developing countries came into effect. January L The validity of all existing unilateral tariff reductions (introduced under the price containment program that began in 1969) was carried over into 1974. January L The suspension of the liberalization of inward capital movements was extended until June 30, 1974 by Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 8 / 73 of December 14, 1973. January L A new general license regarding the sale of domestic securities to nonresidents replaced the cor- responding general license in effect since October 1, 1973. A new global quota of S 275 million was set for the first half of 1974. March L The reserve requirement under the gentle- men's agreement of August 18, 1971 between the Na- tional Bank and the credit institutions (which called, inter alia, for interest-free deposits with the National Bank equal to 75 per cent of any increase in banks' schilling liabilities to nonresidents) was eased by a change in the base date for the calculation of the de- posit requirement, from August 13, 1971 to Decem- ber 31, 1973. May 15. The National Bank concluded a gentlemen's agreement providing for a continuation of the restric- tions on the expansion of domestic bank credit, which, however, would be relaxed from June 30 in two ways —the base date was moved up from December 31, 1973 to June 30, 1974, and new credits in foreign cur- rencies granted to nonbank residents would be ex- cluded from the calculation. May 17. The margins observed by the National Bank, autonomously and without formal obligation, in respect of the currencies participating in the European common margins arrangement, were widened from 2V4 per cent to 4Y2 per cent either side of the cross-parities. The "rate" communicated to the Fund remained unchanged at S 1 = SDR 0.0423597. As a result, the schilling was effectively revalued. May 30. Austria signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- 50 actions. (On January 8, 1975 Austria informed the Fund that it subscribed to the Voluntary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes.) June 19. Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 1/74 continued the suspension of the liberalization of inward capital movements by extending until December 31, 1974 the provisions of Announcement DE 8/73. June 30. The general license permitting credit institu- tions to sell a limited amount of domestic securities to nonresidents (up to a global quota of S 275 million) was extended unchanged until December 31, 1974. June 30. The gentlemen's agreement of August 18, 1971 between the National Bank and the credit institu- tions which called, inter alia, for interest-free deposits with the National Bank equal to 75 per cent of any increase in banks' schilling liabilities to nonresidents was extended until December 31, 1974 and the base date for the calculation of the deposit requirement was changed to April 30, 1974; also, the credit institutions undertook not to sell foreign currency in order to in- crease their schilling liquidity, and not to Repatriate their foreign assets prior to the maturity date. July. The Austrian authorities announced that they had in recent months introduced certain adaptations of the application of the capital controls, with a view to easing some of the restrictions on inflows; these adapta- tions concerned the practice of granting licenses for inward direct investment in the secondary sector (i.e., the manufacturing industry and small business, except construction) and of commercial credits granted by nonresidents to residents on exports and imports (ex- cept for the financing of imports of consumer goods). August 8. Further amendments to the scheme of gen- eralized tariff preferences for developing countries were published, which would come into effect on January 1, 1975. Additional items, including agricultural prod- ucts, became eligible for such preferences. The preferen- tial margin for industrial products other than textile products was raised from 30 per cent to 50 per cent; in the textile sector the margin was increased from 30 per cent to 35 per cent and the existing exceptions from eligibility for cotton textiles were removed. October 18. Under the GATT Arrangement Regard- ing International Trade in Textiles, Austria concluded an agreement with Egypt, India, the Republic of Ko- rea, and Pakistan according to which exports of cotton textiles from these countries to Austria would be regu- lated. December 12. The National Bank announced the temporary suspension with effect from January 1, 1975 of the gentlemen's agreement requiring interest-free de- posits with the National Bank equal to 75 per cent of any increase in banks' schilling liabilities to nonresi- dents. However, the credit institutions were to continue to abstain from increasing domestic liquidity by taking up foreign currency funds abroad and thus raising such schilling liabilities. The deposit requirement could be reintroduced by the National Bank whenever necessary ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and without consultation with the credit institutions, and the credit institutions were to inform the National Bank immediately of any large foreign currency in- flows. December 17. An agreement was concluded with Czechoslovakia regarding compensation for national- ized Austrian assets in Czechoslovakia. December 18. It was announced that the restrictions on the expansion of domestic bank credit were being extended until June 30, 1975; credits in foreign curren- cies to nonbank residents granted after June 30, 1974 would continue to be excluded from the calculation. December 18. It was announced that the general li- cense permitting credit institutions to sell a limited amount of domestic securities to nonresidents was be- ing extended until December 31, 1975. The global quota for 1975 for such sales (which again was in addi- tion to the amount of purchases by each bank from nonresidents, including redemption and amortization) was set at S 1.5 billion. The National Bank considered that applications for additional sales would be granted liberally once the quota had been taken up in full. Any unutilized quotas for the second half of 1974 would be cancelled on December 31, 1974. December 19. With effect from January 1, 1975, For- eign Exchange Announcement DE 2 /74 granted resi- dents two general licenses permitting purchases of goods originating in "multilateral" countries for resale on a transit basis to residents of "multilateral" countries. The general licenses, which were expressed in terms of the acceptance of monetary obligations and the making of payments, were not applicable to trans- actions involving Rhodesia. Previously, specific li- censes were required for incurring monetary obligations to nonresidents in respect of such transit trade transactions. The issuance of the general licenses had become possible as a result of the termination of the last clearing arrangement. December 19. Foreign Exchange Announcement DE 3/74 extended the suspension of the liberalization of inward capital movements until December 31, 1975 by extending the validity of the provisions of Announce- ment DE 8/73. As a result, restrictions would remain in force on the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic securities and of share rights in domestic companies and domestic real property, as well as on other inward AUSTRIA capital transfers, and on the granting of certain credits to nonresidents, except where the proceeds were to be spent abroad. NOTES 1 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the coun- try of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 2 The full list is as follows: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Re- public, Chad, Chile, People's Republic of the Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equato- rial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Haiti, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Korea, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mai- dive Islands, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Nether- lands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Peru, Portugal, Qatar, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swa- ziland, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Tonga, Trini- dad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, and Zam- bia. 3 With effect from January 1, 1975, GATT liberalization was extended world-wide, except for cotton textiles. As re- gards imports originating in Eastern European countries and Japan, 205 tariff items remained subject, however, to screen- ing of invoice prices. 4 However, for sales of Austrian securities by credit institu- tions to nonresidents the National Bank has granted a general license up to the amount of purchases by each bank from nonresidents (including redemption and amortization) plus a global quota for 1975 of S 1.5 billion. The Bank will liberally approve any applications for additional sales once the global quota has been fully taken up. 5 With effect from January 1, 1975 the reserve requirement was suspended, but banks were to refrain from increasing domestic liquidity by raising their schilling liabilities to non- residents. The National Bank could on its own initiative rein- troduce the reserve requirement whenever necessary. 6 The general license does not apply to the purchase by residents from nonresidents of securities of a participating nature in whatever legal form (including shares) that are issued by foreign investment funds or by similar institutions of whatever kind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk spreading. Individual licenses are issued automatically when the purchase takes place on a recognized foreign stock ex- change. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.736662 gram of f ine gold per Bahamian Dollar, wh ich corresponds to B$l = US$1, and the Bahamas avails itself of wider marg ins. The U.S. dollar circulates concu r ren t ly w i th the Bahamian do l lar. The Cen tral Bank of the Bahamas deals on ly in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, and only w i th com- mercial banks. It buys U.S. dollars at par and charges a commission of Y2 of 1 per cent when selling. It buys s ter l ing at the New York ma rket m id - ra te aga inst the U.S. dollar and charges a commission of Y2 of 1 per cent on th is m id-ra te when selling. For t ransac t ions in t ran s fe rs and d r a f ts w i th the public, banks are au tho- rized to charge a commission of Y2 of 1 per cent buy ing, and 3/4 of 1 per cent selling, per U.S. dollar, and Y2 of 1 per cent, buy ing or selling, per £ stg. 1; these charges are add i t ional to the Central Bank's charges. In addi- tion, a stamp tax of Y4 of 1 per cent is imposed on ou twa rd transfers; remittances f rom Freeport and f rom bank accounts outside the Bahamas are exempt. There is also a market in which "investment cur- rency" l may be negotiated between residents th rough the in termed iary of an inves tment currency dealer at freely determined rates, usually a t t rac t ing a premium over the official market rate. This premium was 13 per cent on December 31, 1974. The Bahamas no t if ied the Fund on November 28, 1973 in a communication received on December 5, 1973, that it formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of the Bahamas, which in Grand Bahama and New Providence delegates to authorized dealers the authority to approve normal allocations of foreign ex- change for certain current payments; the approval au- thor i ty for import payments, travel exchange, and cash gifts is not delegated, except in Grand Bahama and the Family Islands. Impo rt and export licenses are not re- quired except for crawfish, arms and ammun i t ion, and, in certain cases, industrial gold. The Department of Agriculture and Fisheries issues export licenses for crawfish and the Police Department issues import and export licenses for arms and ammun i t ion. The adminis- tration of exchange and trade controls is not un i fo rm throughout the Bahamas, there being some differences between practices in New Providence on the one hand and Grand Bahama and the Family Islands on the other hand. Imports of industrial gold are licensed by the Central Bank. 52 Prescription of Currency The Bahamas has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under cu r rent U .K. exchange control regulations con- t inues to be regarded as a coun t ry of the Overseas Sterling Area. The Bahamas' exchange controls extend to all territories outside the Bahamas and make no d is t inc t ion between fore ign territories. Settlements with residents of foreign countries may be made in any for- eign currency 2 or in Bahamian dollars th rough an Ex- ternal Account. Nonresident Accounts Authorized b anks may free ly open External Ac- coun ts denom ina ted in Bahamian dollars for w in ter residents and for persons w i th residency permits but w i thout work permits. W i th the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may also open Exter- nal Accounts for nonresident companies that have di- rect inves tmen ts in the Bahamas and for nonresident investors. Ex ternal Accounts are normally funded en- t i re ly f rom fore ign currency originating outside the Bahamas, but income on registered investment may also be credited to these accounts. Balances may be converted free ly in to fore ign currency and transferred a b r o a d .3 Accounts wh ich are credited w i th funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents are desig- nated Blocked Accounts. These are held ma in ly by emigrants. Where the value of an emigrant's assets ex- ceeds B$25,000, the excess is credited to a Blocked Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts are t rans fe r- able th rough the off ic ial exchange market af ter four years or through the inves tment currency market at any time; they may also be invested in certain resident-held assets or spent locally for any other purpose. Imports and Import Payments The impor ta t ion of certain commodities is prohibited or controlled because of health, social, or human i tar ian reasons. All other goods may be imported w i thout a license. The prior approval of the Central Bank is re- quired for mak ing paymen ts for imports, irrespective of origin; 4 th is approval is norma l ly given automatically upon submission of pro forma invoices or other rele- vant documents prov ing the existence of a purchase contract. An import surcharge ("emergency tax") of 12Y2 per cent ad valorem is levied on most imports. Customs entries are subject to stamp tax at a rate of 3/4 of 1 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on current payments. Au- thorized dealers have been given authority to make payments to nonresidents on behalf of residents for certain services and other invisibles within specified limits. Such payments include freight, ships' disburse- ments, commissions, royalties, interest on Bahamian assets, and insurance payments. Residents are entitled to a foreign currency travel allowance of the equivalent of B$ 1,000 a person a year for tourist travel and of B$5,000 a person a year for genuine business or profes- sional travel. 5 The amount of B$ 1,000 for tourist travel excludes the cost of fares and travel services, which are normally obtained against payment in Bahamian dol- lars to a travel agent in the Bahamas. Applications for foreign exchange in excess of these amounts must be referred to the Central Bank, which approves all bona fide applications. Foreign exchange facilities obtained for travel may not be retained abroad for use on a journey or be used abroad for other purposes; any un- used balance must be surrendered within one mon th of issue or, if the traveler is still abroad, within one mon th of his return to the Bahamas. Subject to adequate docu- mentary evidence, an education allowance of up to B$6,000 a person an academic year is normally given upon application to authorized dealers. Applications for facilities in excess of this amount have to be referred to the Central Bank. Furthermore, an allowance for family support up to B$3,000 a year a remitter is granted. Temporary residents may remit all their wages and salaries which are in excess of their need in the Bahamas. There are no restrictions on the export of coins ex- pressed in any currency, but in principle, the export by travelers of domestic banknotes is limited to B$70 and of foreign currency notes to the equivalent of B$ 1,000; in practice these limits are not enforced. Exports and Export Proceeds No export licenses are required except for crawfish and arms and ammun i t ion. The proceeds of exports must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer as soon as the goods have reached their destination or within six mon ths of shipment; alternatively, export proceeds may be used in any manner satisfactory to the Central Bank. The surrender requirements are seldom enforced. Proceeds from In visibles Residents are obliged to collect w i thout delay all amounts due to them from nonresidents and to offer the foreign currency proceeds for sale to an authorized dealer w i thout delay, but these requirements are sel- dom enforced. There are no restrictions on the import of foreign banknotes, but the import of domestic bank- notes is subject to the approval of the Central Bank. BAHAMAS Capital All capital transfers to countries outside the Baha- mas require exchange control approval and outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted. Inward transfers do not require exchange control approval, although the subsequent utilization of the funds in the Bahamas may require authorization. The permission of the Central Bank is required in respect of any act whereby nonresi- dents acquire control of an incorporated company con- trolled by residents. Resident individuals and companies require the specific permission of the Cen- tral Bank to maintain bank accounts outside the Baha- mas. 6 The use of official exchange for outward direct in- vestment is limited to B$ 150,000 or 50 per cent of the total cost of the investment, whichever is greater, for investments from which the additional benefits ex- pected to accrue to the balance of payments from ex- port receipts, profits, or other earnings within 18 months of the investment, will at least equal the total amount of investment and continue thereafter. Invest- ments in excess of B$ 150,000 must be financed by in- vestment currency or by foreign currency borrowed on suitable terms, subject to individual approval by the Central Bank. Projects which do not meet the above criteria may be financed by foreign currency borrow- ing, the purchase of foreign currency in the investment currency market, or the use of retained profits of for- eign subsidiary companies. Permission is not given for projects which are likely to have adverse effects on the balance of payments. Inward investment by nonresidents in principle is unrestricted. However, the consent of the Central Bank is required for the issue or transfer of shares in a Baha- mian company to a nonresident and for the transfer of control of a Bahamian company to a nonresident. Where the investment takes the form of a purchase of real property, the nonresident must obtain permission. Such permission is normally granted, provided that a fa ir price is paid, and payment may be made either in Bahamian dollars from an External Account or in for- eign currency. For all investments with approved status, permission is automatically given for the transfer of profits and dividends, representing earned trading profits and in- vestment income. In the event of a sale or liquidation, nonresident investors are permitted to repatriate the proceeds, including any capital appreciation, through the official foreign exchange market. Residents require the specific approval of the Central Bank to buy property outside the Bahamas; such pur- chases, if for personal use, can only be made with in- vestment currency, and approval is limited to one property for each family. Any incidental expenses con- nected with the purchase of property for personal use may normally be met with investment currency; ex- penditures necessary to preserve the property, or aris- ing directly from its ownership, may with permission be 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHAMAS met w i th fore ign currency bought at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange ma rke t. The transfer of legacies and inheritances due to non- resident beneficiaries under wills or intestacies of per- sons who were Bahamian residents at the time of their death is permitted. However, permission is not nor- ma l ly given for Bahamian residents to settle any prop- er ty, other than by will, for the benef it of nonresidents. A resident may make cash g i f ts to nonresidents not exceeding a total of B$ 1,000 a donor each year. This amount may be exceeded, w i th permission, in special circumstances. Foreign na t iona ls domiciled in the Bahamas, even if considered resident for exchange control purposes, may be eligible for a measure of exemption f rom certain exchange control obligations, no tab ly w i th respect to the manda to ry deposit of foreign currency securities and the surrender of certain other foreign capital assets. Bahamian securities may be purchased and sold free ly by all persons, irrespective of residence, th rough authorized agents. 7 Nonresident buyers of Bahamian securities must pay for such purchases in Bahamian dollars f rom an External Account, in funds eligible for credit to an External Account, or in Bahamian dollars arising f rom the sale of foreign currency in the official foreign exchange marke t; interest, dividends, and capi- tal paymen ts on such securities may not be remitted outside the Bahamas unless the holdings have been properly acquired by nonresidents. Bahamian residents are not permitted to purchase foreign currency securi- ties w i th official exchange nor out of export proceeds or other current earnings; payment must be made w i th inves tment currency. All purchases, sales, and switches of foreign currency securities in the Bahamas and all switches of foreign currency securities by Bahamian residents, wherever the switch takes place, requ ire per- mission f rom the Central Bank, and all transac t ions must take place th rough authorized agents. All fore ign securities purchased by residents of the Bahamas must be held to the order of an authorized agent. Securities of other Sterling Area countries are considered foreign currency securities, and sales proceeds of such securi- ties held by residents, if registered at the Central Bank by December 31, 1972, are eligible for sale in the in- vestment currency market; securities not proper ly reg- istered may be offered for sale at the off ic ial rate of exchange. Residents leaving the country with the intention of residing outside the Bahamas permanen t ly are redesig- nated upon depar ture as nonresidents. Under normal rules a fam i ly (or an individual), leaving the Bahamas to take up residence elsewhere, may t rans fer at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange marke t, up to B$25,000 of its (his) Bahamian dollar assets to the new coun try of residence, and may also take normal household and personal effec ts w i th them. Where the total value of their Bahamian dollar assets is over B$25,000, the excess is transferab le th rough the official exchange market af ter four years or th rough the 54 inves tment currency ma rket at any time. A f ter a per- son's redesignation as a nonresident, income accruing f rom his assets rema in ing in the Bahamas is normally rem i t tab le at the current market ra te in the official fore ign exchange ma rke t. Residents other than authorized banks require per- mission to borrow fore ign currency f rom nonresidents, and authorized dealers are subject to exchange control directions w i th regard to their lending of foreign cur- rency to residents. Residents also requ ire permission to pay interest on, and to repay the principal of, fore ign cu r rency loans th rough the conversion of Bahamian dollars. Where permission is gran ted for residents to accept fo re ign currency loans, such permission is nor- ma l ly cond i t ional upon the currency being offered for sale w i thout delay to an authorized dealer, unless the f u n ds are requ ired to meet paymen ts to nonresidents for wh ich permission has been specifically given. A resident company wh ich is who l ly owned by non- residents of the Bahamas is not normally allowed to raise wo rk ing capital in Bahamian dollars unless such f u n ds are a small p ropo r t ion of the to tal inves tmen t. If the company is pa r t ly owned by nonresidents, approval of such local currency borrow ing is determined on a basis pro rata to the nonres ident interest in the equ i ty of the company. Banks and o ther lenders resident in the Bahamas require permission before they make loans in domestic currency to any body corporate (other than a bank), which is resident in the Bahamas and is by any means controlled, whe ther directly or ind irec t ly, by nonresidents. However, companies which are set up by nonres iden ts pr imar i ly to impo rt and d is t r ibu te prod- ucts m anu f a c tu r ed outside the Bahamas are not nor- ma l ly allowed to bo r row Bahamian dollars f rom residents either for f ixed or wo rk ing capital but must prov ide all the ir f in an ce in fore ign currency; borrow- ings in a foreign currency no rma l ly are permitted on app l ica t ion. Generally, au thor ized dealers may provide credit in Bahamian dollars to nonres iden ts for up to 180 days when it is by way of documen tary bills in respect of current shipments of goods between the Bahamas and the rest of the wor ld. They may also provide credit to nonresidents for up to n ine mon ths to f inance the im- port in to the Bahamas w i th in that period of pr imary products where th is has been trad i t iona l. Foreign cur- rency deposited w i th authorized dealers may be on-lent to nonresidents for any purpose. Gold Residents of the Bahamas other than authorized dealers are not permitted to hold or deal in gold bul- lion. Those residents, however, who are known users of gold for industrial purposes may, w i th the approval of the Central Bank, meet the ir current industrial require- men ts. Impo rt licenses are freely issued by the Central Bank to indus tr ial users. Authorized dealers are not required to obtain licenses for bullion or coins. Com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution mercial imports of gold jewelry do not require a license. There is no import duty on gold bullion or gold coins; however, an import du ty of 10 per cent is imposed on gold jewelry imports from Commonwealth countries (30 per cent for other countries), and a 7Y2 per cent stamp tax payable to the customs is levied on gold jewelry from any source. There is no restriction on the acquisition or retention by residents of gold coins. The Bahamas has issued eight commemorative gold coins in denominations of B$ 10, B$20, B$50, and B$ 100; these are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1974 June 1. The Central Bank of the Bahamas was estab- lished to replace the Bahamas Monetary Au thor i ty. June 30. The administration of exchange controls in Grand Bahama was brought into conformity with that of the Family Islands, by the delegation to authorized banks in Grand Bahama of the approval au thor i ty for import payments, travel exchange, and cash gifts. BAHAMAS NOTES 1 This is foreign currency in respect of which there is a general or specific Central Bank permission that it may be retained and used or disposed of as investment currency. Such permission may exist in respect of foreign currency accruing to residents of the Bahamas from the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities or the sale, liquidation, redemp- tion, or realization of property or of direct investments out- side the Bahamas. The use of investment currency is prescribed for the purchase from nonresidents of foreign cur- rency securities and the making of direct investments outside the Bahamas. 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Bahamian dollar. 3 Physical persons of foreign nationality who have been granted "temporary resident" status are treated as nonresi- dents but are not permitted to hold External Accounts. 4 Except in the Grand Bahama and the Family Islands, where th is authority is delegated to clearing bank branches. 5 Temporary residents are eligible for business travel allow- ances but not for other travel allowances. 6 Banks and trusts established in the Bahamas are exempt from certain exchange control regulations, particularly with regard to their offshore operations. 7 These are ten banks, trust companies, and others autho- rized to deal in Bahamian and foreign currency securities, and to receive securities in deposit. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BAHRAIN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.86621 grams of f ine gold per Bah- rain Dinar, corresponding to BD 0.394737 = US$1, and Bahrain avails itself of wider margins. The Bahrain Monetary Agency quotes daily rates for sterling based on London rates for the U.S. dollar against sterling. On December 31, 1974, the Monetary Agency's buy ing and selling rates for sterling were BD 0.915 and BD 0.934 per £ stg. 1, respectively. In their dealings with the public, commercial banks are required to ob- serve the Monetary Agency's rates, but they are autho- rized to charge up to BD 0.005 per £ stg. 1, buy ing and selling. The banks' rates for other currencies are based on the Monetary Agency's rates for sterling and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against sterling. On December 31, 1974, their buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were BD 0.3955 and BD 0.399, respectively, per US$1.1 The Monetary Agency does not deal with the public. Bahrain forma l ly accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on March 20, 1973. Administration of Control The Monetary Agency is the exchange control au- tho r i ty but there is no exchange control legislation in Bahrain. Bahrain has ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- to ry in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U .K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a coun t ry of the Overseas Sterling Area. Payments of "unreasonable amounts" to destinations outside the Sterling Area may be examined by the banks a n d / or the Mone tary Agency on a discre- t ionary basis. In practice, however, ou tward payments are not restricted. Impo rt and export licenses are issued by the Bahrain Chamber of Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements w i th Israel and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. Otherwise, no requirements are imposed on ex- change paymen ts or receipts. Nonresident Accounts No d is t inc t ion is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. 2 Imports and Import Payments All impor ts f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited, as are products manu fac tu red by foreign companies that have been blacklisted by the Arab League. Impor ts of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for 56 reasons of health, morals, or security; imports of cul- tured pearls also are prohibited. Import licenses are required on ly for arms and ammunition, television cameras, and alcoholic beverages. Cement can only be imported by the Bahrain Import-Export Company, and rice and sugar are in practice imported only by that company. Exchange for payments in respect of permit- ted imports may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports of certain refined petroleum products to Portugal and South Africa have been suspended. Oth- erwise, all commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, re- gardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to or received f rom Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out of Bahrain any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, but no payments may be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Prof i ts from foreign invest- ments in Bahrain may be transferred abroad freely, w i th the exception that under the Banking Control Law, banks are subject to special rules regarding the payment of dividends and the remittance of their prof- its. Gold Residents may freely and w i thout a license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Impor ts and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license. Imports of gold jewe lry are subject to a 10 per cent customs duty but gold ingots are exempt. Changes during 1974 January 23. The Bahrain Monetary Agency started operations as successor to the Bahrain Currency Board. In addition to the functions of the latter, the decree of December 5, 1973 creating the Agency bestowed on it the functions of an exchange control authority. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 19. The embargo on exports of petroleum products to the United States was lifted. July 10. The embargo on exports of petroleum prod- * , i t, IT f ucts to Denmark and the Ne ther lands was l if ted. JMUl Lb 1 On J a n u a ry 4, 1975, the Monetary Agency s tar ted quo t- ing da i ly rates for the U.S. dollar, based on the par value. It also mod if ied the basis for the daily quotations for sterling. ™e co™mercial banks henceforth used the Monetary Agency s rates for the U.S. dollar as the basis for their quota- t ions for o tner currencies. 2 However, early in 1975 a distinction was made when d e f in i t ions of the concepts of resident and nonresident were issued. BAHRAIN 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Bangladesh currency, the Taka, has been established with the Fund. The official ex- change rate is Tk 18.9677 = £ stg. 1, and the currency is floating with sterling. Exchange rates for currencies other than sterling and the Indian rupee are based on the London market rates for the currencies concerned. On December 31, 1974, the spot buying and selling rates of the Bangladesh Bank (the central bank) for authorized dealers were Tk 18.9521 per £ stg. 1 and Tk 18.9990 per £ stg. 1, respectively. On Decem- ber 31, 1974, the spot buy ing and selling rates (tele- graphic transfers) of authorized dealers were Tk 18.9365 per £ stg. 1 and Tk 19.0302 per £ stg. 1, respectively. A buy ing rate of Tk 30 per £ stg. 1 is applicable to certain remittances made to Bangladesh by Bangladesh nationals working abroad who are not being paid out of Bangladesh resources. An exchange tax of 30 per cent is applied to foreign exchange sold by authorized dealers for travel or stay abroad for specified purposes. Forward transactions of the Bangladesh Bank are confined to purchases of sterling and U.S. dollars. For- ward facilities at authorized banks are available for export proceeds in sterling and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bangladesh Bank in accordance w i th general policy formulated in consultation w i th the Ministry of Finance. The three foreign and six domestic commercial banks have been appointed authorized dealers (authorized banks). The Chief Controller of Impor ts and Exports of the Minis- try of Commerce (Foreign Trade Division) is responsi- ble for the issuance of import and export licenses. Certain trade transactions are conducted th rough state trading agencies, including the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) and the Bangladesh Jute Export Corporation. Prescription of Currency Bangladesh has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a coun t ry of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements w i th all countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements w i th countries w i th which Bangladesh has bilateral paymen ts agreements1 normally must be effected through clearing accounts specified in the agreements. Settlements in respect of trade with Burma also are made th rough a special ac- count. As regards other countries, settlements nor- mally take place in sterling and other convertible currencies or through Nonresident Taka Accounts. 58 Payments for imports may be made to the country of origin of the goods or to any other country (with the exception of those countries from which importation is prohibited); they may be made (1) in takas for credit to an account in Bangladesh held by a resident of the coun try concerned or of any coun t ry in the Overseas Sterling Area; (2) in the local currency of the coun try concerned; or (3) in pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, or any other currency specified by the exchange control authorities. Export proceeds must be received in con- vertible foreign exchange,2 or in takas from a Nonresi- dent Taka Account of a bank in any coun try of the Overseas Sterling Area. All settlements with Pakistan, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of ind iv idua ls, f i rms, or companies res- ident in countries outside Bangladesh are designated Nonresident Accounts. All such accounts are regarded for exchange control purposes as accounts related to the coun t ry in which the account holder is permanently residing.3 Specified debit and credit entries to nonresident ac- counts may be made by authorized dealers without prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank during the ab- sence of the account holder f rom Bangladesh. Certain other debits and credits may be made w i thout the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank but subject to report- ing ex post. All diplomatic missions operating in Bangladesh, their diplomatic officers, home-based members of the mission s taffs, and international organizations func- t ion ing in Bangladesh and their expatriate employees are allowed to ma in ta in Convertible Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely w i th receipts of inwa rd remittances in convertible foreign exchange, and may be debited free ly and at any time for remit- tances abroad in convertible currencies and for trans- fers to Nonconvertible Taka Accounts. Transfers between Convertible Taka Accounts are freely permit- ted. Bangladesh na t iona ls work ing abroad are permitted to open Convertible Nonresident Taka Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th (1) remittances in con- vertible currencies received f rom abroad through nor- mal bank ing channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, travelers checks, drafts, etc.) brought in to Bangladesh by the account holder wh i le on temporary visits to Bangladesh, provided they were declared upon arrival in Bangladesh; and (3) transfers from other Convertible Nonresident Taka Ac- counts. The accounts may be debited, without restric- tion, for the fo l low ing purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Convertible Non- resident Taka Accounts; (3) payments for imports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution specified goods; (4) payments of bank commissions and other bank charges connected with the handling of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for busi- ness purposes by the account holder, or by any other person authorized by him with the permission of the Bangladesh Bank. The conversion of foreign exchange for credit or debit against the accounts is effected at the authorized dealers' usual buying and selling rates. New nonresident accounts may be opened only with the prior approval of the Bangladesh Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports are financed either from Bangladesh's own resources or with foreign aid, loans, and barter arrange- ments. Imports financed from Bangladesh's own re- sources are licensed within the framework of a semiannual import policy (import budget). Under the import policy for the "shipping" period, July-Decem- ber 1974, items permissible for import were classified into three broad categories: (1) consumer goods permit- ted to be imported by "commercial importers," includ- ing the TCB; (2) raw materials and packing materials permitted to be imported by "industrial consumers" recognized as such under an entitlement system; and (3) items permitted to be imported exclusively by the TCB and /or jointly by the TCB and private sector import- ers. The list of commodities that could be imported under this import policy comprised some 47 items; no provision was made for commercial imports of any other goods, whose importation, therefore, was de facto prohibited unless financed by foreign aid. Imports from Pakistan, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports require licenses. Single country licenses are issued for imports under bilateral trade or payments arrangements and for most aid imports. Other import licenses are valid world-wide, except for Pakistan, Rho- desia, and South Africa. Licenses issued to commercial importers are valid for a period of six months from the date of issuance. There is a list of commercial import- ers, and items they are permitted to import are speci- fied. Licenses are normally issued to commercial importers for importation of one item only, and the total value of such a license could not exceed Tk 10,000 during the July-December 1974 "shipping" period; li- censes issued under bilateral trade or payments ar- rangements were also counted toward this limit. Licenses (other than those issued under the Export Performance Scheme and the Wage Earners' Scheme) are not transferable, and when they expire are not nor- mally revalidated except where, owing to circum- stances beyond the control of importers, the letter of credit requirement could not be met or shipping ar- rangements could not be made. All licenses and other forms of import permits are subject to a tax of 20 per cent of the face value. The following goods are exempt: food grains; fertilizers; crude and refined petroleum, oil, and lubricants; pesti- cides; crude and refined edible oils; baby foods; raw BANGLADESH cotton; cotton yarn and cloth; drugs and medicines (including raw materials and packing materials for the pharmaceutical industry); refined coconut oil; and "nondevelopment" imports by the Government. Irrevocable letters of credit must be opened within three months from the date of issuance of licenses. Many imports are reserved for the TCB, including cer- tain chemical and metal products, cement, sugar, cer- tain cotton textiles, and woolen fabrics. In addition, the importation of a number of items is reserved exclusively to other public sector agencies; these include airplane parts, trucks, fire engines, bus and truck chassis, coal and coke, cinematographic films, certain cotton tex- tiles, edible oil, fertilizers, insecticides, and wood and timber. There are limited facilities outside the import program for minor imports by specified end-users, such as hospitals and educational or technical institutions, and for imports financed from balances in Convertible Nonresident Taka Accounts under a Wage Earners' Scheme. The licensing of imports of specified raw materials and packing materials by industrial consumers is gov- erned by an entitlement system, based on the require- ments for various industries during each "shipping" period as established by the Director-General of Indus- tries. Firms in the industrial sectors are given an entitle- ment for importation of specified raw materials and packing materials, and licenses are issued on the basis of the entitlement. Separately, industrial consumers may be granted import licenses for parts and accesso- ries of machinery. Goods imported against licenses is- sued to industrial consumers must be used in the industry concerned and must not be sold or transferred without prior approval. Under an Export Performance License Scheme aimed at encouraging industrial exports, industries en- gaged in export business (other than in jute, jute goods, or tea), or with export potential, may receive licenses in excess of their normal entitlement for the importation of their raw material requirements, on the basis of their export performance. Licenses issued under the scheme have to be claimed within six months of the realization of the export proceeds. Foreign exchange for licensed imports is provided automatically by authorized dealers when payments are due. Advance payments for imports require approval by the Bangladesh Bank, which normally is given only for specialized or capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles connected with authorized trade transactions generally are not restricted. Pay- ments for most other invisibles require prior approval and are restricted. No foreign exchange is provided for tourist travel. Applications for foreign exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and education abroad are considered on an individual basis; as a rule, the amount granted is £ stg. 75 for two weeks of busi- 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH ness travel, and about £ stg. 400 for medical treat- ment. An exchange tax of 30 per cent is imposed on sales of foreign exchange for these purposes. Foreign nationals work ing in Bangladesh must obtain approval before mak ing remittances abroad for fam i ly mainte- nance purposes; such approval is usually granted for 50 per cent of wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of £ stg. 150 a mon th (net of tax) if the terms of employ- ment have been approved by the Government. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks they declared on en try less the amount sold to authorized dealers or money changers; they may also, w i thout obtaining the approval of the Bangladesh Bank, reconvert taka notes up to Tk 150 in to convertible foreign currencies. Resident travelers may take out foreign currency and travelers checks up to the amount of any travel allocation they have been granted. Bangladesh nationals may take out Tk 20 in domestic currency; otherwise, the export of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Pakistan, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The Bangladesh Jute Export Corporation has a monopoly over the export of raw ju te, and the Ju te Mills Corporation over exports of ju te goods. The proceeds from exports of ju te goods and tea must be received w i th in six mon ths of shipment, those from exports of perishable goods to Ind ia w i th in two mon ths of shipment, and those f rom other exports w i th in four mon ths of shipment. Exporters of 102 items receive a cash subsidy equ iva lent to 10, 30, 40, 50, or 75 per cent of the net f .o .b. value. In addition, certain export indus- tries are granted incentives th rough a Raw Materials Replenishment Scheme. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered, but Bangladesh nationals wo rk ing abroad may retain the countervalue of certain foreign exchange in Con- vertible Nonresident Taka Accounts. Remittances in convertible currencies made to their dependent rela- tives by Bangladesh nationals wo rk ing abroad and not receiving payment out of Bangladesh resources are ac- corded a premium resulting in an effective buy ing rate of Tk 30 per £ stg. 1; this treatment also applies to travelers checks and foreign currency notes in convert- ible currencies brought in to Bangladesh by Bangladesh nationals wo rk ing abroad (provided these were de- clared upon arrival). The import of Bangladesh currency notes and coins is prohibited. Foreign currency travelers checks and foreign currency notes may be brought in by nonresi- dent travelers w i thout l im i t, provided that the total amount brought in is declared to the customs authori- ties upon arrival. 60 Capital All outward transfers of capital require approval; such approval is not normally granted in respect of resident-owned capital. Inward capital transfers also require approval, which generally is given. All Bangla- desh nationals who are resident in Bangladesh must surrender any foreign exchange coming into their pos- session, whether held in Bangladesh or abroad, to an authorized dealer within one month of the date of ac- quisition. Foreign nationals residing in Bangladesh continuously for more than six months are required to surrender any foreign exchange representing their earn- ings abroad in respect of business conducted in Bangla- desh or services rendered, within one month of the date of acquisition. There is no restriction on the importation of securi- ties into Bangladesh, but the transfer of securities in favor of a person resident outside Bangladesh requires approval. This requirement applies to all Bangladesh securities, whether held by persons resident in Bangla- desh or outside Bangladesh, and to all foreign securities held by persons resident in Bangladesh. Approval is given if securities are returned to Bangladesh within a specified period or, if they are sold, if the proceeds are repatriated to Bangladesh. Authorized dealers may obtain short-term loans and overdraf ts from overseas branches and correspondents for a period not exceeding seven days at a time, pro- vided that they are obtained only in the currency of the coun t ry or mone tary area in which the overseas bank branch or correspondent is situated. Borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled enterprises from commercial banks in Ban- gladesh, as well as from abroad, requires approval, and loans in local currency against overseas guarantees or collateral outside Bangladesh by authorized dealers also require approval. Authorized dealers may, how- ever, approve loans, overdrafts, or credit facilities against goods intended for export from Bangladesh to companies controlled by persons resident outside Ban- gladesh. Authorized dealers must obtain approval be- fore mak ing any long-term loans in foreign currencies to residents or nonresidents, whether secured or unse- cured. They are not normally permitted to hold short-term foreign assets other than small working bal- ances. Under the revised Industrial Investment Policy an- nounced on Ju ly 16, 1974, foreign private investment is permitted in collaboration w i th both the Government and pr iva te entrepreneurs. In the private sector, how- ever, foreign participation will be limited to those in- dustries where technical know-how is not locally available; where the technology involved is very com- plicated; or where capital outlay is high; and to indus- tries that are either based on local raw materials or that are who l ly export oriented. For a new investment, the foreign investors generally are to provide the entire amount of the project's foreign exchange component as ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution equity capital. The ceiling on private investment is Tk 30 million. Tax holidays are granted for five or seven years, depending on location. All foreign invest- ments require approval by the Investment Board. Under this policy, dividends on foreign capital can be remitted net of tax. Also remittable are 50 per cent of the net salary of foreign nationals, up to a maximum of £ stg. 150 a month a person, and savings from earn- ings, retirement benefits, and personal assets on termi- nation of services or retirement. Repatriation of foreign capital, including capital gains and profits reinvested within the first 10 years from the commencement of production, may take place over a period of 10 years. Government guarantees against nationalization are provided for a period of 15 years, and in the event of nationalization after this period, compensation is to be paid on a fair and equitable basis. A premium resulting in an effective buying rate of Tk 30 per £ stg. 1 is applied to convertible currency remittances by Bangladesh nationals working abroad of accumulated cash savings and of the sales proceeds from property abroad. Gold The import and export of gold or silver in any form are prohibited without special permission, which is not normally granted. There are no restrictions on the in- ternal sale, purchase, or possession of gold or silver ornaments (including coins) and jewelry, but there is a prohibition on the holding of gold and silver in any other form except by licensed industrialists or dentists. Changes during 1974 January 3. The import policy for the first half of 1974 was announced. Certain luxury items, such as automo- biles, air-conditioners, and refrigerators, remained on the banned list. Public sector corporations henceforth were allowed to import their requirements directly, in- stead of through the TCB. March 1. The Bangladesh Bank began to rediscount bills of exchange drawn in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars payable at London and New York, provided that they were drawn against irrevocable letters of credit and that the maturity of bills did not exceed 180 days from the date they were purchased by the Bangla- desh Bank. April 11. The requirement that letters of credit must be opened within three months from the date of issue of licenses was waived with respect to licenses relating to the July-December 1973 "shipping" period. June 28. The Premium Scheme for Home Remit- tances was extended for another year. July 1. An exchange tax of 30 per cent was intro- duced on foreign exchange sold by authorized dealers for travel or stay abroad for the following purposes: education; medical treatment; business; attendance at a seminar, symposium, conference, or meeting; and any BANGLADESH other purpose that might be specified by the Govern- ment. (No other purposes were specified.) July 1. An import license tax of 20 per cent of the face value of all licenses and other forms of import permits was introduced. The tax also applied to imports requir- ing only letters of credit opened against a specific allo- cation of foreign exchange. The following goods were exempt: food grains; fertilizers; crude and refined petro- leum, oil, and lubricants; pesticides; crude and refined edible oils; baby foods; raw cotton; cotton yarn; cotton cloth; drugs and Pharmaceuticals; refined coconut oil; and "nondevelopment" imports by the Government. July 8. Foreign travel by Bangladesh nationals, ex- cept for official, business, or study purposes, became subject to an exit permit obtained from the Govern- ment. July 16. A revised industrial investment policy was announced and new industrial investment guidelines were issued. They increased the permissible degree of foreign private investment. July 20. The import policy for the period July-De- cember 1974 was announced. The main features were as follows: Industrial units engaged in export were is- sued additional licenses over their normal share of im- ports, on the basis of their export performance and at a percentage fixed by the Government. Import licenses to commercial importers were issued on a cash, aid/ loan/credit, and barter basis, on production of proof of opening of letters of credit against licenses issued to them during the preceding shipping periods. Bangla- desh nationals working and earning abroad were per- mitted to import out of their earnings abroad specified items listed in the import policy. July 31. Bangladesh nationals working abroad were permitted to open Convertible Nonresident Taka Ac- counts in Bangladesh. These accounts could be credited with (1) remittances in convertible currencies received from abroad through normal banking channels; (2) proceeds of convertible currencies (currency notes, travelers checks, drafts, etc.) brought into Bangladesh by the account holder while on temporary visits to Bangladesh, provided they were declared upon arrival in Bangladesh; and (3) transfers from other Convertible Nonresident Taka Accounts. The accounts could be debited, without restriction, for the following purposes: (1) all local disbursements; (2) transfers to other Con- vertible Nonresident Taka Accounts; (3) payments for imports of specified goods; (4) payments of bank com- missions and other bank charges connected with the handling of the accounts; and (5) travel expenditures abroad for business purposes by the account holder, or by any other person authorized by him with the permis- sion of the Bangladesh Bank. The conversion of foreign exchange for credit or debit against the accounts was effected at authorized dealers' usual buying and selling rates. August 19. Bangladesh nationals working or living abroad and visiting Bangladesh temporarily were al- lowed to retain up to £ stg. 5 a person or £ stg. 15 a 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BANGLADESH fam i ly (or an equivalent amount in other foreign cur- rencies), which they could take out again, provided the amount was declared upon arrival in Bangladesh. August 20. The fo l low ing additional types of foreign exchange receipts became eligible for the Premium Scheme for Home Remittances, under which an effec- t ive buy ing rate of Tk 30 per £ stg. 1 is applied: (1) travelers checks and foreign currency notes in convert- ible currencies brought in to Bangladesh by Bangladesh nationals working abroad, provided they were declared upon arrival; and (2) remittances by Bangladesh na- tionals wo rk ing abroad of accumulated cash savings and of sales proceeds from properties abroad. November 26. An agreement on trade in ju te prod- ucts was signed w i th the EEC. December 3. The cash subsidy scheme for exports, under which exporters of specified products received a cash subsidy equivalent to 30 per cent of the net f .o .b. value of exports, was extended un t il fu r th er notice; for exports of certain products effected on or a f ter Septem- ber 25, 1974, the rate of subsidy was changed to 10, 40, 50, or 75 per cent. December 17. Agreement was reached to terminate the trade and payments agreement with India with ef- fect f rom January 1, 1975. Outstanding contracts for coal, ju te, newsprint, tobacco, and fresh fruits, how- ever, were extended up to February 28, 1975, for settle- ment in Ind ian rupees. The special clearing arrangement for the financing of travel between India and Bangladesh would be terminated at the same time. NOTES 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Ind ia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a special clearing arrangement with India for the settlement of travel expenditures. (With effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1975 settlements w i th India, including those in respect of travel, were placed on a convertible currency basis.) 2 The fo l low ing are considered convertible foreign curren- cies: deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 The accounts of the United Nations and its organizations, however, are treated as resident accounts. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Barbados Dollar, but no exchange transactions take place at the par value. The Central Bank of Barbados maintains a fixed relationship for the Barbados dollar with sterling at the rate of BDSS4.80 = £ stg. 1. Con- sequently, all exchange transactions other than those in sterling or currencies linked to sterling take place at fluctuating rates. The Central Bank is authorized to levy a commission charge of up to 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers of sterling. On December 31,1974, the com- mission charges in transactions with authorized banks were V8 of 1 per cent on inward transfers and V2 of 1 per cent on outward transfers. The commission which may be charged by commercial banks in dealings in sterling with their customers is regulated by the Central Bank. On December 31, 1974 these charges were 3/16 of 1 per cent buying, and 5/8 of 1 per cent selling, for telegraphic transfers, and V* of 1 per cent buying, and % of 1 per cent selling, for mail transfers and drafts. The Central Bank maintains fixed buying and selling rates at Y8 of 1 per cent either side of parity for the East Caribbean dollar, the Guyana dollar, and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, while for the Jamaica dollar the Central Bank's buying and selling rates are determined on the basis of the prevailing sterling/U.S. dollar rate. Authorized dealers apply commission charges for these currencies of 5/16 of 1 per cent, buying and selling. Exchange rates for convertible non-Sterling Area cur- rencies are based on the daily buy ing and selling rates in the London market. On December 31, 1974, the authorized dealers' buying rates for the U.S. dollar were BDS$200.4 per US$100 for banknotes and BDS$202.1 for checks; their selling rate was BDS$207.1 per US$100. Under arrangements with the East Caribbean Cur- rency Authority and the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, the Central Bank of Barbados purchases at the parity rates of BDS$1 = EC$1 and BDS$1 = TT$1 banknotes issued by these monetary authorities and repatriates the currency in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to collections of Barbados notes. Administration of Control Exchange control applies to all countries. It is ad- ministered by the Central Bank of Barbados, to which the Minister of Finance has delegated the performance of his ordinary functions as the Exchange Control Au- thority. The Central Bank delegates to authorized deal- ers the authority to approve normal import payments and the allocation of foreign exchange for certain other current payments and for cash gifts. The exchange con- trol system provides that foreign exchange should nor- mally be surrendered to an authorized dealer. The nor- mal exchange control directives do not apply to transactions between residents and persons resident in Rhodesia or South Africa. Trade controls are adminis- tered by the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Com- merce. Prescription of Currency Barbados has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements with residents of the Sterling Area countries other than member countries of the Ca- ribbean Common Market (CARICOM),1 may be made in sterling, in any other Sterling Area currency, or in Bar- bados dollars to and from External Accounts. Settle- ments with residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any foreign currency2 or through an External Account in Barbados dollars. Settlements with residents of CARICOM countries must be made either through External Ac- counts (in Barbados dollars) or in the currency of the CARICOM country concerned. Nonresident Accounts With the permission of the Central Bank, authorized dealers may maintain Foreign Currency Accounts in the names of residents of other countries. Permission to open Foreign Currency Accounts, which are main- tained in foreign currencies, is given on the basis of the anticipated frequency of receipts and payments in for- eign currency. Certain receipts and payments may be credited and debited to Foreign Currency Accounts, subject to the conditions of approval at the time the account was opened. Other credits and debits require individual approval. External Accounts may be opened for nonresidents by authorized dealers without reference to the Central Bank. These accounts are maintained in Barbados dol- lars. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts, with bank interest (payable on External Accounts or Blocked Accounts), and with payments by residents for which general or specific permission has been given by the Central Bank. They may be debited for payments to residents of Barbados, for the cost of foreign exchange required for travel or business pur- poses, and for any other payments covered by dele- gated authority to authorized dealers. Other debits and any overdrafts require individual approval. The Exchange Control Act, 1967 (as amended) em- powers the Central Bank to require certain payments in 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS favor of nonresidents which are ineligible for t rans fer to be credited to Blocked Accounts. Amounts standing to the credit of Blocked Accounts may not be w i thd rawn w i thout approval, other than for the purchase of ap- proved securities. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited and imports originating in the People's Re- public of China, the CMEA countries, No r th Korea, Japan, and Portugal require individual licenses. Certain imports are prohibited; these include various food s tu f fs and beer. Certain other commodities require individual licenses; these include passenger automobiles, buses, refrigerators, cement, unrefined gold, certain petroleum products, certain food s tu f fs and beverages, and certain garments. Individual licenses are also required for im- ports of commodities subject to the provisions of the Oil and Fats Agreement between the Governments of Barbados, Guyana, Grenada, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Trinidad and Tobago, and Dominica. Where commodi- ties are placed under license, it is necessary to seek a license whether the goods are being imported from CAR ICOM countries or elsewhere. Special licensing ar- rangements have been made for the regulation of trade between Barbados and other CARICOM countries in 22 agricultural commodities. All imports not referred to previously are on open general license. Payments for authorized impor ts are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence (invoices and customs warran ts) to authorized dealers. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange control ap- proval. Except for transactions invo lv ing residents of Rhodesia and South Africa, payments for all commer- cial transactions are permitted freely when the applica- tion is supported by appropriate documentary evidence. Au tho r i ty has been delegated to authorized dealers to provide basic allocations of foreign exchange for certain payments of a personal na ture and for sun- dry payments. These include foreign travel (for which up to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year may be allocated for private travel and up to BDS$4,500 a person a calendar year for business travel), expenses of education abroad ( BDS$5,000 a person a year), sub- scriptions to newspapers and magazines, income tax refunds, official payments, and life insurance premi- ums. With the exception of tourism, applications for additional amounts or for purposes for which there is no basic allocation are approved by the authorities, provided that no unauthorized transfer of capital seems to be involved. Applications in respect of tourism in excess of BDS$ 1,500 a person are considered on their merits. The cost of transportation to any destination 64 may be settled in domestic currency and is not de- ducted f rom the travel allocation. Residents trave l ing to any destination outside Barba- dos may take out foreign currency notes and coins up to the value of BDSS500 and Barbados notes up to BDSS100. Nonresident visitors are not permitted to take out any Barbados currency but may freely export any foreign currency previously brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited and licenses are required for the export of goods to the People's Republic of China, the CMEA countries, No r th Korea, Tibet, and Nor th Viet-Nam. Specific li- censes are required for the export of certain goods to any coun t ry; these goods include rice, cane sugar, rum, molasses, and certain other food products, portland cement, and petroleum products. All other goods may be exported without license. The collection of export proceeds is supervised by the Central Bank to ensure that proceeds in foreign currencies are surrendered w i th in six mon ths f rom the date of shipment. Proceeds from In visibles Foreign currency proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized dealer. Travelers to Barbados may bring in free ly notes and coins denominated in Barbados dollars or in any fore ign currency. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to an authorized dealer upon re tu rn to Bar- bados. Capital Ail ou tward capital transfers require exchange con- trol approval. Direct inves tmen ts outside Barbados by residents require exchange control approval. The pur- chase by residents of foreign currency securities and of real estate situated abroad for private purposes also requires exchange control approval. Certificates of title to foreign currency securities held by residents must be lodged with an authorized depository in Barbados and earnings on these securities must be repatriated and surrendered to an authorized dealer. Personal capital transfers such as inheritances to nonresidents require exchange control approval, which is granted subject to the payment of estate and succes- sion duties. Dowries in the form of settlements, and cash gifts up to normally BDSS500 a donor a year may be transferred, with exchange control approval, to non- residents; the au thor i ty to approve cash gifts up to BDS$50 a donor a year is delegated to authorized deal- ers. Emigrating Barbadian nationals are granted set- tling-in allowances from their declared assets at the rate of BDS$24,000 a fam i ly un it a year. The Central Bank will also consider applications from foreign nationals who have resided in Barbados and are proceeding to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution take up permanent residence abroad, provided they declare their assets held in Barbados. Direct investment in Barbados by nonresidents may be made with exchange control approval. The remit- tance of earnings on, and liquidation proceeds from, such investment is permitted, subject to the submission of documentary evidence that the amount to be remit- ted is accurate, to the discharge of any liabilities related to the investment, and to the registration of the original investment with the Central Bank. The issuance and transfer to nonresidents of securi- ties registered in Barbados require exchange control approval, which is freely given on condition that an adequate amount of foreign currency is brought in for their purchase. Proceeds from the realization of these securities may be remitted when it is established that the original investment was financed from foreign cur- rency sources. Nonresidents may acquire in Barbados real estate for private purposes with funds from foreign currency sources; local currency financing is not ordi- narily permitted. Proceeds from the realization of such investments equivalent to the amount of foreign cur- rency brought in may be repatriated freely. Capital sums realized in excess of this amount may be repatri- ated freely on the basis of a rate of return on the original foreign investment, calculated at the following rates: for the last five years at 8 per cent per annum; for the five years immediately preceding the last five years at 5 per cent; and for any period preceding the last ten years at 4 per cent. Amounts in excess of the sum so derived are restricted to the remittance of BDS$24,000 a year. The approval of the Central Bank of Barbados is required for residents to borrow abroad or for nonresi- dents to borrow in Barbados. Authorized dealers may freely assume short-term liability positions in foreign currencies for the financing of approved transfers in respect of both trade and nontrade transactions. They may also freely accept deposits from nonresidents. Any borrowing abroad by authorized dealers to finance their domestic operations requires the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents who are private persons are permitted to acquire and hold gold coins for numismatic purposes only. Otherwise, any gold acquired in Barbados must be surrendered to an authorized dealer unless exchange control approval is obtained for its retention. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized deal- ers, and industrial users are not permitted to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes. Imports of gold by residents are permitted for industrial purposes and are subject to customs duties and charges. Licenses to import gold are issued by the Ministry of Trade, Indus try, and Commerce; no license is required to export gold. BARBADOS Changes during 1974 January 21. The Central Bank reduced its commis- sion charge on inward transfers of sterling from 5/i6 of I per cent to V8 of 1 per cent, and increased the charge on outward transfers of sterling from 3/8 of 1 per cent to Y2 of 1 per cent. January 25. The Central Bank's special arrange- ments for the purchase of Guyana banknotes were ter- minated. January 30. The Central Bank's special arrange- ments for the purchase of Jamaica banknotes were ter- minated. February 13. Exports of sugar to the United King- dom were suspended. February 28. Banknotes issued by the East Carib- bean Currency Authority ceased to be legal tender in Barbados. February 28. Exchange control was extended to transactions with residents of all Sterling Area countries and to transactions in the currencies of those countries. Sterling Area currencies other than the Bar- bados dollar henceforth were regarded as foreign cur- rencies. Current payments and capital transfers to Sterling Area countries ceased to be exempt from ex- change control approval. All securities payable or op- tionally payable in Sterling Area currencies other than Barbados dollars became foreign currency securities and were subject to deposit requirements. February 28. Nonresidents' purchases of real estate in Barbados required exchange control permission. Such purchases for private use were no longer allowed to be financed in part with local credit. March 1. Any borrowing abroad by authorized deal- ers to finance their domestic operations henceforth re- quired the approval of the Central Bank; commerical banks' borrowing in the Euro-currency markets subse- quently was restricted. March 1. Settlements with residents of other CARI- COM territories henceforth were required to be made in the currency of the territory concerned or in Barbados dollars to the debit or credit of an External Account. Previously, settlements could take place in any Sterling Area currency. March 1. The Central Bank henceforth would nor- mally accept exchange control applications only from authorized dealers and authorized depositaries, and no longer from attorneys, companies, and individuals. March 12. The Central Bank was prepared to con- sider applications for cash gifts to nonresidents in ex- cess of the previous limit of BDS$500 a donor a calendar year, provided there were compassionate grounds or special reasons for the gift. March 25. Exchange Control Circulars Nos. 10 and I1 advised authorized dealers regarding the distinction between residents and nonresidents, and set out the conditions under which they could conduct External Accounts for nonresidents. 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BARBADOS March 25. Circular No. 12 delegated to authorized dealers the au thor i ty to approve specified "sundry pay- ments" which were outside the scope of other circulars. They included "official payments," up to the amounts certified by the Permanent Secretary, the Accountant General, or the chief executive of the agency or board concerned, income tax refunds, and insurance premi- ums on policies expressed in foreign currencies (but not East Caribbean dollars) which were issued prior to March 1, 1974. March 25. Authorized dealers were given au thor i ty to release foreign exchange to cover cash gifts up to a limit of BDSS50 a donor a year. The basic exchange allocation for cash gifts remained unchanged at the equivalent of BDSS500 a donor a year, but permission had to be obtained from the Central Bank to utilize this allocation in full. March 29. Circular No. 15 set out the basic emigra- tion allowance for nationals at BDS$24,000 a fam i ly un it a year. March 29. The basic exchange allowance for private travel abroad by residents was increased from BDS$ 1,000 to BDS$ 1,500 a person a calendar year, and that for business travel from BDS$ 1,000 to BDS$4,500 a person a calendar year. Residents travel- ing abroad could carry on their person or in their lug- gage foreign currency in the form of notes and coins up to the equivalent of BDSS500 a person and Barbados notes up to BDSSIOO. March 29. Nonresidents trave l ing outside Barbados could obtain f rom authorized dealers a travel allowance of the equivalent of BDS$500 a person a calendar year for either private or business travel. They could obtain additional travel exchange if payment was made from an External Account, in any foreign currency, or with the proceeds of foreign currency previously b rought in to Barbados. March 29. The exchange allowance for educational expenses abroad was increased from BDS$2,500 to BDS$5,000 a person for an academic year. March 31. Barbados forma l ly w i thdrew f rom the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty. April 1. The extension of exchange control to the Sterling Area was ratified by Parliament by adoption of the Exchange Control (Amendment) Act 1974-13. April 5. The importation of 13 items (mainly food- s tu f fs) was banned, and the importation of 8 food items was put under specific licensing and made subject to a quo ta ( BDSS4.1 million for 1974). Impor ts of CAR ICOM origin were exempt. April 18. Impor ts of a few trade items (mostly f ru i t s, preserved vegetables, and paper products) from non-CARicoM sources were placed under specific li- censing. April 30. The British Caribbean Currency Board coin ceased to be legal tender in Barbados. May 17. Circular No. 16 dealt with foreign nationals holding work permits in Barbados and operating bank accounts locally. Where they were treated as nonresi- dents, their net salaries could be freely credited to an External Account, but debits for transfers to other Ex- ternal Accounts could not without Central Bank per- mission exceed in any year 25 per cent of the net annual salary credited to the account concerned. June 10. Circular No. 17 set out directions which should be observed in the granting of loans and over- drafts, the issue of guarantees and indemnities, and the issue of confirmation of bank credits by authorized dealers. June 10. Circular No. 18 advised authorized dealers that the normal exchange control directions regarding transactions between residents and nonresidents did not apply to persons resident in Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa; all applications involving persons resident in those countries had to be referred to the Central Bank. June 10. Circular No. 19 set out the circumstances in which authorized dealers could maintain Foreign Currency Accounts for residents and nonresidents. June 13. Exports of groundnuts were placed under license. July 9. Exports of tortoise shells were placed under license. August 13. Imports of certain soft drinks non-CARicoM sources required a specific license. August 26. Imports of metal bituminous and roofing material required a specific license. August 30. The de facto embargo on imports from Portugal was lifted. September 24. Imports of bottles, jars, appliances for use as cooking stoves, and applicances for the refrigera- tion and freezing of food required a specific license. October 25. Imports of flour, meal, and flakes of potato required a specific license. November 25. Imports of cigars, cheroots, and other manufactured tobacco required a specific license. from NOTES 1 The CAR ICOM countries are Antigua, Bahamas, Barba- dos, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montser- rat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 2 Foreign currencies comprise all currencies other than the Barbados dollar. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of f ine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc. Belgium and Luxembourg have established central rates of BF /Lux F 48.6572 = SDR 1, and avail themselves of wider margins. There are two spot exchange mar- kets —the official (reglementeor regulated) and the free; these markets are separated and foreign currency ac- quired in one may not be sold in the other. Most cur- rent transactions are settled in the official market and most capital transactions in the free market. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 Belgium-Luxembourg maintains a maximum margin of 2V4 per cent for exchange rates in the official market between the Belgian f ranc /Luxem- bourg franc and the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona, while a maximum margin of 1V2 per cent on either side of the cross-parity of BF 100 = f. 6.8953 or f. 1 = BF 14.5026 is maintained for the Netherlands guilder. No announced margins are maintained for any other currency. On December 31, 1974 the buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar in the official market were BF 36.0225 and BF 36.2225, respectively, per US$1. Most exchange transactions are settled through the of- ficial market. For all inward and outward payments in excess of BF 10 million through that market, support- ing documents must be submitted to the Belgo-Luxem- bourg Exchange Institute (Institut Belgo-Luxem- bourgeois du Change or IBLC). In the free exchange market, all currencies (including domestic and foreign banknotes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1974 the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 36.12 buying, and BF 36.20 selling, per US$ 1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one exchange market or the other must be used; in a few cases, however, there is freedom of choice as to the exchange market in which conversion is to be effected. In the official market, authorized banks in Belgi- um-Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of the convertible curren- cies; however, there are special regulations for the zai're. Nonbank residents may not acquire or surrender con- vertible currencies in the official spot market until a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward purchases and sales of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that the currencies thus acquired are used for the autho- rized settlement of obligations within 15 working days from delivery; exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Profits resulting from forward contracts not covering authorized inward or outward payments through the official market must be given up to the Treasury. Any resident or nonresi- dent, banks included, may deal in any currency in the free market. Exchange rates in the forward market are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Belgium and Luxembourg formally accepted the ob- ligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union —BLEU); the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Union is exercised by the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute. Exchange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935 (re- vised with effect from August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of January 29, 1963 and with effect from May 1, 1972 by a Protocol of October 27, 1971) conferred on the Bel- go-Luxembourg Administrative Commission the au- thority to license trade transactions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licens- ing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their nature, through the appro- priate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appro- priate category of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries2 and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classified in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, industrial expenses (e.g., costs of processing), and other commer- cial expenses, including insurance; List B covers settle- ments of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration pay- ments; List C covers (1) administration expenses, (2) income on securities, loans, etc., rents, and operating profits, and (3) repatriation of certain foreign long-term investments and transfers by emigrants of foreign na- 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG tionality; List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, family maintenance payments, capital investments, liq- uidation of investments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, trans- fers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when set- tled through travel agencies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are summarized in the accompanying table. In dealing with countries in the convertible area, trans- actions contained in Lists A and B must be settled through the official market (or, if made in Belgian and Luxembourg francs, through Convertible Accounts) and those contained in List D through the free market (or through Financial Accounts). Transactions in List C may be settled through either the official or the free market (or through either Convertible or Financial Ac- counts). Transactions that may or must be settled through the free market may also be effected in domes- tic or foreign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settlement de- scribed above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals. Payments for goods of Egyptian origin (other than rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum) are subject to special rules. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresi- dents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may be opened freely in the name of any nonresident.3 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements with residents which either must or may be made through the official market and for retransfer abroad through the official market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresi- dent of convertible currencies in the official market to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to other Convertible Accounts or be converted into any currency in the official market. Advances on Convert- ible Accounts other than mail-credit advances are sub- S UMM A RY OF P E RM I S S I B LE METHODS OF S E T T L EM ENT FOR F O R E I GN P A YM E N TS TRANS- A C T ION LIST C O U N T RY GROUP F O R E I GN C U R R E N CY E X C H A N GE M A R K ET N O N R E S I D E NT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Outward Payments Conv e r t ib le O f f ic ial Conv e r t ib le Conve r t ib le A ny O f f i c i al or f ree Free - Conve r t ib le Conv e r t ib le or F inanc ial F inanc ial B i l a t e r a l* A ,B C D Conve r t ib le A ny A ,B ,C ,D B i la te ral - Inward Payments A ,B C D A ,B C D Conve r t ib le Conve r t ib le Conv e r t ib le Conve r t ib le O ther O f f i c i al O f f i c i al or free Free Conve r t ib le /Conve r t ib le (or F inanc ial Conv e r t ib le A ny Free B i la teral Conve r t ib le O f f i c i al Bilateral Conver t ib le B i la te ral Any O f f ic ial or free Free Free F inanc ial B i la te ral or Conve r t ib le* Bilateral or Conve r t ib le* B i la te ra l* *B i l a t e r al A c c o u nt of t he c o u n t ry c o n c e r n e d. S e t t l em e n ts w i th ZaYre m ay a l t e r n a t i v e ly be m a de by d e b it or c r e d it to C o n v e r t i b le A c c o u n ts in z a i r es h e ld w i th b a n ks in Za i re. 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ject to authorization by the IBLC. Convertible Ac- counts may be held in the form of sight accounts (de- mand deposits), prior notice accounts, and time deposits. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries,4 and they are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used freely for settlements which either must or may be made through the free market and for retransfer abroad through the free market, and they may be credited freely with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free mar- ket. Domestic banknotes and proceeds from the sale in the free market of foreign banknotes, when deposited with authorized banks by foreign travelers in Belgi- um-Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad, may be credited freely to Financial Accounts. Transfers be- tween Financial Accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the free market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries,2 and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a non- resident of convertible currencies in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may also be made freely between Bilateral Accounts related to Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire. In practice, the authorities permit the conversion of bal- ances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign currencies in the offi- cial market. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Indi- vidual licenses are required for (1) all imports from Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam,5 and (2) a number of imports from all other countries except Luxembourg.6 The commodities for which individual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agricultural products and foodstuffs, coal and petroleum products, and diamonds. All other commodities are free of license and quantitative restriction; only a simple form completed by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment declaration) is required, which must be pre- sented to an authorized bank. Many commodities sub- ject to individual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock prod- ucts. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 50,000 in value. The autho- rized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired until the import payment is due. If these requirements are not fulfilled, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permis- sion. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for payments exceeding BF 10 million, and exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or six months after the date of customs clearance. Pay- ments for transit transactions must be made within three months from the date of any advance payment collected from the foreign buyer. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transac- tions included in Lists A and B must be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. Sup- porting documents must be presented to an authorized bank; for payments exceeding BF 10 million and in other exceptional cases, prior examination of the sup- porting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for items in List C may be made through either the official market (alternatively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Con- vertible Account) or through the free market (alterna- tively, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic bank- notes); payments for items in List D must be made through the free market (alternatively, by crediting Bel- gian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in foreign or domestic banknotes); payments to bilat- eral countries2 must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned; payments to Zaire, however, may also be made in zaires through a convertible ac- count in Zaire. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968. Individual licenses are required for specified exports to all countries except Luxembourg.7 All other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notifi- cation of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 50,000 in value. The autho- rized bank is required to make sure that export pro- 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG ceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Spe- cial authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank (i.e., sold in the official exchange market), or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an autho- rized bank if they are to be used later for current pay- ments authorized to be made in these currencies. Advance collection of export proceeds more than three mon ths before the expected date of exportation requires prior authorization of the IBLC; in addition, payments for exports to bilateral countries may not be received more than three months before the date foreseen for exportation; proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Prior examination of supporting documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceed- ing BF 10 million. Proceeds from In visibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisibles connected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) mus t, w i th in eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange market), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in For- eign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Prior examination of suppor t ing documents by the IBLC is required for receipts exceed- ing BF 10 million through the official market. Receipts in convertible currencies from transactions included in List C may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts from other transactions (List D) and receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free marke t. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic bankno tes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions w i th convertible area countries may be carried out freely through the free marke t, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capital transfers by individuals, including g if ts, fam i ly maintenance payments, remit- tances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg na t ion- ality, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial character, may also be made through the off i- cial marke t, subject to ind iv idual license. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Lux- embourg. In that case, capital brought in through the 70 official market (under special license, and as an excep- tion to the standard prescription of currency set out above) may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amortization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, pro- vided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresidents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regulations. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents. Public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the pur- chase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian compa- nies require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be made only in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilateral Accounts, or in the case of Zaire, in zai'res; inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries may be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through Bilat- eral Accounts, in any currency through the free market, or in the case of Zaire, in zai'res. The external position of authorized banks is subject to control. Banks in Belgium and Luxembourg have been requested not to allow their net external debtor spot positions (in foreign currency relating to the offi- cial market plus, vis-a-vis nonresidents, in Belgian francs and Luxembourg francs in Convertible Ac- counts) to increase beyond specified levels. In addition, a ceiling has been imposed on the net foreign asset positions of Belgian and Luxembourg banks (their net creditor spot positions in foreign currencies on the offi- cial market). Banks have also been instructed that their overall foreign currency position relating to the official market (spot and forward combined) should normally be close to balance and should not register a substantial creditor or debtor position. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the form of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. Settle- ments in respect of gold transactions with convertible area countries (other than payments for semiprocessed gold imported by professional users) may only be made th rough the free market, through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. No customs duties or other charges are levied on imports or exports of gold, except imports for industrial or hand ic ra ft purposes. Licenses are re- quired for imports of semiprocessed gold; these are issued to professional users, who have to make payment through the official marke t. Transactions in monetary ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG gold, i.e., coins and bars, are exempt from value-added tax in Belgium. Changes during 1974 January 1. The negative interest charge ("commis- sion") levied by banks in Belgium and Luxembourg on accruals to balances in Convertible Accounts was sus- pended. January 2. The Japanese yen was included among the officially quoted currencies. January 21. Official intervention to maintain 2V BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG embourg implemented an indemnification agreement w i th Egypt signed on June 16, 1971. October 15. The Luxembourg Bank ing Control Com- missioner issued guidelines to all banks operating in Luxembourg w i th respect to foreign exchange dealings. No tab ly, banks were advised (1) to appoint an execu- tive board member for the daily supervision of foreign exchange operations; (2) to ensure that all oral transac- tions were wr i t ten down on the same day and counter- signed by the responsible controller; (3) to ma in ta in a clear separation of func t ion between bookkeeping oper- ations and foreign exchange dealings; and (4) to forbid foreign exchange dealers from entering into transac- tions on their own account. October 21. With effect from October 28, Belgian and Luxembourg banks were required to report daily both the opening and l iqu ida t ion of forward exchange contracts in foreign currencies against Belgian or Lux- embourg francs, classifying them according to whether they were transacted (1) on the official or free market or (2) with nonresidents, resident banks, or other resi- dents. Total fo rwa rd exchange transactions between two foreign currencies were also to be reported. October 22. Banks in Luxembourg were required to submit mon th ly reports on their forward positions on the free market (claims and liabilities) in all currencies in which the uncovered risk exceeded BF /L ux F 25 million, with effect from October 31. November 5. Commercial banks in Belgium were per- mitted to expand medium-term export credits w i thout limit and short-term export credits at a 24 per cent annual growth rate; previously, the max imum growth for both was 14 per cent. November 7. The IBLC issued a clarification to the effect that the reporting of forward exchange transac- tions by banks in Belgium and Luxembourg was to include forward operations with a term of five days or less; such transactions had to be indicated separately. December 4. Investment funds operating in Luxem- bourg were required to submit quarterly reports on their portfolio holdings. December 6. Banks in Luxembourg were informed tha t, w i th minor modifications, the restrictions on credit granted in francs to Belgian firms and firms es- tablished in Belgium were being extended by six mon ths until June 30, 1975 (or until such earlier date as the Belgian restrictions on the growth of bank credit m ight be terminated). December 6. The banking agreements in Luxem- bourg on a special commission and on monetary re- serve requirements were extended through the calendar year 1975. The reserve requirement against balances in Convertible Accounts and the special commission on such balances would, until fu r ther notice, remain un- changed at zero per cent. December 17. Banks in Luxembourg were required to submit quar ter ly reports on the ma tur i ty structure of their claims and liabilities in foreign currencies, with effect from the end of February 1975. NOTES 1 The currencies dealt w i th in the official market are Aus- tralian dollars, Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Ital- ian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kro- ner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. A l though Zairian currency (the zaire) is officially quoted, the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union does not permit the use of the zaire in settlements with countries other than Zaire, or the exchange of the zaire for convertible Bel- gian f rancs or other convertible currencies. The Australian dollar and the South African rand, although traded in the official market, are not officially quoted. 2 The bilateral group countries are Burund i, Rwanda, and Zaire. The BLEU is not a party, however, to any bilateral payments agreements. 3 In te rna t ional organizations and foreign diplomatic repre- sentations established in the BLEU maintain Special Ac- counts, which are equivalent to Convertible Accounts but are not subject to the restrictions applicable to the latter. Foreign employees of the organizations and representations men- tioned may maintain Special Convertible Accounts. 4 Foreign diplomats, foreign nationals employed by diplo- matic representations accredited in the BLEU and by speci- fied international organizations situated in the BLEU, individuals residing in Burundi, Rwanda, or Zaire, and BLEU nationals residing abroad temporarily for professional reasons are authorized to maintain Assimilated Resident Ac- counts. 5 Impo rt licenses are issued freely for a large number of commodities when originating in and shipped from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 6 Most impor ts in the last group do not require an import license when imported f rom the Netherlands or from other EEC countries. 7 Most exports do not require an export license when ex- ported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0409256 gram of fine gold per Bolivian Peso. A central rate has been established of $b 20 = US$1. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency and Bolivia avails itself of wider margins. For operational purposes, the exchange market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the pri- vate sector. The Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the public sector, buying foreign exchange from the Gov- ernment, the official enterprises, including the Bolivian Mining Corporation (COMIBOL), and private export firms, and selling foreign exchange to the Banco del Estado, the commercial banks and exchange houses, and the Government and its official agencies. The com- mercial banks and exchange houses purchase exchange accruing to the private sector on account of capital and invisibles, and they cover all foreign exchange require- ments of the private sector. The exchange rate of the Central Bank on December 31, 1974 was $b 20.00 buying, and $b 20.02 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax, a 2 per mill stamp tax, and a 1 per mill bank ing commission. Accordingly, the effec t ive selling rate of the commercial banks and exchange houses on the same date was $b 20.40 per US$1. Bolivia forma l ly accepted the obligations of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements w i th Hung a ry and Poland are channeled through special accounts. l Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Settle- ments are usually made in U.S. dollars or other con- vertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and U ruguay may be made th rough accounts maintained with each other by the central banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies requ ire the prior authorization of the M in is t ry of Indu s t ry and Commerce; they are not permitted to impo rt commodi- ties also available in Bolivia. Private impor ts of certain commodities also require such prior authorization; these goods inc lude live cattle, various food s tu f f s, and petroleum and petroleum products. The impo rt of ciga- rettes, cement, and certain other locally produced goods is proh ib i ted. All other goods may be imported f ree ly. Exchange to pay for impor ts may be purchased freely from commercial banks. Most foreign credits, inc lud ing o f f ic ia l ly guaranteed suppliers' credits, are subject to authorization by the National Economic and Planning Council and to control by the Financing In- stitute. Most private sector imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 1 per cent ad valorem. Most imports also are subject to "additional tax" and to an 8 per cent tax on services rendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely. Resi- dents of Bolivian or foreign na t iona l i ty must pay a travel tax when leaving the coun t ry. The tax is $b 150 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 60 for over- land travel to such countries, $b 300 for air travel to other Latin American countries, and $b 400 for air travel to countries outside Latin America. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not normally subject to licensing, al- though certain exports may be prohibited or restricted f rom time to time owing to domestic supply factors. All proceeds f rom exports of the public and private sectors must be sold to the Central Bank within 15 days of receipt, with the exception of reasonable amounts de- ducted for fore ign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. The marke t ing of minerals is a state monopoly; in practice, COMIBOL and the medium-sized mines export their own production and COMIBOL and the M in ing Bank most of that of the small mines of the private sector. The small mines may export the rest of their production themselves or through traders. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be retained or sold in the exchange market. Capital Ou twa rd capital transfers by residents or nonresi- dents are free of control and may be made freely; in- ward capital t rans fe rs also may be made freely, but government receipts of transfers and grants and all proceeds of borrow ings f rom foreign public sector agencies must be surrendered to the Central Bank. All fore ign credits, inc lud ing suppliers' credits, to govern- ment agencies and autonomous entities, and credits to the private sector with official guarantees, are subject to prior authorization by the National Economic and P lann ing Council and to control by the Financing In- stitute. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involv- ing petroleum and m in ing, are governed by the provi- sions of the Investment Law of December 16, 1971. The law is administered by the National Investment Ins t i tu te. Inves tmen ts in petroleum and m in ing are 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA governed by the General Hydrocarbons Law and the M in ing Code. Gold By virtue of Supreme Decree No. 07771 of Au- gust 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domestic trad ing in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. The Decree also designated the Central Bank to purchase, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. Supreme Decree No. 8635 of Janua ry 29, 1969 fu r ther regulated the purchase and sale of gold, silver, and p la t inum by the Central Bank and the M in ing Bank. The Central Bank purchases gold at the free market price, but only as a ma rke t ing agency for the M in ing Bank, and not for its own account. COMIBOL exports all the gold it pro- duces at the free market price. One private company and the Mining Bank are also allowed to export gold at the free market price. The M in ing Bank is authorized to sell a specified quan t i ty of gold annua l ly to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remain- der to the Central Bank. Residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Changes during 1974 February 13. Supreme Decree No. 11345 provided for rebates on taxes and duties for several industrial inpu ts. These rebates were to be phased out during 1974 and 1975. February 18. Supreme Decree No. 11333 reduced ex- port taxes (regalias) on metals. In June, fu r ther reduc- tions took place. February 22. Decree-Law No. 11358 l if ted for 90 days the import licensing requirement for certain food- s tu f f s. April 22. Supreme Decree No. 11450 permitted for- eign f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions to establish themselves in Bo- livia, provided they promoted productive activities. June 14. Supreme Decree No. 11520 created a Fi- nanc ing In s t i tu te which would be in charge of the coor- d ina t ion, programm ing, and attraction of external credit. June 28. Supreme Decree No. 11550 authorized for- eign banks in Bolivia to continue to accept deposits beyond the June 1974 deadline set by Decree No. 9998 of 1971. NOTE 1 Bilateral paymen ts arrangemen ts agreed w i th Bulgaria did not come in to operation dur ing 1974. 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange and Trade System Botswana's currency is the South African Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par value, since an exchange rate policy of indepen- dent managed floating has been adopted. The South African Reserve Bank on December 31, 1974 quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.4500 per R 1. Exchange rates are based on the South African Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against rand and the London market rates for the currencies con- cerned against the U.S. dollar. Botswana has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. De facto, Botswana also forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control territory comprising Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. For purposes of exchange con- trol over transactions in securities or gold, residents of a member country of the latter area are not regarded as residents of another member country. The Ministry of Finance and Development Planning controls all exter- nal currency transactions. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle these are uncon- trolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Botswana applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, although Botswana's treatment of certain capi- tal transfers may be more liberal. Payments to nonresi- dents for current transactions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for outward trans- fers of capital are considered on their merits. The rul- ings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Authority to approve some types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to estab- lished limits; this is true, for example, of the basic ex- change allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Botswana is a member of a customs union with Leso- tho, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Botswana imports goods direct from countries out- side the customs union, such imports are usually li- censed in conformity with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange re- quired to make the import payment. Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons. Furthermore, goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Rhodesia by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided that they are not intended for re-export; imports of Rhodesian beer, tobacco, and cigarettes are not permitted, however. Changes during 1974 June 24. South Africa discontinued the existing prac- tice of maintaining a fixed rate of exchange between the rand and the U.S. dollar for lengthy periods and, in- stead, adopted an exchange rate policy of independent managed floating. A new middle rate was set for the U.S. dollar at R 1 - US$1.50 (formerly R 1 = US$1.49). The middle rate was changed in 1974 on a number of occasions. August 22. Botswana notified the Fund that it ac- cepted the Voluntary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. September 6. It was announced that within two years Botswana would establish a central bank and issue its own currency, which would replace the rand as legal tender. Botswana withdrew from the negotiations with South Africa, Lesotho, and Swaziland on a formaliza- tion and revision of the Rand Monetary Area arrange- ments. Past arrangements would continue, however, until the central bank started operations. September 6. Swaziland issued its own currency, the lilangeni, which was at par with the rand. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was established by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Brazil follows a flexible exchange rate policy. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of Brazil, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The Central Bank operates in foreign exchange in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, and the Bank of Brazil undertakes exchange transactions in the name of the Central Bank in other parts of the country. The exchange houses deal only in banknotes and travel- ers checks in a "manual market." Uniformity between the rates quoted by the monetary authorities and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authorities of standing ready to purchase exchange from the banks and to sell it to the banks on an adequate basis, for approved transac- tions; such purchases and sales are made at the official rate. On December 31, 1974, the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were Cr$7.395 and Cr$7.435 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks for transactions other than in banknotes or travelers checks were the same (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). The same exchange rates are applicable to "agreement dollars" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries. Rates for other currencies are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the rates for the currencies con- cerned in New York and Europe. With specified excep- tions, foreign exchange transactions are subject to brokerage fees, calculated on a sliding scale, which for the rates listed above result in effective rates within 1 per cent on either side of the rates of the monetary authorities. On the buying side, other effective rates result from the following arrangements: (1) special regulations ap- ply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Ex- port Proceeds, below); (2) a 10 per cent contribution ("contribution quota" or quota de contribu$do) is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and products;1 (3) a contribution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds from exports of raw hides of wild animals, and one of 5 per cent on export proceeds from tanned or processed hides of wild animals; and (4) a contribution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds from exports of quartz chips.2 On the selling side, a different effective rate arises from the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below), which spec- ifies that the sum of profits and dividends effectively remitted to persons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the aver- age of actual remittances in any three-year period is in 76 excess of 12 per cent a year of registered capital and reinvestment. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a considerable proportion of all exchange transactions. The following arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large por- tion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Pe- trobras surrenders to the Bank its entire foreign exchange proceeds from certain exports of petroleum. (2) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company also are surrendered to the Bank of Brazil. (3) All public sector agencies carry out their exchange operations through the Bank of Brazil. (4) Furthermore, exporters in regions not served by other banks sell their exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government at the exchange rate prevailing on the date the transaction is made. Like the other commercial banks the Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for payments in respect of a large number of imports, including crude oil and petroleum products, wheat, newsprint, fertilizers, and the require- ments of the Vale do Rio Doce Company. The Central Bank handles all exchange transactions in bilateral cur- rencies and exchange transactions related to imports under U.S. aid (by transferring exchange to authorized banks or vice versa). The authorized banks are required to surrender to the Central Bank or to the Bank of Brazil (operating for the account of the Central Bank), at the close of each business day, any foreign exchange in excess of a net position of US$25,000 for each branch. The Central Bank and the Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank, supply foreign exchange to autho- rized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position of up to US$500,000 and limited to 90 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank concerned to its customers; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (bank- notes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same trading center; transfers be- tween branches of the same bank in different trading centers are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. In addition, since March 1971, exchange transactions have been permitted between banks in Rio de Janeiro and banks in Sao Paulo; such transactions may be car- ried out either by cable on a spot basis or on a forward basis and must be executed within 2 working days for spot transactions or not later than after 180 days for forward transactions. Since April 1972 authorized banks have also been permitted to engage in arbitrage among themselves when operating in the same trading center or between establishments in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The "manual market" is conducted mainly ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by exchange houses, which are not permitted to main- tain a sold position and are not entitled to obtain ex- change cover from the monetary authorities. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council, chaired by the Minister of Finance, is responsible for the formulation of overall foreign exchange policy. In accordance with the guidelines established by the Council, and under the supervision of the Director in charge of Foreign Ex- change Operations of the Central Bank, exchange con- trol is operated by the Central Bank's Exchange Operations Department (GECAM) and Department for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (FIRCE); the latter processes the registration of foreign capital for the purpose of its repatriation and of the remittance of income therefrom; it also exercises ap- proval authority over the terms of foreign financing of imports for periods in excess of 360 days. Certain bor- rowing abroad requires the prior approval of the inter- ministerial Foreign Loans Commission (CEMPEX). The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX), chaired by the Minister of Industry and Commerce and established within his Ministry, formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's executive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's deci- sions within Brazil. The Foreign Trade Department issues export and import certificates (guias de expor- tacdoand guias de importafdo), and verifies price quota- tions, weights, measures, classifications, and types in import operations. CACEX also is in charge of approving import financing with terms of up to 360 days. Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Institute (IBC), which is an autonomous body respon- sible to the Minister of Industry and Commerce and operates within the general guidelines of the National Monetary Council. The Customs Policy Council (CPA), established within the Ministry of Finance, is responsible for for- mulating guidelines for tariff policy, subject to the legal powers of the National Monetary Council and the Na- tional Council of Foreign Trade. The CPA also decides on changes in customs duties under the provisions of existing legislation. The import policy of the public sector is coordinated by the Committee for the Coordi- nation of Foreign Purchasing Policy (CCPCE). Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically pre- scribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agreement countries are made in clearing dollars through the relevant agreement account. These ac- counts are maintained with Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Po- BRAZIL land, Romania, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries with which Brazil has no payments agree- ments or arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Reciprocal credit agree- ments providing for settlements through accounts de- nominated in U.S. dollars are in force with Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay. Proceeds from exports to Latin American member countries of the Inter-American Development Bank, other than Argentina, Mexico, and Venezuela, may be received in the currency of the importing coun- try. Imports and Import Payments Special arrangements described below apply to im- ports of petroleum and petroleum products. The im- port of recreational boats of a value of over US$3,500 and of commodities originating in or shipped from Cuba and Rhodesia is prohibited. Furthermore, unless, as an exception, the prior authorization of the President is obtained, there is a prohibition on the direct import of consumer goods (and on the purchase on the domes- tic market of any imported consumer goods) by the public and semipublic sector (direct organs of the Gov- ernment, autonomous agencies, public enterprises, and companies with mixed public and private participa- tion). All other imports may be grouped into the fol- lowing two broad categories: (1) imports that are free of any requirement to secure prior administrative docu- mentation, e.g., samples without commercial value, cer- tain educational material, parts and accessories (valued up to the equivalent of US$5,000) for machinery, in- struments, ships, and aircraft; and (2) imports that re- quire an import certificate. The bulk of imports falls into the second category. The import certificate is is- sued subject to the presentation of data on the foreign price of the commodity and other relevant information CACEX may require. Import certificates are issued on an f.o.b. basis; as a rule, they are issued freely and without undue delay and are valid for 90 or 180 days, depending on the commodity (60 days for goods subject to price controls). For a number of specified imports in the second category, the import certificate may be obtained after the disembarkation of the commodity in Brazil, e.g., live plants, fish, various minerals, and paper. For certain other imports in the second category the prior approval of CACEX is required; these include goods im- ported by public bodies,3 imports for which tariff con- cessions are being sought, goods to be brought in with foreign financing with terms between 180 and 360 days, certain imports without exchange cover, goods for use in fairs and trade exhibitions, and used instruments, machinery, and equipment. Most commodities subject to an import certificate are exempt from this require- ment when the value of the import transaction does not exceed US$2,000. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange contract is closed. How- 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL ever, the maximum period for which payments for im- ports may be delayed is 180 days from the date of shipment; this period may be extended to 360 days at the discretion of CACEX for imports of raw materials, spare parts for direct use by the importer, and capital goods which are not produced domestically. Cash pay- ment on sight is prescribed for goods subject to import duty at a rate of 55 per cent or more.4 Financing ar- rangements for imports in which credit terms exceed 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Any bona fide interest involved in the above credit arrangements is approved freely. Spot contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled within 2 work- ing days. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened, or to pay for goods already shipped. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Commercial banks ordinarily re- quire a guarantee deposit for their own protection for forward exchange contracts; the amount of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. In certain cases, interest at about 0.5 per cent a mon th is charged on the portion of the forward contract not covered by a deposit. Advance payments in amounts up to US$300 for imports of books may be made without prior authorization. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petrobras concludes for each import transaction an in- dividual foreign exchange contract at the selling rate prevailing on the day of the closing of the exchange contract. At the same time, the Bank of Brazil con- cludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position, for an amount equivalent to the value of the individual contract at the exchange rate at which the Central Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks. In establishing the selling rate to be applied to the liquidation of the contract, the selling rate used is that which prevailed ten days prior to the date of the latest f ix ing of the domestic price of petro- leum by the National Petroleum Council (NPC). The difference, if any, between the rate of the contract con- cluded between Petrobras and the Bank of Brazil and the rate used at the liquidation of that exchange con- tract is borne by the NPC. Payments by Petrobras against such contracts are made in the following man- ner: for collections, 100 per cent upon the liquidation of the contract covering the importation, and for letters of credit, 10 per cent when the letter of credit is issued and 90 per cent upon the liquidation of the contract. For some commodities, the application of import duties may be affected by the existence of similares 78 nationals or the establishment of a minimum import price (pauta de valor minimo) or of a reference price. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and technical assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Invest- ment Law. In addition to certain restrictions on remit- tances stipulated in that law, limits are placed, by virtue of an internal Central Bank measure of September 18, 1965, on remittances of all royalties and technical assis- tance fees (see below). Authorized banks may sell for- eign exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a month for personal remittances abroad. The sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad is subject to special regula- tions as described below. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of GECAM, or FIRCE, which authorizes remittances freely, subject to the pre- sentation of supporting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are permitted up to US$ 1,000 a person a trip, without the prior approval of the Central Bank, on the following terms: (1) in bank- notes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders or travelers checks for the remainder. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which con- siders each case on its merits; amounts in excess of US$1,000, when authorized, may be taken up in the form of payment orders only. Foreign residents in tran- sit in Brazil are permitted to purchase foreign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in Brazil; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Each pur- chase transaction is registered and the records of these operations which must contain the names of clients, are submitted daily to the Central Bank. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign investments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are gov- erned by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regulations implementing the For- eign Investment Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). The registration of contracts or deeds for technical assistance or the use of patents or trademarks is subject to the furnishing of proof that the document has been approved by the National Ins t i tu te of Industrial Property. Remittances are normally authorized in the currency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization payments are permitted freely in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the certificate of registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on remittances to persons and companies resident abroad of earnings on foreign capital if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For foreign capital that pro- duces goods or services for luxury consumption, remit- tances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of the registered capital. Remittances of royalties by a branch or subsidiary established in Brazil to its head office abroad are not permitted when 50 per cent or more of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Remittances of tech- nical assistance fees (either with or without the use of trademarks and patents) are not permitted, as a rule, when remuneration for such services exceeds specified percentages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent, of gross receipts from the sale or manufacture of given products for which such payments are incurred abroad. The percentages are the same as those established in Brazil's taxation laws for determining the maximum permissible deductions for such expenses. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign bank- notes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are free of licensing requirements but require an export certificate issued by CACEX to ensure compli- ance with the requirements of exchange and trade regu- lations. Some exports are free of controls, but exports of many commodities require prior approval of CACEX, while exports of specified commodities are prohibited, including certain primary products and raw materials required for domestic consumption, and exports of cer- tain other commodities are conditional on prior domes- tic sales. Exports requiring approval include those effected through bilateral accounts or payable in incon- vertible currencies, exports without exchange cover, ex- ports on consignment, re-exports, commodities for which minimum export prices are fixed by CACEX, and exports requiring prior authorization by government agencies. Exports of certain commodities, including beef, are subject to an annual quota. Exports of coffee are subject to authorization by the IBC. The IBC does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the minimum registration price (in U.S. dollars a pound, f.o.b.) fixed from time to time by the IBC. The minimum registration price varies with the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. Exporters of green coffee are required to surrender, without compensation, a portion of their proceeds in the form of a contribution quota. The cruzeiro proceeds from the contribution quota are transferred to the Coffee Defense Fund. The contribu- BRAZIL tion quota is set from time to time by the IBC and is fixed in terms of foreign currency; on December 31, 1974 it was US$29.76 a bag.5 The contribution quota is adjusted whenever the exchange rate for the cruzeiro is changed in order to ensure that exporters' returns in cruzeiros, at the minimum registration price, remain unchanged. Exporters may convert exchange proceeds, after de- duction of the contribution quota, at the prevailing official market rate of exchange. Thus, the effective exchange rate for exports of coffee depends on (1) the amount of the contribution quota, (2) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars a pound), and (3) the official market rate of exchange. On December 31, 1974, the minimum registration prices, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment, were US$0.64, US$0.63, US$0.60, and US$0.585 a pound. The corresponding cruzeiro payments a bag, after de- duction of the contribution quota, were Cr$404.65, Cr$394.89, Cr$365.61, and Cr$350.97. Thus the ex- change rates for proceeds from coffee exports on sales at the minimum registration price were Cr$4.790, Cr$4.749, Cr$4.616, and Cr$4.545 per US$1. The ef- fective exchange rate for coffee exports is higher to the extent that sales are made in excess of the minimum registration price. A special regime of individual quotas is applied for exports of soluble coffee to all markets. Proceeds of exports of spray-dried soluble coffee in excess of indi- vidual quotas are subject to a contribution quota. On December 31, 1974, the minimum registration price for spray-dried soluble coffee was US$1.45 a pound and the contribution quota was US$0.05 a pound. Thus the exchange rate for proceeds from exports of soluble cof- fee in excess of individual quotas on sales at the mini- mum registration price was Cr$7.140 per US$1; the minimum registration price for freeze-dried soluble cof- fee was US$2.15 a pound, and exports were exempt from individual quotas. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, within the limits of the official market, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa products are required to surrender without compensa- tion 10 per cent of their exchange proceeds (but see note 1). The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plan- tation improvement for cocoa. Furthermore, a contri- bution quota of 10 per cent is applied to proceeds from exports of unprocessed hides of wild animals, one of 5 per cent on export proceeds from tanned or processed hides of wild animals, and one of 10 per cent on export proceeds from quartz chips (but see note 2). A large number of fiscal incentives apply to exports, principally of manufactured commodities. These incen- tives include exemptions from indirect and income taxes, customs duties, and certain fees and charges, as well as credits related to the amount of exemption from tax liability. Various lines of credit for exporters, some at preferential rates of interest, are provided by the 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Bank of Brazil and the commercial banks. These financ- ing facilities include both export financing and the fi- nancing of production and warehousing for export, particularly for manufactures. In addition, assistance is provided to exporters in the field of export credit insur- ance and by way of guarantees. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles must be sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and for- eign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Trav- elers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows in the form of financial loans under Central Bank Resolution No. 63 (as amended) or un- der the provision of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131) are subject to ceilings and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The prior approval of CEMPEX is also required for borrowing by the public sector, when the foreign funds originate with official financial institutions abroad for borrowing by the pri- vate sector, and when the transaction is to be guaran- teed by the National Treasury or, on its behalf, by any official credit institution. Moreover, import financing with credit terms exceeding 360 days in amounts over US$500,000 requires the prior approval of the Central Bank. Furthermore, certain borrowing abroad is sub- ject in principle to deposit requirements which as at the end of 1974 were suspended (see below). Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of control, although the subsequent utilization of the proceeds for the acquisition of certain domestic assets may be sub- ject to control. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, inward transfers of for- eign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined for this purpose as (1) goods, machinery, and equipment which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquarters abroad. Foreign capital is classified, for purposes of registra- tion, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or of goods, and it includes rein- vested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that foreign capital which constitutes part of the corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inherent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capi- tal that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise that does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to 80 purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manufacturer himself or by a third party, is consid- ered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Loans are considered to be cash loans when monetary or fi- nancial resources are brought into Brazil. For financial imports and for investments made in the form of goods, registration is made in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign cur- rency it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the original market of the loan, that the amortization schedule is not dispro- portionately heavy in the early stages of repayment, and, in the case of import financing loans, that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If the terms of financing are approved, CACEX examines the applications for some foreign borrowing in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similares nationals. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accrued to persons or companies resident or domi- ciled abroad; such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The registration of reinvested profits is made simultaneously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing be- tween the date on which the profits appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the date of their reinvestment. Special regulations govern borrowing abroad. Under Central Bank Resolution No. 63, as amended, private commercial and investment banks and the National Bank for Economic Development may be authorized to take up foreign currency credits abroad for domestic relending for purposes of financing working capital. The certificate of registration of the loan for the pur- poses of the Foreign Investment Law is furnished by FIRCE upon approval of the loan by the Central Bank. Safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obligations that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the bank) and the provision that the ultimate borrower must agree to bear the exchange risk. The Central Bank assures the availability of cover for the repatriation of the loan at maturity. All other financial loans in foreign currency are effected under the general provisions of the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131). Loans under this law also require prior Central Bank authorization, but the Central Bank does not undertake to provide exchange cover for them. Loans under Resolution No. 63 as well as those under ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Law No. 4131 must have a minimum term of five years but no maximum term is set. Under a program for the management of external debt, the National Monetary Council has since Decem- ber 1971 imposed quantitative limits on the amount of financial loans under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4131 for which authorization may be given by the Central Bank. Loans are authorized only if maturities conform with minimum requirements established from time to time by the Central Bank, which permits the total of loans outstanding to rise only to the extent that the servicing commitments on Brazil's total external indebtedness do not depart from the path approved by the National Monetary Council. At the end of 1974 the Central Bank's minimum acceptable maturity stood at five years. However, provided that the full amount of the foreign exchange remains committed to Brazil for the minimum specified maturity, loans to the final bor- rower in Brazil, as well as loans to banks under Resolu- tion No. 63, may be made at terms shorter than the final maturity of the debt abroad and these funds may subsequently be re-lent to the same or a second bor- rower. New foreign currency loans in the form of financial credits under Resolution No. 63 and Law No. 4 1 31 are subject in principle to a deposit requirement of 40 Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 3 1, 1 9 7 4 )1 BRAZIL per cent of the cruzeiro equivalent of the foreign ex- change proceeds of loans. (This deposit requirement has been suspended, however, since February 8, 1974.) When enforced, the requirement is subject to the fol- lowing regulations. The deposit is held at the Central Bank, which bears the exchange risk on the deposit. The deposit earns no interest, and is returned to the borrower proportionately with each amortization un- der the loan agreement. Loans registered prior to Au- gust 31, 1973 and renegotiated by borrowers 30 days prior to their original maturity are exempt from the deposit requirement. Renewed loans could be con- tracted with the original lender or with new lenders and must be consistent with the conditions for loans laid down by the Central Bank. Also exempt are loans from international agencies or foreign governments and sup- pliers' credits on imports of commodities originating in industrial countries. Banks are not permitted to pay interest on demand deposits, whether held by residents or nonresidents. Outward capital transfers not mentioned above re- quire authorization by GECAM, which considers appli- cations on their merits. Approved exchange transactions involving outward transfers of private cap- ital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at the prevailing official market rate. Buying (cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) Selling 4.545-4.790 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Registration Price)2 Expo r ts of green co f fee e f fec ted at a pr ice equal to the m in imum reg i s t ra t ion pr ice, for p a ym e nt at s igh t. 6.656 (Official Market Rate less 10% Contribution Quota) Expo r ts of cocoa beans and cocoa p rodu c t s. E x p o r ts of raw hides of wild an ima ls. E x p o r ts of q u a r tz chips. 7.025 (Official Market Rate Quota) Expo r ts of tanned or processed hides of w i ld an ima ls. less 5% Contribution 7.140 (Calculated on the Basis of Official Market Rate, Contribution Quota, and Minimum Registration Price) Expo r ts of sp ray -d r ied soluble co f fee in excess of in- d iv idual quo t a s. 7.395 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign b a n k n o t es and t r av e l e rs checks. 7.435 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign b a n k n o t es and t r av e l e rs checks. 7.395 (Official Market Rate) A ll o t h er expo rt p roceeds except those f r om beef ex- por ts. O ther rece ip t s. 7.435 (Official Market Rate) Impo r t s. Invisibles.3 Capital. 1 E x c l u d i ng b r o k e r a ge fees. 2 The m i n im um r e g i s t r a t i on p r i ce ( in U .S. d o l l a rs a pound) var ies w i th the q u a l i ty of the co f f ee and the port of s h i pm e n t. The ra tes shown m a ke a l l ow an ce for p a ym e nt of the c o n t r i b u t i on q u o t a, wh ich on December 3 1, 1 9 74 was U S $ 2 9 . 76 a bag. 3 A d i f f e r ent e f f e c t ive ra te app l ies to cer ta in rem i t tances of pro f i ts and d iv id ends (see sect ion on Paym en ts for Inv is ib les, above). 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Brazil. Gold mining is ruled by Law No. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Residents other than the mone- ta ry authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special permission is obtained from the Central Bank. SUMOC Instruction No. 27 of December 1948 stipulated that producers of gold must sell 20 per cent of their output to the Na- tional Treasury, through the Bank of Brazil, at the official market price, i.e., then at US$35 an ounce; the other 80 per cent would remain at the free disposal of the person concerned. However, this provision was in force until December 1962 only, and the monetary au- thorities do not deal in gold. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold, which takes place at free market prices, is subject to a mining tax of 1 per cent. The mining tax may be offset against the other tax liabilities if and when gold is manufactured. The import of gold is subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX; imports of native gold and of gold in the form of powder are free of customs du ty. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler) requires an export certifi- cate. Changes during 1974 January 1. A new program for exports of coffee came into force which had been announced by the IBC on December 24, 1973, as follows: (1) export shipments during the first half of 1974 would be sharply curtailed, compared with the same period of 1973; (2) the IBC would no longer negotiate sales of coffee with foreign buyers; (3) minimum registration prices for green coffee would be raised over the period January-June, in monthly steps, to US$0.620-0.680 a pound, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment; and (4) contribution quotas on exports of green coffee would be reduced from US$31.45 to US$21.50 a bag in Janu- ary and would then be raised, in monthly steps, to US$28.50 a bag in June. January 1. The provisions of IBC Resolution No. 812 of December 24, 1973 came into force. They increased the minimum registration prices for exports of green coffee, in amounts ranging from US$0.035 to US$0.05 a pound for shipments between January and June. The minimum registration prices for shipments in June were established at US$0.68, US$0.67, US$0.64, and US$0.625 a pound, depending on the grade of coffee and the port of shipment. Contribution quotas on exports of green coffee during the first six months of 1974 were established at US$21.50, US$22.35, US$23.35, US$24.85, US$26.55, and US$28.50 a bag for shipments in January, February, March, April, May, and June, respectively. Minimum registration 82 prices for exports of spray-dried soluble coffee were fixed at US$1.33, US$1.34, and US$1.35 a pound for shipments during April, May, and June, respectively. The minimum registration price for exports of freeze-dried soluble coffee shipped from April to June 30 was fixed at US$2.00 a bag. The contribution quota on exports of spray-dried soluble coffee was reduced to US$0.05 a pound for shipments from January 1 to June 30. January L By virtue of IBC Resolution No. 743 of October 3, 1973, the minimum registration prices for shipments during January and February of spray-dried and freeze-dried soluble coffee were increased from US$1.26 and US$1.91 a pound to US$1.28 and US$1.94 a pound, respectively. January L The restrictions on exports of raw groundnuts expired which had been imposed by CACEX Communication No. 450 of November 7, 1973. January L An export quota for 1974 of 80,000 tons of beef came into force which had been established by Central Bank Resolution No. 271 of November 19, 1973. January L The revised customs tariff contained in Decree-Law No. 1295 of December 21, 1973 came into force. January L Decree-Law No. 1299 of December 28, 1973 came into force. It empowered the Customs Pol- icy Council to increase import duties from January 1974 until December 1975. This replaced the Council's authority under Decree-Law No. 1169 of April 29, 1971 to increase import duties by up to 100 percentage points. January L CACEX Communication No. 461 of De- cember 29, 1973 came into effect. It restricted exports of pinewood; a quota of 500,000 cubic meters was set for 1974. January 2. CPA Resolution No. 2009 exempted from import du ty, un t il the end of 1974, tires and tubes for trucks and buses. January 9. The Minister of Mines and Energy an- nounced that the volume of oil imports in the first half of 1974 would be reduced by 5 per cent. January 9. CPA Resolution No. 1993 suspended for one year the import duties on certain iron and steel products. (This measure was revoked by CPA Resolu- tion No. 2203.) January 9. CPA Resolution No. 1997 reduced to zero per cent for one year the import duties on certain sizes of tires, especially for agricultural tractors. With effect from February 1, this suspension was extended to other types of tires by CPA Resolution No. 2009. January 10. Decree-Law No. 1306 extended until the end of 1977 the exemption from customs duties and the industrial products tax on imports by manufactur- ers for their own use (imports up to 10 per cent of the increase in their export sales during the preceding year). January 18. CPA Resolution No. 1999 suspended for one year the import duty on a quota of 40,000 tons of aluminum and aluminum alloys. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 21. A contribution quota of 10 per cent was applied to proceeds from exports of raw hides of wild animals, and one of 5 per cent on export proceeds from tanned or processed hides of wild animals. The export prohibition of April 1971 was lifted (Central Bank Res- olution No. 276). January 30. CPA Resolution No. 2002 increased by 50 percentage points the import duties on a number of consumer goods. January 31. The buying and selling rates of the mon- etary authorities were changed from Cr$6.180 and Cr$6.220 per US$1, respectively, to Cr$6.30 and Cr$6.34 per US$1. January 31. IBC Resolution No. 816 established the minimum registration prices (US$0.6850) and a fixed contribution quota (US$31.60) for exports of green and soluble coffee for shipment during July. January 31. Agreement in principle was reached that settlements with Greece would be placed on a convert- ible currency basis. (At the end of 1974, settlements were still being channeled through the clearing ac- counts.) February 5. CACEX Communication No. 467 ex- tended the prohibition on exports of groundnuts until November 1974 and specified that groundnut oil ex- ports would be permitted, provided that an equal vol- ume of soybean oil or sunflower-seed oil was imported, and provided that for every kilogram exported 1.5 kilo- grams would be sold on the domestic market. February 8. The deposit requirement of 40 per cent of the cruzeiro equivalent of the foreign currency pro- ceeds of borrowing abroad was suspended. Existing deposits were to be released gradually, in accordance with the repayment schedule approved upon registra- tion of each loan. The prescribed minimum maturities for borrowing abroad were maintained unchanged (Central Bank Resolution No. 279). February 14. The exemption from customs duty for imports of corn expired which had been granted by CPA Resolution No. 1785 of August 14, 1973. February 19. The price paid by CACEX for soybeans under the system of required domestic sales in propor- tion to exports was increased from Cr$45 to Cr$51 a bag of 60 kilograms, and for soy bran and cake from Cr$800 to Cr$900 a ton. For every 3 tons of soybeans exported, 1 ton had to be sold to CACEX, and for every 5 tons of soy bran exported, 1 ton had to be sold to CACEX (Central Bank Resolution No. 280). February 19. The Interministerial Price Council sus- pended exports of pig iron. The suspension was lifted on October 15 by CACEX Communication No. 491. February 20. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed to Cr$6.415 and Cr$6.455 per US$1, respectively. February 22. Exports of soy meal and soybeans were made subject to the sale to CACEX of 1 ton for every 5 tons exported and 1 ton for every 3 tons exported, respectively. Exports of soybean oil were not allowed (CACEX Communication No. 470). BRAZIL February 27. The exemption from customs duty for imports of aluminum expired which had been granted by CPA Resolution No. 1789 of August 27, 1973. March 4. CPA Resolution No. 2034 suspended for 1974 the import duty on a quota of 2.7 million tons of wheat. March 4. An export quota of 80,000 tons of raw cotton was established for the 1974 crop year. Previ- ously, exports were suspended (CACEX Resolution No. 471). March 12. CPA Resolution No. 2058 suspended for two years the import duties on instruments, equipment, and machinery for the mining and construction indus- tries. March 12. CPA Resolution No. 2060 suspended for 1974 the import duties on engines and parts for agricul- tural tractors. March 12. CPA Resolution No. 2061 suspended for 1974 the import duty on a quota of 30,000 tons of jute. March 12. CPA Resolution No. 2072 increased by 35 percentage points, for a period of two years, the import duties on certain medical and hospital equip- ment. March 13. The contribution quota on exports of fro- zen, chilled, or fresh boneless beef was reduced from US$500 a ton, f.o.b., to US$250 a ton, f.o.b. (GECAM Communication No. 233). March 19. The President announced that an in- creased inflow of foreign capital was necessary. Exist- ing legislation governing foreign investment in Brazil would remain in force, and investment of petrodollars was welcomed. New foreign borrowings would be ap- proved as long as the debt-servicing ratio remained acceptable. March 29. The contribution quota on exports of chilled, fresh, and frozen beef ( US$250 a ton f.o.b.) was abolished; that on exports of processed beef (US$250 a ton f.o.b.) also was abolished. Exports of beef remained subject to quota. For exports of processed beef, a quota of 25,000 tons a year was set for 1974 and 1975 (Central Bank Resolution No. 283). March 31. The exemption from customs duty on imports of oils derived from cotton, corn, soybeans, groundnuts, and sunflower seeds expired which had been granted by CPA Resolutions Nos. 1900 and 1901 of November 7, 1973. April 10. The domestic sales requirement for export- ers of soybeans and soy bran and cake was abolished. It was replaced by a prior registration requirement. Exports of soybean oil remained prohibited (CACEX Communication No. 475). April 15. IBC Resolution No. 869 established a con- tribution quota of US$27.80 a bag for exports of raw, roasted, and ground coffee for shipment between April and July. April 16. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed to Cr$6.515 and Cr$6.555 per US$1, respectively. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL April 18. The Minister of Finance announced that no new controls would be imposed on private foreign bor- rowings in 1974. May 7. CACEX authorized the resumption of corn exports. May 8. CPA Resolution No. 2121 granted exemp- tions from import duty for one year on certain compo- nents and parts for tractors, road-building machinery, and automobiles. (The exemptions were discontinued for automobiles by CPA Resolution No. 2203 of June 25. May 15. Pricing policies for coffee exports were mod- ified. Foreign importers were offered a discount in the form of a certificate to be applied to their future pur- chases of coffee. The discount was US$0.08 a pound for sales registered on May 15, 16, and 17, after which it fluctuated. This bonus scheme expired on June 30. May 15. Law No. 6045 modified the powers and structure of the National Monetary Council. May 21. Central Bank Circular Letter No. 113 an- nounced that foreign funds brought in under Resolu- tion No. 63 could no longer be passed on to unincorporated firms; where they had already been passed on to such firms, the borrowings could not be rolled over on maturity. June 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Uruguay came into force. June 3. The export quota for raw cotton was abol- ished and exports ceased to be restricted but remained subject to license (CACEX Communication No. 476). June 5. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed to Cr$6.640 and Cr$6.680 per US$1, respectively. June 7. CPA Resolution No. 2201 suspended, for one year, the import du ty on newsprint. June 21. Decree-Law No. 74199 transferred the re- sponsibility for the Commission on Fiscal Incentives for Special Export Programs (BEFIEX) and its export incentive programs from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. June 24. Foreign financing was prohibited for im- ports subject to import duty at 55 per cent or more; henceforth these were permitted only against cash pay- ment on sight, i.e., foreign exchange contracts had to be liquidated on the date of customs clearance; previ- ously, credit terms of up to 180 days were permissible for all imports. For goods subject to duty at less than 55 per cent, payment within 180 days was generally prescribed, but for raw materials and capital goods CACEX could allow credit terms of 181-360 days (Cen- tral Bank Resolution No. 289 and GECAM Communi- cation No. 238). June 24. Central Bank Resolution No. 290 prohib- ited domestic lending by finance companies for the purpose of financing tourist travel abroad. June 25. The exemption from customs du ty for im- ports of unprocessed hides and skins expired which had been granted by CPA Resolution No. 1713 of June 14, 1973. 84 June 25. CPA Resolution No. 2203 revoked most of the resolutions providing for temporary suspensions and reductions of import duties. The only goods re- maining exempt were fertilizers, newsprint, raw materi- als for the chemical industry, certain sizes of tires, nonferrous metals, and equipment goods. (Subse- quently, import duties were again suspended for a num- ber of essential commodities, including meat and milk.) June 25. Additional controls were introduced on the import of civil aircraft and their parts, in the form of prior authorization of a committee in the Air Ministry (Decree No. 74.219). June 25. Decree-Law No. 1334 increased the import duties on some 400 items classified as "superfluous" imports, mainly consumer goods, by 100 percentage points until the end of 1975, except when the goods were of LAFTA origin or where duties had been bound under the GATT. As a result, the maximum rate of customs du ty in force was increased to 205 per cent. June 25. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed to Cr$6.775 and Cr$6.815 per US$1, respectively. June 26. Minimum registration prices of US$ 1.45 a pound for spray-dried soluble coffee and US$2.15 a pound for freeze-dried soluble coffee were established for August-December (IBC Resolution No. 879). June 26. Measures were announced to reduce im- ports of capital goods not financed externally. June 28. The validity of import certificates for goods with import duties of 55 per cent or more and for certain foodstuffs and raw materials was reduced from 180 days to 90 days, and only one extension of 90 days would be permitted for such items. The validity was reduced to 60 days for goods subject to price controls. Importers could apply to CACEX for an exemption from these limitations (CACEX Communication No. 478, revoked on January 9, 1975 by Communication No. 500). June 28. IBC Resolution No. 880 reduced the con- tribution quota on green coffee from US$35.57 to US$24.00 a bag, with effect from July 1, and stated that the quota would be adjusted automatically in line with the fluctuations of the U.S. dollar against third currencies. June. The Ministry of Industry and Commerce an- nounced that the sale of majority participations in Bra- zilian-owned companies to foreign groups required prior consultation with the Ministry. July 1. Minimum registration prices of US$0.68, US$0.67, US$0.64, and US$0.625 a bag were set for shipments of green coffee during July-September, de- pending on grade and port of shipment. The contribu- tion quota for such shipments was lowered to US$24 a bag. July 5. The IBC introduced a discount of US$6 a bag on the minimum registration prices for exports of green coffee. July 8. Decree-Law No. 1335 authorized the Minis- ter of Finance, subject to a number of conditions, to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution extend the tax incentives for exports to certain sales in the domestic market by producers of locally manufac- tured machinery and equipment. July 9. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed to Cr$6.845 and Cr$6.885 per US$1, respectively. July 10. CPA Resolution No. 2207 suspended until June 30, 1975 the import duty on beef and bullocks. July 11. CACEX Communication No. 480 established an export quota of 110,000 tons for citrus juice for the 1974/75 crop year. July 18. The Bank of Brazil was authorized to bor- row abroad for the purpose of granting financing to domestic government agencies and public companies. July 23. Decree-Law No. 1338 canceled the conces- sion whereby a reduction or refund of the 25 per cent withholding tax on remittances abroad of royalties, technical assistance fees, or interest on loans was made available to producers who, directly or indirectly, ex- ported manufactured goods. July 31. IBC Resolution No. 882 established mini- mum registration prices for exports of green coffee for the period August 1-November 30, fixed the contribu- tion quota on such exports at US$24.64 a bag, and suspended individual export quotas for green coffee from August 1. (At the same time, minimum capital requirements for coffee exporters were announced.) August 1. The IBC applied a discount of US$0.04 a pound to coffee sales registered from August 1 and shipped by November 30. The permitted maturity for forward sales of green coffee was extended from three months to six months. August 1. The three-year nonpreferential trade agree- ment with the EEC came into effect which had been signed on December 19, 1973 (Decree No. 74.421 of August 15, 1974). August 2. CPA Resolution No. 2209 reduced import duties on machinery for agricultural or industrial use by up to 50 per cent. August 15. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed to Cr$6.980 and Cr$7.020 per US$1, respectively. August 15. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with the Dominican Republic. It came into force on September 1. August 28. Central Bank Circular No. 230 permitted banks to deposit with the Central Bank the amount of foreign loans under Resolutions Nos. 63 and 64 if the latter had not been taken up by a local borrower within a specified period. The Central Bank would pay interest on such funds based on the London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR), remit loan interest abroad, and in cer- tain circumstances absorb the withholding tax. August 28. Central Bank Circular No. 231 permitted the National Bank for Economic Development and commercial and investment banks to borrow abroad, subject to the conditions of Central Bank Resolution No. 229. They were thus enabled to borrow abroad on terms similar to those available to nonbank firms bor- BRAZIL rowing directly under Decree-Law No. 4131, but with a minimum maturity of three years. August 28. CPA Resolution No. 2215 suspended, for one year, the import duties on certain iron and steel products imported by specified firms for the purpose of complementing domestic production. August 29. CACEX Communication No. 486 sus- pended exports of quartz, including quartz chips. The suspension was lifted on September 26, when export quotas were applied. August 30. Decree No. 74.479 established an execu- tive secretariat for the Committee for the Coordination of Foreign Purchasing Policy (CCPCE) to supervise the purchase of priority imports by federal agencies, auton- omous state institutions, and mixed-capital companies. September 13. With effect from September 18, the minimum maturity prescribed for foreign loans under Decree-Law No. 4131 and Resolution No. 63 was re- duced from ten to five years. September 13. The minimum maturity for foreign loans that under Decree-Law No. 1215 were exempt from withholding tax (or subject to refund or reduction of this tax) was reduced from 12 to 8 years (Central Bank Resolution No. 300). September 18. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed to Cr$7.090 and Cr$7.130 per US$1, respectively. September 30. IBC Resolution No. 891 established new minimum registration prices with effect from Oc- tober 1 for green, roasted, and ground coffee for ship- ment up to January 31, 1975. It also increased the contribution quota from US$26.77 to US$27.56 a bag with effect from October 1. September. The Minister of Finance announced plans to facilitate inward portfolio investment. (On Febru- ary 10, 1975 the Ministry announced that a bill liberal- izing the access of foreign investors to the Brazilian stock exchanges would be submitted to Congress.) October 2. IBC Resolution No. 895 established the guaranteed cruzeiro prices for washed and unwashed coffee for shipment from February 1, 1975. October 10. Central Bank Resolution No. 302 intro- duced a contribution quota of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value on the export proceeds of quartz chips. October 15. New arrangements for selective dis- counts on exports of green coffee came into operation. October 15. CACEX Communication No. 491 re- voked the export prohibition for scrap iron that had been introduced by Communication No. 416. October 24. Central Bank Resolution No. 305 re- duced temporarily the withholding tax on the interest, commission, and expenses on foreign currency loans registered with the Central Bank from 25 per cent to 5 per cent. The National Monetary Council ruled that the reduction did not apply to short-term loans and those for financing imports. FIRCE Communication No. 24 established that the reduction applied only to interest, etc., paid or credited to parties resident or domiciled 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL abroad from October 25, on foreign loans contracted under Resolutions Nos. 63, 125, and 229. October 24. Decree-Law No. 1351 modified certain income tax regulations. Income tax on loan interest paid to foreign financial institutions was for tax pur- poses considered as an operational expense of the bor- rower. The National Monetary Council was empowered to reduce temporarily the withholding tax on interest, commission, expenses, and discounts paid to parties resident or domiciled abroad, in the light of the exigencies of financial and exchange policy. October 28. The buying and selling rates of the mone- tary authorities were changed to Cr$7.180 and Cr$7.220 per US$1, respectively. November 6. Decree-Law No. 1356 granted exemp- tion from import duties until the end of 1979 for raw materials, machinery, and equipment imported for the use of steel mills. November 11. The President approved the national fertilizer program, which aimed at self-sufficiency in fertilizer production. Annual foreign exchange savings of some US$950 million (at 1974 prices) were expected on completion. November 19. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed to Cr$7.285 and Cr$7.325 per US$1, respectively. November 19. Decree No. 74.908 prohibited govern- ment departments and agencies and firms with major- ity government participation from importing consumer goods or buy ing imported consumer goods in the local market, unless by special and specific prior permission from the President's Office. Public sector imports of capital goods became subject to a special screening procedure designed to maximize the use of goods of domestic origin. On the same date, the Economic Development Council issued instructions supplementing the provi- sions of Decree No. 74.908. These instructions pro- vided the following: (1) In the government sector, priority in purchasing would be given to nationally produced goods and ser- vices. (2) For the fiscal year 1975, imports to be effected by the various federal ministries, either direct or through their subordinate agencies and enterprises, had to be included in programs to be approved by the President. (3) The governmental bodies referred to in (2) would be required to prepare investment programs for a pe- riod of at least four years, which had to be submitted to the President through the Planning Secretariat for approval. These bodies would also be required to fol- low certain procedures at the direction of the responsi- ble minister. These included measures to facilitate import substitution and coordinate investment pro- grams, and specific requirements to be met before the making of purchases abroad, as follows: (a) the specifi- cation of all equipment and materials needed for any project, to enhance the possibility of utilizing domesti- cally produced goods; (b) direct consultation with com- 86 panies and professional bodies, and submission of the program to CACEX, in accordance with the agreement on participation of national industries; (c) prior consul- tation with the Central Bank, the National Develop- ment Bank, and /or the Bank of Brazil, for information on internal and external financing terms; and (d) con- sultation with CACEX, or if necessary, the CCPCE, con- cerning any preference as to supplier country, in the light of the balance of trade with the country con- cerned, and concerning the prospective benefit of pur- chases in specific suppliers' markets in support of Brazilian exports. CACEX would approve import applications from government organs and agencies only if these instruc- tions were being strictly observed, and without preju- dice to the conditions laid down for purchases of petroleum, wheat, and other state monopoly products. Furthermore, state governments were encouraged to adopt a procedure similar to that outlined in the man- datory regulations laid down for imports by the Fed- eral Government and its agencies. November 26. Decree No. 74.965 regulated the acqui- sition of land by foreign physical and juridical persons. November 26. Decree No. 74.966 rationalized the regulations issued under Decree-Law No. 37 of 1966, which governs the duty exemptions or reductions granted for imports, principally of capital goods. November 28. The Ministry of Industry and Com- merce announced that quota and tariff measures would be taken to reduce imports in 1975 by 30-40 per cent below the current level. November 29. The Bank of Brazil suspended its for- ward cover facilities in dealings with banks. December 2. Decree-Law No. 1364 of November 28 extended f rom the end of 1975 to the end of 1976 the increases in import du ty introduced by Decree-Law No. 1334 of June 25, added a large number of con- sumer goods to those on which duties were increased by 100 percentage points, and increased considerably the duties on a number of other items, including some items on which tar iffs had been raised in June and some raw materials and semimanufactured goods. Goods on which import duties had been bound under the GATT were exempt. December 20. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed to Cr$7.395 and Cr$7.435 per US$1, respectively. December 31. The exemption from customs duty for imports of fresh, chilled, and frozen beef expired which had been granted by CPA Resolution No. 1887 of Oc- tober 19, 1973. December 31. Central Bank Resolution No. 315 in- creased the contribution quota on export proceeds from quartz from 10 per cent to 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value, with effect from January 1, 1975. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NOTES 1 With effect from January 9, 1975, this contribution quota was reduced to 5 per cent in respect of sugared cocoa powder containing up to 50 per cent of cocoa cake as raw material. 2 With effect from January 1, 1975, this contribution quota was increased to 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value. 3 Under instructions issued by the Economic Development Council, federal ministries and subordinate agencies and en- terprises are required to submit, for approval by the Presi- dent, an annual investment program incorporating their anticipated import requirements. 4 With effect from February 28, 1975, the cash payment requirement was applied to goods subject to import duty at a rate of 37 per cent or more (with certain exceptions), and to a number of other goods irrespective of the rate of import duty. 5 On February 6, 1975 it was announced that the contribu- tion quota on decaffeinated green coffee had been reduced to US$0.15 a pound ( US$19.80 a bag) for exports shipped on or after January 10, 1975. The reduction would remain in effect for 180 days. BRAZIL 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of f ine gold per Burmese Kyat. The central rate is K 4.8138 per US$1, and Burma avails itself of wider margins. On Decem- ber 31, 1974 the buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar of the Union of Burma Bank, the sole authorized dealer in foreign exchange, were K 4.7631 and K 4.8583, respectively, per U.S. dollar. The Bank's buying and selling rates for Sterling on the same date were K 11.2931 and K 11.5189, respectively, per £ stg. I .1 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board in accordance w i th instructions f rom the Ministry of P lann ing and Finance, th rough the Ex- change Control Department of the Un ion of Burma Bank. A Foreign Exchange Control Committee headed by the Minister of P lann ing and Finance is in charge of the allocation of foreign exchange to the public sector. Exports are handled by the Myanma Expo r t - Impo rt Corporation (MEIC or Trade Corporation No. 22). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the pr iva te sector, whose requirements are determined by the Cen- tral Trade Council. Government agencies and depart- ments make imports of goods for their own use, including imports under loan and aid agreements, in the name of the MEIC. Most paymen ts for impo r ts are made in accordance w i th an annual foreign exchange budget drawn up by the M in is try of P lann ing and Fi- nance. Prescription of Currency Certain settlements w i th Bangladesh are channeled th rough a nonresident bank account at the Un ion of Burma Bank, and certain settlements w i th Ind ia are channeled th rough special rupee accounts in that coun- t ry. Payments to other countries may be made in any foreign currency or by cred i t ing kya ts to an External Account in Burma. Receipts must be collected in con- vertible currencies or to the debit of an Ex ternal Ac- count in Burma. Imports and Import Payments An import program is drawn up a n n u a l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget. All impor ts are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. All impor ts f rom Rhode- sia and South Africa are prohibited. Also proh ib i ted are imports of a few commodities f rom any source —principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, p lay ing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion. Impo r ts of consumer goods are severely restricted. Most impor ts are purchased on an f .o .b. basis, and sh ipmen ts are made on vessels owned or chartered by the Burma Five Star Line whenever possible. All payments for imports are made through the Union of Burma Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected w i th foreign trade are allowed automatically, and payments for most other purposes are considered on a case-by-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educational or technical institutions abroad and payments for sub- scriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed freely. Family remittances are permitted only by foreign municipal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government, the limit being one half of the net salary if the w i fe is l iv ing abroad, and one th ird of the net salary if the wife is l iv ing in Burma. Remittances of income resulting from inves tment other than that guaranteed under the In- vestment Act have been suspended. The remittance of pension payments to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before departure f rom Burma is not permitted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries through post of- fices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been suspended. However, residents who have been granted an off ic ial permit to go abroad for any other purpose may take out freely the equiva- lent of K 50 in the currency of the coun try of destina- tion (except Ind ia) or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes or U.S. dollar notes. At present, Bur- mese na t iona ls are not allowed to travel abroad except on official missions or for employment abroad. On leaving, nonresident travelers who have stayed in the coun t ry for less than six mon ths may take out any fore ign currency they still hold and may also reconvert the amount of foreign currency which they had con- verted in to kyats. The export of Burmese currency is proh ib i ted. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the MEIC. There is a list of prohibited exports which comprises iron and steel, brass, copper, and a lum inum and scraps thereof, for- eign manufac tures, and commodities of domestic origin the conservation of which is desired for domestic re- quirements. All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authori- ties; the exchange must be surrendered to the Union of Burma Bank w i th in six mon ths from the date of ship- men t. When exports are made on an f.o.b. basis, buyers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are free to choose the carrier, but exports on a c.i.f. basis are usually shipped by the Burma Five Star Line or on vessels nominated by it. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. Travelers may bring in, subject to declaration, any amount in foreign currency; foreign nationals who intend to stay for more than six months must surrender all foreign exchange in their possession unless special permission is given to the contrary. The import of Bur- mese currency is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Investment Act, 1959 and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Investment propos- als are to be considered by an Investment Committee to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employ- ment, conserve foreign exchange, and generally con- form to the economic plans of the Government. No private investments have been made under the Act; since February 15, 1963, when the Government an- nounced a new policy of nationalization, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma. The investment law provides for the transfer abroad of profits after taxes and for the withdrawal of im- ported capital at any time after five years from the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. In principle, proceeds from the liqui- dation or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. All such transfers may, subject to prior ap- proval, be made at the official rate of exchange prevail- ing at the time of the transaction. However, transfers of capital proceeds from the voluntary liquidation of foreign companies were suspended in July 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior ap- proval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of family remittances have been suspended, with minor exceptions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector; those employed in the public sector may remit their personal savings when BURMA leaving the service. When the transfer abroad of pay- ments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for im- ports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities of Burma. Jewelry for personal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, how- ever, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1974 January 18. The Union of Burma Bank increased the "commission" applied to the buying rate for sterling from 15 per cent to 20 per cent. This "commission" was discontinued on July 1. July 26. Union Bank Notification No. 97 canceled the previous notifications concerning the legal parities of foreign currencies, with effect from August 1. The Union Bank would from time to time certify the appro- priate exchange rates, based on the central rate and the prevailing rates in international markets for the curren- cies concerned. August 17. A special payments arrangement was con- cluded with India. Special rupee accounts would be opened by the Punjab National Bank in the name of the Union of Burma Bank, to record payments in respect of a specified amount of imports and exports. The pay- ments arrangement came into operation on Septem- ber 21. NOTE 1 With effect from January 25, 1975, Burma changed its central rate to K 7.74289 = SDR 1 and continued to avail itself of wider margins. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00935443 gram of f ine gold per Burundi Franc, corresponding to FBu 78.7501 = US$1, and Burundi avails itself of wider margins. The exchange rates quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi (the central bank) for the U.S. dollar, the inter- ven t ion currency, are fixed at FBu 78.35 buy ing, and FBu 79.15 selling, per US$1. The Bank quotes buy ing and selling rates for the Belgian f r anc based on its fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the off ic ial ma rket rates for the U.S. dollar in Brussels; the Bank also quotes buy ing and selling rates for other specified currencies1 which are based either on its quoted rates for the Belgian f r a nc and the off ic ial market rates for the currencies con- cerned in Brussels, or, for the Kenya shilling, the Rwanda f ranc, the Tanzania sh i l l ing, the Uganda shil- l ing, and the za'ire, on the ir off ic ial parities. Au thor ized banks must carry out permitted ex- change transactions at the buy ing and selling rates es- tablished by the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi for currencies quoted by th at Bank; they may agree rates free ly w i th the ir customers for Uganda sh i l l ings. Administration of Control Control over fore ign exchange t ransac t ions and fo r- eign t rade is vested in the Bank of the Republic of Burundi; au tho r i ty to carry out some transactions is delegated to th ree au thor ized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th Zaire are effec ted t h r o u gh special accounts. W i th th is exception, ou tgo ing paymen ts may be made in any cu r rency, wh i le receipts mu st be ob- tained in one of the currencies quo ted by the Bank of the Repub l ic of Bu rund i. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Bu rundi Francs may be ma in ta ined, subject to the approval of the cen t ral bank, by (1) physical persons of fo re ign n a t i o n a l i ty who are tempo ra r i ly established in B u r u n di and are not consid- ered as residents, such as d ip loma ts, and (2) jur id ical persons of fore ign n a t i o n a l i ty w i th special status, such as fore ign embassies and in t e rn a t ion al organ iza t ions. These accounts may be credited f ree ly w i th the pro- ceeds of fore ign currencies quo ted by the cen tral bank and they may be debited free ly for w i thd r aw a ls of Bu- rundi francs for any normal cu r rent paymen ts in Bu- rundi and for conversion in to fore ign exchange (except banknotes). All other debits and credits requ i re the prior approval of the central bank. These accounts can- not bear interest and must not be ove rd rawn. 90 Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Ac- counts in Foreign Currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to (1) physical persons of foreign na t iona l i ty who are resident abroad and (2) juridical persons hav ing branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign currency quoted by the Bank of the Republic that is received f rom abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion in to Burundi francs required to pay any expenses in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear in- terest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. Imports and Import Payments All impo r ts originating in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited.2 All im- por ts except trade samples and merchandise not in- tended for sale and valued at FBu 20,000 or less require licenses; these are issued f ree ly, except for certain used c lo th ing. App l ica t ions for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi on a form en t i t led Impo rt License and Payment Authorization. The approval of such an application constitutes an au- thor iza t ion also to obtain foreign exchange. W i th cer- ta in exceptions, app l ica t ions for amoun ts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks. Impo rt licenses must be presented to the customs offi- cials when the goods are cleared th rough customs. The license is va l id for a period of 12 mon ths starting at the end of the m o n th fo l low ing that of validation (six mon ths for goods shipped f rom neighboring countries); in special cases, extensions may be granted by the cen- t ral b ank. The numb er and date of exp ira t ion of the license mu st be entered on the customs clearance form, the Consump t ion Dec lara t ion, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are requ ired f rom p r iva te sector impor ters for certain lux- ury goods. The deposit on such commodities is 100 per cent; it is not requ ired, however, when the goods are impo r ted in small amoun t s, i.e., when the amount of the license is less t h an FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the t ime the impo rt license is validated; it is released when the impo rt payment is made. In principle, fo re ign exchange is made available at the t ime of sh ipment of the goods. For certain prime necessities, however, documen ta ry credits may be opened for wh ich exchange is supplied immediately. For goods under global licenses, foreign exchange is not made ava i lab le u n t il a f t er customs clearance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem, in addition to any applicable customs duties and fiscal duties. tured goods may receive a refund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw materi- als on which import du ty has been paid. BURUNDI Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Ship- ping insurance on coffee exports normally must be taken out in Burundi francs with brokers or insurers established in Burundi. Upon proof of payment of taxes, transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted at rates ranging from 18 per cent up to 60 per cent of the net annual income, depending on the amount of such income; this regime applies to earnings under a labor contract, to income earned in a profes- sion, and to profits earned by any enterprise operated by an individual or a partnership. Private joint-stock companies may freely transfer 50 per cent of net de- clared profits after taxes to their foreign nonresident stockholders or to stockholders who are resident for- eign nationals; however, enterprises that have obtained approved status under the Investment Code may ob- tain a guarantee of full transferability of net declared profits. Persons leaving Burundi permanently are au- thorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unremitted savings or of the pro- ceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental properties to nonresident owners of foreign nationality is permitted up to 50 per cent of net rental income (after payment of taxes and deduction of 20 per cent for maintenance expenses); resident owners of foreign na t iona l i ty may remit the same proportion of such income. Residents of Burundi nationality may purchase any amount of exchange needed for foreign travel. All travelers may take out up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets, up to reasonable amounts, against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited (but see note 2). All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Ex- change. The Declaration must be presented for certifi- cation by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the exception of those for cotton, which may be certified by authorized banks; for coffee exports, the central bank's visa is dependent on the prior advice of the Coffee Committee. Declarations are valid for six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days a f ter the goods have left the coun try when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All ex- change proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in 8 days from their collection. Virtually all exports, including coffee, are subject to export taxes and a statistical tax. Exports of manufac- Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 25, 1967 provides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fu l f i l ls specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority status to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import duties and from taxes on income from the in- vestment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for starting a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the manufac tur ing opera- tion or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may be likewise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority sta- tus may obtain protection against foreign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the central bank for the free transfer of profits and dividends as well as the repatriation of the invested capital. In addition to these privileges, companies undertaking investments that are consid- ered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate conven- tion, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the Secretariat of the Presidency is charged with examining requests for pri- ority status and gran t ing the necessary authorization. Capital transfers by residents require individual au- thorization, as does foreign capital on which a repatria- tion guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in any of the currencies quoted by the central bank by resident enterprises for working capital purposes and is valid for one year from the date on which the exchange is surrendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guaran- tee provides for the transfer of the original amount surrendered at the official rate ruling on the day of transfer. Gold Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through the central bank, since all private dealing in gold is prohibited. The central bank purchases unrefined gold from domestic producers at FBu 300 a gram. After refining abroad, this gold is included in the official monetary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI made on ly by the cen tral bank, w i th the exception t h at p r iva te f i rms may be licensed to impo rt gold for den tal use. Changes during 1974 February 1. The Uganda sh i l l ing was o f f i c i a l ly quoted. March 7. Commun ica t ion No. 67 Rt. A, wh ich re- voked Commun ica t ion No. 37 Rt. A of May 7, 1965, mod i f ied and consolidated the regu la t ions rega rd ing payment for t ravel tickets issued in Bu rund i. May-June. Special buy ing ra tes ceased to be applied to proceeds f rom coffee expor ts surrendered more than 3 mon ths a f t er sh ipmen t. July 11. Communication No. 58 Bis Rt. C / IMP added a provision to Commun ica t ion No. 58 Rt. C / IMP of October 26, 1970 concerning t r an spo r t a t ion costs in respect of impor ts. July 11. The va l id i ty of impo rt licenses was extended f rom 7 to 12 mon th s, except in the case of impo r ts f rom ne ighbor ing countries, for which the v a l i d i ty was re- duced to 6 mon ths. December 16. The advance impo rt deposit require- ment was extended to add i t ional goods. December 26. Section II of Reglement A was com- pleted by a pa rag raph H wh ich b rought under the con- t rol of the Bank of the Republic the disposal by residents of goods, securities, or claims they held out- side Bu rund i, and the acquisition by residents of goods and securities s i tua ted outside Burundi or of claims on persons resident outside Bu rund i. December 26. Commun ica t ion No. 69 Rt. A pro- vided de f in i t ions of the terms goods, securities, and claims as used in pa rag raph H of Reglement A. Any of these held abroad had to be declared to the Bank of the Repub l ic w i t h in one mon th, af ter which date a ll acts of acqu is i t ion or disposal required the prior wr i t ten au tho r iza t ion of the Bank. The Communication also specified the exemp t ions f rom the new obligations. NOTES 1 Au s t r i an sch i l l ing s, Canad ian do l lars, Danish k rone r, deu t sche m a r k, French f r a n c s, I ta l ian l ire, Kenya sh i l l ings, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Rw anda f r an c s, Swedish k ron e r, Swiss f ranc s, Tanzania shil- l ings, Ug anda sh i l l ing s, and zai'res. 2 The ban on t r ade w i th Po r tugal and South Afr ica was revoked on F eb ru a ry 13, 1975 by O rd inance No. 510 /27. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, be- tween the Banque des Etats de PAfrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the cur- rency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Came- roon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All countries, except Cameroon itself, are considered foreign countries. All financial transfers to countries of the French Franc Area must be declared to the authorities for statistical purposes. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Economic Controls in the Ministry of Finance, which also surpervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon, and inward and outward direct investment. All exchange transactions relating to countries outside the French Franc Area must be ef- fected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Indus- trial and Commercial Development. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Yaounde by the foreign correspondents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources of certain "controlled" goods requires a special authorization (au- torisation speciale d'importation); when these goods are imported from countries other than France or the Op- erations Account countries of the French Franc Area, they require in addition an import license. Other im- ports from France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area do not require a license. All other imports are subject to licensing, but licenses are issued freely. All import transactions relating to countries outside the French Franc Area must be domiciled with an au- thorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Minis- try of Finance. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also per- mitted freely when the basic transaction has been ap- proved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange alloca- tion of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a per- son a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel, the corresponding allocation is the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 450,000 a trip. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited in principle to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation pur- poses. Remittances for current repair and management 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within one month of the pay period concerned. Except in the case of foreigners work ing in Cameroon temporarily, payments to foreign countries of insurance premiums are not permitted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Resident and nonresident travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out up to CFAF 20,000 in BEAC banknotes. Travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try, or up to CFAF 50,000 if no declaration was made. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions relating to countries outside the French Franc Area must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 50,000 or more. Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Proceeds from exports to countries outside the French Franc Area must be collected within 30 days of the date of arrival at their destination and proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be surrendered w i th in a mon th after col- lection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area may be re- tained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a mon th of the due date and surrendered within a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are 94 permitted freely. Emigrants to countries outside the French Franc Area may transfer abroad their full sav- ings, provided that they have met their tax obligations. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Came- roon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the ex- ception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Ac- count. The provisions of Decree No. 67 /DF /365, which introduced these special controls, have been sus- pended insofar as they are contrary to Decree No. 74/249, on which the present exchange controls are based. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and ti- tles embodying claims on nonresidents must be depos- ited with an authorized intermediary, whether they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct investments abroad2 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments requires only a report ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cam- eroon3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Fi- nance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The fu ll or partial liquidation of direct investments in Cam- eroon requires only reporting ex post to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Came- roon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Cameroonian invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Cameroon requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, how- ever, and subject only to an ex post report, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution guarantee from the Cameroonian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has previously been au- thorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, and must subsequently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report ex post (1) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (2) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. Lending abroad by physical and juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Cameroon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical per- sons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and must sub- sequently be reported to him. The following are, how- ever, exempt from prior authorization and are subject only to a report ex post (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly con- nected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Came- roon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (3) loans not exceeding CFAF 500,000, provided the maturity does not exceed two years and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and re- vised in April 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both for- eign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the benefits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the economic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Cate- gory A permits mainly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufacturing and pro- cessing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from various other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the company are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are deter- mined. Normally, an "establishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, CAMEROON and financial guarantees granted to the company, in- cluding the assurance of stable conditions for financial transfers and marketing of goods. Category D grants to firms making investments of particular significance to the national economy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. A decree of August 30, 1973 provides that at least one third of the share capital of each banking or insurance institution should be held by the public sec- tor and that its headquarters should be in Cameroon. This decree also requires banks with foreign majority participation to submit to the monetary authorities in- formation on all their current transactions abroad and to obtain prior approval for any changes in the struc- ture of their equity holdings. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Such approval is normally given only to indus- trial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Directorate of Mines, which autho- rizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic indus- trial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, and (2) imports and ex- ports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies within predetermined margins. A joint decision to this effect was taken on February 1 by the Ministers of Finance of the member countries of the BEAC. February 21. New cooperation agreements were signed with France. March 7. Circular No. 3 /M INF I /CE was issued re- garding borrowing abroad. March 9. Order No. 72 /M INF I /CE revoked Order No. 38 /MINFI of January 6, 1968. The new Order defined foreign countries as all countries except Came- roon and modified the regulations regarding borrowing abroad and lending abroad. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Cameroon also ceased to operate. The 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official exchange market and through Foreign Accounts in Francs. April 3. Decree No. 74 /249 modified Decree No. 6 7 /DF / 3 65 of August 21, 1967. August 22. Cameroon advised the GATT that it had ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the General Agree- ment with respect to Japan. NOTES 1 The CFA f ranc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the Peo- pled Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 Inc lud ing those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Cameroon. 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Cameroon that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of f ine gold per Canadian Dollar. Since May 31, 1970, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the Canadian dollar within prescribed margins, and therefore all transactions, for the time being, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The closing free market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 was Can$0.9906 per US$1. Canada has no exchange restric- tions on foreign payments other than certain restric- tions on payments to Rhodesia. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. In implementation of UN Security Council Reso- lution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968, payments and transfers to Rhodesia are restricted. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for certain drugs, for a few agricultural items, including live cattle, fresh beef, and certain cereals, for certain textile products, for nat- ural gas, and for material and equipment for the pro- duction or use of atomic energy. For some of the agricultural items, such as certain dairy products, li- censes are generally not being issued. Commercial im- ports of certain commodities from any source are generally prohibited; these include oleomargarine, used automobiles, secondhand aircraft, certain periodicals, and goods of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control, as is the export to the United States of crude petroleum, certain petro- leum products, and natural gas. For security reasons, the export of certain specified commodities to all desti- nations except the United States is under export con- trol. All exports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Dem- ocratic Republic and East Berlin, Hungary, North Ko- rea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, North Viet-Nam, and the U.S.S.R. are subject to control, al- though certain goods of Canadian origin may be ex- ported to these destinations, with the exception of Rhodesia, under the authority of a general export per- mit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohibited, except medical supplies, news material, educational equipment and materials for use in educational institu- tions, and books, magazines, and periodicals. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange payments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. However, travelers may not take out any Canadian silver coins minted in or prior to 1968. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. The Minister of Finance and the Bank of Canada have asked Canadian borrowers to carefully explore the potentialities of the Canadian market before offering securities for sale abroad. Inward direct investment is governed by the Foreign Investment Review Act. It stipulates that the acquisition of control over a Cana- dian business enterprise by persons other than Canadi- ans, or the establishment of a new business by such persons not previously established in Canada, or whose proposed new business is unrelated to their existing business in Canada, will be allowed if it is assessed that such investments are of significant benefit to Canada. By the end of 1974, only the first part of the Act, which deals with foreign take-overs, was in operation. A For- eign Investment Review Agency is charged with the review of proposed take-overs and the screening of the establishment of new businesses. There are no controls over outward direct investment, nor over inward or outward portfolio investment.1 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Under the Emergency Gold Mining Assistance Act of 1948, all mines receiv- ing subsidies are required to sell their newly mined gold to the Royal Canadian Mint at US$42.22 a fine ounce. After refining, this gold is disposed of in the free market to established wholesale dealers by the Bank of Can- ada, acting as agent for the Government. Unsubsidized mines may sell their output on the free market. Exports of gold are subject to the following conditions: (1) ex- ports to Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public and East Berlin, Hungary, North Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, North Viet-Nam, and the U.S.S.R. are included among those exports subject to control and require a license from the De- partment of Industry, Trade and Commerce; (2) gold of U.S. origin may only be re-exported from Canada when covered by a permit issued by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce under the authority of 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA the Export and Import Permits Act; and (3) owing to the general embargo on trade with Rhodesia, move- ments of gold to or from Rhodesia are prohibited. Commercial imports of articles containing minor quan- tities of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Changes during 1974 January 1. The export charge on crude oil was raised from Can$1.90 a barrel to Can$2.20. It was increased to Can$6.40 on February 1, reduced to Can$4.00 on April 1, and raised again to Can$5.20 on June 1. January 13. The temporary surcharge on imports of fresh beef and live cattle was removed in three stages, ending on February 10. January 17. The Minister of Finance announced that those import duties that had been reduced as an an t i- inf la t ionary measure in February 1973, would be re- stored to their pre-existing levels; for some items th is occurred on February 20, and for the rema in ing items on June 30. January 30. Following the U.S. announcement on January 29, 1974 of the reduction to zero of the In te r- est Equalization Tax and the termination of all other balance of payments programs, Canada revoked the guidelines issued in 1966 and 1968 which had been designed to prevent Canada from being used as a "pass through" channel for ou tf lows of U.S. capital to over- seas countries. The Minister of Finance noted that his request to Canadian borrowers to explore f u l ly the Ca- nadian capital market before f loa t ing issues abroad was not w i thd rawn. The guidelines w i thd rawn were: (1) The request of March 16, 1966 of the Minister of Finance to all Canadian investors not to acqu ire securi- ties, denominated in Canadian or U.S. dollars, issued by U.S. corpora t ions or the ir non-Canadian subsidiar- ies and subject to the U.S. Interest Equalization Tax if purchased by U.S. residents. This request was accom- panied by an announcement that the Bank of Canada and the Department of Finance would con t inue to dis- courage the issue of securities in Canada by fore ign borrowers. (2) The request addressed by the Minister of Finance to chartered banks on May 3, 1968 to observe three guidelines designed p r ima r i ly to avoid an increase in their net foreign currency asset position w i th residents of countries other than Canada and the United States f rom the level at the end of February 1968. (3) The request of the Minister of Finance of Ju ly 24, 1968, that a guideline similar in effect to that applied to banks be accepted by all other f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s. (4) The guidelines set out on September 19, 1968 by the Minister of Trade and Commerce designed to en- sure that the inves tmen ts of Canadian incorporated non f inanc ial corporations outside of Canada and the United States would be compatible w i th Canada's un- restricted access to the U.S. capital ma rke t. These guidelines consisted of a request by the M in is ter that 98 companies not make investments in Western Europe invo lv ing transfers of capital funds f rom Canada or the United States unless the transfer resulted in large and early benefit to Canada. Companies were also asked to exercise restraint on such transfers to other developed countries. April 8. Export restrictions on scrap of iron and steel were tightened. (They were lifted on January 16, 1975, but export permits continued to be required.) April 9. Canada required certification that imports of beef were from cattle to which the grow th hormone diethylstilbestrol had not been administered. Similar certification was required for imports of cattle. April 9. The f i rst part (dealing w i th take-overs) of the Foreign Inves tment Review Act, which had received Royal Assent on December 12, 1973, came into force. The f i rst part of the Act provided for the review by the Government of acquisition of con trol over a Canadian business enterprise by noneligible persons. The Foreign Inves tment Review Agency was forma l ly established on April 9 to review applications by noneligible per- sons. (Early in 1975, no date had yet been set for the proclamation of the second part of the Act dealing with the establishment of new businesses by persons other than Canadians not already established in Canada or whose new business is unrelated to their existing busi- ness in Canada.) May 7. An amendment to the Export and Import Permits Act empowered the Government to require additional processing of raw materials before their ex- port. May 8. Import permits were required for tu rkeys and eggs, to support the operation of national marke t ing agencies for these products. The import controls on eggs, which were based on the average imports over the previous f ive years, were removed on September 16. May 30. Canada signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. July 1. A system of generalized tar iff preferences for impor ts f rom developing countries came in to force. August 2. Canada and the United States agreed on a cer t if ica t ion scheme which permitted a resumption of U.S. cattle and beef exports to Canada. At the same time, Canada announced a beef stabilization program and a global import quo ta system for imports of cattle and beef for the year August 12, 1974 to August 11, 1975. The import quotas were based on the average impor ts over the previous f ive years. September 22. Guidelines on the export and stockpil- ing of u ran ium were issued. A supplemental statement was issued on December 23. October 10. Canada subscribed to the Fund's Volun- ta ry Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. November 18. The budget statement included a pro- posal for temporary tariff reductions on consumer goods (for a period un t il June 30, 1976) covering an- nual impor ts of about Can$l billion. The reductions ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA took effect on November 19. The duty-free import privileges for Canadian tourists returning from abroad were increased in December. November 22. It was announced that exports of crude oil to the United States would be progressively cur- tailed, beginning January 1, 1975, and phased out by the end of 1983. December 30. It was announced that during the 60 days beginning January 1, 1975, direct and indirect imports of nylon woven fabrics originating in the Re- public of Korea would be restricted to a specified quan- tity. NOTE 1 On January 29, 1975, the Finance Minister stated that the Government of Canada did not intend borrowing in the petrodollar market, but that it would welcome private invest- ments provided they did not upset the exchange markets. As regards real estate, some private investment of petrodollars in housing would be welcomed, but investment in mortgages was preferable and no loans to government agencies financing housing would be accepted. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Central African Republic has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the interven- tion currency, between the Banque des Etats de FA f r ique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commis- sion. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris ex- change market rate for the currency concerned. With the exception of those relating to gold, the Central African Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories, except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivo ry Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries, except the Central African Republic i tse lf, are considered fore ign countries, and in principle f inanc ial relations on ly w i th foreign countries are subject to exchange control. All remittances to non-BEAC countries are subject to a commission of 0.25 per cent. Administration of Control All d ra ft legislation, directives, correspondence, and contracts hav ing a direct or indirect bearing on the finances of the State require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval au tho r i ty to the Director of the Budget. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the M in is t ry of Finance supervises borrow ing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, and inward and ou tward direct in- vestment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval au tho r i ty to the BEAC,2 to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Adm in is tra t ion. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be ef- fected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is t ry of Mines and Geology. Prescription of Currency The Central African Republic is an Operations Ac- count coun t ry of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Operations Account w i th the 100 French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.3 Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The principal nonresident accounts are Foreign Accounts in Francs. BEAC banknotes received by the foreign correspon- dents of authorized banks and mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Bangui by the Bank of France or the BCEAO may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Af- rica are suspended. The import from all countries of a few commodities also produced domestically is prohib- ited. The import of certain foods tu f fs is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inade- quate. Impor ts of certain goods, when not originating in a member coun try of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC), may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. The import of firearms is prohibited irrespective of origin. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and w i thout an import li- cense. All other imports f rom EEC countries (the origi- nal member states) also are free from quantitative restrictions. Impor ts from all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing within the framework of an annual import program of an indica- t ive character. All impo rt transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank. The im- port license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for In visibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Op- erations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equiv- alent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; of this allocation, an amount equivalent to CFAF 25,000 may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Any exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 that remains after return to the Central African Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip, for business travel to any other foreign country; of this allocation, an amount equiva- lent to CFAF 5,000 may be taken out in foreign bank- notes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Central African Republic is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travel- ers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency and other foreign means of payment up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BEAC banknotes into foreign cur- rency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are suspended. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, to- bacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside the French Franc Area require li- censes, which are issued freely. The National Market- ing Office for Agricultural Products has a monopoly over the export of agricultural products. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated within one month from the due date; the latter must not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization is obtained. Export proceeds re- ceived in currencies other than those of France or an- other Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected within a month of the due date and if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central African Re- public and France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control ap- proval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign borrowing by the government or its public and semipublic enter- prises, as well as all foreign borrowing with a govern- ment guarantee, requires the prior approval of the Director of the Budget within the Ministry of Finance. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central African Republic; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduc- tion of foreign securities in the Central African Repub- lic, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad4 require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in the Central African Republic5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submit- ted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC inves tmen ts in the Central African Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation in- volves the re l inqu ish ing of a par t ic ipa t ion that had pre- viously been approved as con s t i tu t ing the mak ing of a direct inves tment in the Central African Republic. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves t- ments, whether these are Central African Republic in- vestments abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct invest- men ts are defined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not con- sidered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of fo r- eign securities in the Central African Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Central African Republic Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or o f fe r- ing for sale in the Central African Republic has previ- ously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in the Central African Re- public, or by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between the Cen- tral African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or f irms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contract- ing of loans referred to under (4) that are free of autho- rization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or subsidiar- ies in the Central African Republic of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak- 102 ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the oper- ation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 6 2 / 3 55 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69 /47 of September 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18 /65 of Decem- ber 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and min- ing enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the im- port of specified equipment; in addition, certain enter- prises receive exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of prefer- ential trea tment in accordance w i th which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Indus try, who is the Chairman of the Inves tment Commission which considers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential trea tmen ts A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recom- mendation of the Council of Ministers. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central African Republic. Im- ports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require a license, which is seldom granted; in practice, imports and exports are made by an authorized pur- chasing office. Exempt f rom prior authorization are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt im- ports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Cer- tain companies have been officially appointed as Offices for the Purchase, Impo r t, and Export of Gold and Raw Diamonds. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies w i th in predetermined margins. A jo int decision ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to this effect was taken on February 1 by the Ministers of Finance of the member countries of the BEAC. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in the Central African Republic also ceased to operate. The financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area hence- forth took place only through the official exchange market and through Foreign Accounts in Francs. No exchange control regulations to this effect were issued in the Central African Republic. April 23. The Central African Republic ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the GATT in respect of Japan. May 2. A commission of 0.25 per cent was levied on all transactions in banknotes not issued by the BEAC. May 6. Ordinance No. 74/032 introduced a commis- sion of 0.25 per cent on all remittances to non-BEAC countries. May 6. Decree No. 74/184 made the BEAC respon- sible for control over the repatriation of net export proceeds and stated that the due date of an export contract, and hence the due date of the export proceeds, could not be later than 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination, unless special authorization was obtained. May 17. The Government announced the national- ization of petroleum distribution facilities previously operated by certain foreign oil companies. Civil avia- CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC tion services and three companies operating in other fields were also nationalized. November 19. Ordinance No. 74/108 revoked, with effect from November 20, Ordinance No. 68/065 of November 27, 1968, which instituted a tax on exchange operations. This action abolished the exchange tax of 2Y2 per cent levied on most exchange transactions with, and payments to, countries outside the French Franc Area. NOTES 1 The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Repub- lic is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 The authority delegated to the BEAC relates to (1) the control over the external position of the banks, (2) the grant- ing of exceptional travel allocations in excess of the basic allowances, and (3) the control over the repatriation of net export proceeds. 3 There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement with the Sudan. 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Central African Republic. 5 Including those made by companies in the Central Afri- can Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Central African Republic of foreign companies. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Chad has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, l which is off ic ia l ly maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the in terven t ion currency, be- tween the Banque des Etats de PA f r ique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 — F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivo ry Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Chad itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle, financial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to ex- change control. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on all capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the account of the Trea- sury. Administration of Control The Office of the Minister of Finance supervises bor- row ing and lend ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and in- ward and outward direct investment; it also issues im- port and export authorizations for gold. Exchange control is also administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated his approval authority in part to the authorized banks. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of State in Charge of the Modern Economy, Planning, Commerce, and International Cooperation. Prescription of Currency Chad is an Operations Account coun try of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Op- erations Account w i th the French Treasury; settle- ments w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other ins t i tu te of issue that main- 104 tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited freely to Foreign Accounts in Francs maintained by the fore ign correspondents of authorized banks, provided that the notes are mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Chad by the correspondent banks concerned. Imports and Import Payments Impor ts from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohib- ited. Impor ts f rom all sources of wheat, wheat f lour, and sugar require licenses. All other imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area and f rom EEC countries other than France may be made freely. All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of fore ign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Minister of State in Charge of the Modern Economy, Planning, Commerce, and In terna- tional Cooperation on the basis of proposals drawn up by the Committee on Imports. The import program contains global quotas for im- ports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries w i th abnormal competitive ad- vantages. In addition, the program contains global quotas for imports of wheat, wheat f lou r, and sugar from EEC countries, countries in the French Franc Area, as well as other countries. Specified imports f rom neighboring countries not be- longing to the French Franc Area (the Libyan Arab Republic, Nigeria, and the Sudan) up to a value of CFAF 3 million a year in each direction for a single importer may be made through compensation transac- tions. All impo rt transactions valued at CFAF 100,000 or more and relating to foreign countries must be domi- ciled w i th an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Forward cover for imports from for- eign countries is only permitted for specified commodi- ties and requires the prior approval of the Office of the Minister of Finance. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Chad must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a spe- cial allocation of the equivalent of up to CFAF 400,000 a person a trip; the Office of the Minister of Finance may issue exceptional allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC bank- notes. A resident going abroad for less than 24 hours may not take out more than CFAF 5,000 in CFA banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry, or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may reconvert in to foreign currency BEAC banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 that have been obtained from the sale of foreign means of payments that were declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohib- ited. All exports to non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan Arab Republic, Nigeria, and the Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Ex- ports of cotton are the monopoly of COTONTCHAD. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Opera- tions Account country must be surrendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within two months of the due date. CHAD Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area may be re- tained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign currency surrendered, within two months of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) and other foreign means of payment. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign cur- rency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Chad by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Chad. A commission of 0.25 per cent is levied on capital transfers to foreign countries, except those made for the account of the Treasury. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable or suspended inso- far as they would be contrary to the exchange control regulations) are maintained over borrowing and lend- ing abroad, over inward and outward direct invest- ment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or re- ceipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Chad, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 2 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Chad3 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the Minis- ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postpone- 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD ment of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Chad must also be declared to the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment in Chad. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Chadian investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Chad, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Di- rect investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Chad requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Chadian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, adver- tising, or offering for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financ- ing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans con- tracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minis- ter of Finance within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridical persons whose regis- tered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Fi- nance w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the 106 amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, pro- vided, however, that the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Commercial banks must maintain in Chad a specified m in imum proportion of their assets. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp- tion from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treat- ment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in speci- fied new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of State in Charge of the Modern Econ- omy, Planning, Commerce, and International Coopera- tion, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is sub- mitted to the Council of Ministers. Gold Chad has issued f ive gold coins of CFAF 1,000, 3,000, 5,000, 10,000, and 20,000 which are legal tender. Ordinance No. 3 /PR /TP of February 10, 1968 con- cerning nonmonetary gold (ratified by Law No. 23 of June 4, 1968), in conjunction with relevant exchange control regulations, governs the holding, sale, import, circulation, export, and processing of gold and diamonds. Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless thay have obtained an authorization issued by the President acting on the advice of the Minister of Mines. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Office of the Minister of Finance and by the Directorate of Mines and Geology as well as the visa of the Foreign Trade Office. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Exports of unworked gold and of raw diamonds (as well as domestic purchases and sales of both) are the monopoly of an approved Office for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAVIE), which is a private company. Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD rencies w i th in predetermined margins. A jo int decision to this effect was taken on February 1 by the Ministers of Finance of the member countries of the BEAC. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Chad also ceased to operate. The financial f ranc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official exchange market and through For- eign Accounts in Francs. No exchange control regula- tions to this effect had been issued in Chad by March 1975. May 1. A commission of 0.25 per cent was intro- duced on capital transfers to countries that are not members of the BEAC, except those made for the ac- count of the Treasury. NOTES 1 The CFA f ranc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Central African Republic, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon. 2 Inc lud ing those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Chad and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Chad. 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Chad that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (which was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Chilean peso established with the Fund on October 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the official market (known as the banking market) and the brokers' mar- ket. Only the Central Bank of Chile, the Banco del Estado, authorized commercial banks, and other per- sons or entities authorized by the Central Bank may operate in these markets; at present, brokers are not permitted to operate in either market. Outward trans- fers through both markets are controlled. The rates of exchange in both markets are set by the Central Bank and are adjusted periodically. Through the bank ing market pass government transactions, all trade and trade-related transactions, all capital transactions, and most invisible transactions other than travel. Only travel expenditures, royalties, and a few residual trans- actions in invisibles are conducted through the brokers' market. Transactions in the banking market are for both spot and forward delivery at the same exchange rate; for- ward exchange purchases are mandatory for imports of most commodities, and export proceeds (other than those from copper, nitrate, and iron and a few minor exports) may be sold forward. For both types of trans- action, settlement in escudos is effected at the time the foreign exchange contract is negotiated. Transactions in the brokers' market are for spot delivery only. There is some restriction on the availability of foreign ex- change in that the Central Bank sells exchange to the commercial banks only for forward delivery (120 days or 90 days from the date of settlement in escudos for settlement on a letter of credit basis or on a documen- tary collection basis, respectively); banks must sell the exchange to importers on the same terms. On December 31, 1974 the exchange rate in the banking market was E° 1,870 per US$1. In the brokers' market, the basic exchange rate was E° 2,000 per US$ 1; the application on the selling side of three exchange taxes totaling 13.15 per cent, together w i th a commis- sion fee and a tax on the commission amoun t ing to 1.3 per cent, resulted in an effective selling exchange rate of E° 2,289 per US$1. In both markets, commissions were permitted only on sales of exchange, and these could not exceed 4/i0 of 1 per cent in the bank ing mar- ket or 5/io of 1 per cent in the brokers' market. Most transfers of prof i ts and dividends are settled in the banking market, subject to an exchange tax of 18.5 per cent. 108 Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Department of International Transactions of the Central Bank are in charge of the operation of the exchange control sys- tem. Some functions of the Foreign Trade Department have been delegated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports, all im- ports of the copper indus try, and some imports of the nitrate and iodine indus try has been delegated to the Copper Corporation (CODELCO), which is supervised by the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks. Imports for the public sector are supervised by the interministerial Import Committee for the Public Sec- tor, on which the Central Bank is also represented. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colom- bia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Chile and the central bank of the country concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Settlements with other countries must take place in specified convertible currencies. There are inoperative bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, and Poland. Certain payments and transfers to South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and imports of military equipment from South Africa are prohibited. There is a List of Permitted Imports; commodities not appear- ing on it are prohibited unless imported through a "free port" zone (see below) or unless they are on Chile's National List negotiated with LAFTA or are imported from Andean Pact countries. A small number of com- modities may be considered as effectively prohibited for private importation since, although on the List of Per- mitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent unless they are imported by public sector agencies, originate in Andean Pact countries, are imported under a special regime, or are on the National List and originate in a LAFTA coun- try; the Executive Committee of the Central Bank, however, may grant specific exemptions. Goods may be normally imported in any amount. Prior to shipment, all imports must be registered with the Central Bank, which is empowered to reject import applications but currently is not exercising this authority. Imports on deferred payment terms (cobertura diferidd) require prior authorization of the credit terms by the Central Bank. Imports of goods not on the permitted list that are imported into "free port" zones such as Arica, Magallanes, Aysen, and Chiloe, may not ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain commodities (including automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. Importers may purchase forward exchange as soon as their import applications have been approved; forward purchase is mandatory for most im- ports. Settlements in escudos is effected at the time the forward exchange contract is negotiated. Foreign ex- change for payments of approved imports is sold by the Central Bank for delivery 120 days or 90 days from the date of the escudo payment (i.e., from the date on which the importer buys his exchange forward, see sec- tion on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports are subject to a registration tax of 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Most are settled in the banking market, while travel and certain residual invisible transactions are settled in the brokers' market. Payments through this market may be effected up to established limits for a number of purposes: for tourist travel (in addition to fares; all allocations are subject to a tax at a rate of 13.15 per cent) the equivalent of US$500 for travel to neighboring countries; the equivalent of US$1,000 for travel to other parts of Latin America (defined to in- clude the Bahamas, Curasao, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico); the equivalent of US$2,000 for travel to Canada, the United States, Europe, and other countries (for trips of over 30 days to countries in this group, an extra allowance of US$60 for each additional day is available, up to a maximum of US$1,000); for purchases of books and periodicals US$100 a person a year. At the end of 1974 the basic allocation for family remittances re- mained suspended. Banks may sell up to US$1,200 a person a year for payment of insurance premiums contracted prior to November 20, 1970 in foreign currency with national insurance companies or with foreign companies autho- rized to operate in Chile. Transfers of other insurance premiums require the approval of the Central Bank, which acts on the advice of the Superintendent of Insur- ance. Payments for medicines and pharmaceutical products may only be made provided that the product in question is not available in Chile. A number of trans- actions conducted in the banking market are also sub- ject to established limits: student registration fees, US$50 a person a year; students abroad on scholarship, US$95 to US$400 a person a month; other students abroad, US$125 to US$175 a person a month. Trans- fers in excess of the limits and those in respect of trans- actions for which no basic allocation has been announced require the prior authorization of the Cen- tral Bank. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market are subject to a tax of 14.45 per cent; this tax is the sum CHILE of three exchange taxes of 10 per cent, 3 per cent, and 0.15 per cent, and a commission and tax thereon (total- ing 1.3 per cent). For some invisibles the Central Bank must approve a transfer application (solicitud de giro); the only documentation required for invisibles that are neither covered by the approval authority delegated to authorized commercial banks nor by a solicitud de giro is an application form (carta petition) addressed to the Central Bank through an authorized bank. Residents of Chilean nationality and residents of foreign nationality who have spent more than a year in Chile, when travel- ing to countries outside Latin America, are required to pay a travel tax of E ° 50,000 a trip.1 Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for humanitarian reasons, ex- ports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of arms and related equipment to South Africa also are prohibited. Additionally, exports of some items are prohibited or are subject to quota irrespective of destination. All exports must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank and the sale proceeds of exports are subject to surrender require- ments. Commercial banks are authorized to purchase on a spot or a forward basis foreign exchange proceeds from exporters. In the case of forward purchases, the forward period cannot be under 10 days nor over 120 days; banks may sell this exchange forward to import- ers for up to 120 days for letter of credit terms or up to 90 days for documentary collection terms. Receipts from major exports (including copper) and from a few minor exports are sold to the Central Bank on a spot basis, either direct or through commercial banks. Most export proceeds subject to surrender require- ments must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered within 10 days thereafter, but for specified goods this period is extended to be- tween 120 days and 480 days. Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Proceeds from productive services ren- dered by residents, from most insurance transactions by national insurance companies or by foreign insur- ance companies authorized to operate in Chile, and from certain commercial services (news agency fees, royalties, copyrights, etc.) must be sold in the banking market. Exchange received from communication agen- cies' fees, nontrade-related transport services, tourist expenditure, foreign student remittances, and a few other invisible transactions must be sold in the brokers' market. Capital Capital inflows are free, but most outflows are re- stricted. All capital transactions and remittances of dividends, profits, and interest are settled in the bank- 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE ing marke t. Chile has ratified the Andean Group's Car- tagena Agreement and in principle limits transfers of p ro f i t s, dividends, and interest on foreign capital to 14 per cent per annum. All new foreign borrowing or refi- nanc ing of ex is t ing credits by commercial banks re- quires prior approval by the Central Bank. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three d i f fe rent a r rangemen ts depending on the purpose and type of the investment. (1) Ar t ic le 14 of Decree No. 1272 of September 7, 1961 stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of fore ign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold f ree ly th rough authorized banks when the inves tor (individual or corpora t ion, na t ional or fore ign) has reg- istered w i th the Central Bank. Such capital may on ly be repatriated w i th the prior approval of the Central Bank. The same is t rue for the t rans fer of in terest and p ro f i ts on such cap i ta l. Repa tr ia t ion is on ly allowed in accordance w i th the amor t iza t ion schedule established at the t ime of reg is t ra t ion. (2) According to Article 16 of the above Decree, the inve s tor may en ter in to a loan agreement w i th a Chilean i n d i v i d u al or corpora t ion or i n to an agreement w i th a n a t ion al en terpr ise w i th a view to capital pa r t ic ipa t ion. The Cen tral Bank guarantees access to the b ank ing ma rke t, both for the servicing of loans and the re-ex- port of cap i ta l, and for the rem i t tance of in te rest and p ro f i t s. The gua ran tee is given subject to cer ta in condi- t ions, one of wh ich is a m i n im um inve s tment period of three years. As an app l ica t ion and ex tens ion of A r t i- cle 16, the Executive Committee of the Central Bank on November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an addi- t ional regime to f u r t h er fore ign inves tment in Chilean export indus tr ies. Under th is regime, cap i tal may be b rought in for the p romo t ion of expor ts of ag r i cu l tu r a l, indus tr ia l, and m in ing products and it may be repatri- a ted, provided t h at the amount repa tr ia ted is f inanced f rom the increase in the vo lume of expo r ts resu l t ing f rom the i n v e s tm e n t. The regime is imp lemen ted t h r o u gh i n d i v i d u al inve s tment agreemen ts in accor- dance w i th Article 16. Repa tr ia t ion of the invested cap i tal may s ta rt two years a f t er e n t ry and may am o u nt to 12V2 per cent a n n u a l ly of the invested cap i ta l. In add i t ion, the rem i t tance of in te rest or p ro f i ts is pe rm i t- ted a n n u a l ly up to 7 per cent of the inves ted capital. The above privileges are granted on ly to f i rms th at w i ll not purchase fore ign exchange in the b ank ing m a rk et to acquire abroad any mach ine ry, equ ipmen t, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. In a f u r t h er ex tens ion of the regime und er A r t ic le 16, on June 2, 1966, the Cen t ral Bank announced t h at it wou ld gua ran tee the fore ign exchange for repa t r ia t ion of, and earnings on, imported capital, provided th at certain cond i t ions were met. These were (a) the inv e s t- ment mu st be deemed to be of impo r tance to the Ch i l- ean economy; (b) it must amount to at least US$100,000 or the equ iva lent in o ther currencies; (c) the capital must remain in the coun t ry for at least three years, and subsequent repa t r ia t ion mu st not be more 110 than 20 per cent a year, on a noncumulative basis; (d) the exchange must be sold in the banking market; and (e) the interest rate on credit to Chilean firms must not be higher than that in the domestic market. (3) Decree-Law No. 600 of July 7, 1974, the Foreign Investment Law, establishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. Authorization to make a foreign investment in Chile is granted by a Foreign Investment Committee through a fixed-term contract containing undertakings regarding the applicable exchange regime, the withdrawal of capi- tal and remittances of interest and profits, and taxes. The contracts normally are for 10 years, which may be extended to 20 years in special cases. Any foreign cred- its invo lved must be authorized by, or registered with, the Central Bank. Foreign capital which entered Chile prior to the p romu lga t ion of Decree-Law No. 600 con- t inues to be subject to the regulations prevailing on the date of en t ry but must be registered w i th the Foreign Inves tment Committee w i th in a year from its promul- gation. Decision No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement is con- sidered to override any con t ra ry provisions of Arti- cles 14 and 16 of Decree No. 1272 and of Decree-Law No. 258 of 1960, wh ich prior to Decree-Law No. 600 was the principal law governing foreign investment in Chile. Gold Chile has issued f o ur gold coins, which are legal tender. New ly m ined gold is purchased from the pro- ducers by Empresa Nacional de Mineria (ENAM l), wh ich, a f t er r e f i n i n g, sells it to the Central Bank. The la t ter has th is gold coined at the M in t. The Central Bank makes gold ava i lab le to den tal users (in the form of Chilean gold coins) and to indus tr ial users (in the form of m i nt b lanks ), at prices th at are adjusted f rom t ime to t ime on the basis of quo ta t ions on the London gold ma rke t .2 The Central Bank has exclusive power to purchase, sell, nego t ia te, or t ran s fer gold in any form for any purpose, except in the form of jewe lry. All impo rt and export of gold contained in minerals is subject to special au tho r iza t ion by the Central Bank. Gold bars are imported and exported only by the Cen- t r al B ank. The impo rt of gold coins and of gold dust, gold lea f, and gold w i re for indus tr ial use is subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requ iremen t; the impo rt of gold coins is not no rma l ly permitted. Changes during 1974 January 7. Cen t ral Bank Circular No. 2035 revised the export regulations. The clearance of shipping docu- men ts, p rev iou s ly delegated to commercial banks, was again u n d e r t a k en by the Central Bank. The require- ment th at exporters f u r n i sh a power of a t to rney en- t r u s t i ng an au thor ized bank w i th the collection of export proceeds was revoked. Banks were permitted to sell to expo r te rs fo re ign exchange for insurance premi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution urns on c.i.f. sales (in addition to foreign exchange for the freight). January 7. The Minister of Finance announced that the import policy of the new Government would be based on freedom of importation and a reduction in protection. January 9. Circular No. 2036 added payments for correspondence courses to the list of permissible invisi- ble payments of Circular No. 1993; the applicable ex- change market was the brokers* market. January 16. Circular No. 2038 modified Circular No. 1980. Banks were authorized to purchase forward the export proceeds of commodities not yet exported (in addition to those of goods already shipped, as cov- ered by Circular No. 1980), but not earlier than 90 days before the prospective shipping date, and not for periods shorter than 10 days or longer than 180 days. The facility was not applicable to copper, iron, nitrates, and certain other commodities. January 16. Circular No. 2040 replaced Circular No. 1946 and modified the lists of currencies in which import and export transactions must be contracted. January 16. Circular No. 2039 extended the validity period (until shipment) of import registrations for pay- ment on a collection basis to 240 days from their date of issue. January 16. Circular No. 2041 established that do- mestic sales of unworked copper and copper by-prod- ucts by companies subject to the special exchange rate for copper (Circular No. 2008) must be settled in for- eign exchange. The Central Bank would make the ex- change available to resident national firms at the banking market rate specified in Circular No. 1972 (E° 280 per US$1). January 16. Circular No. 2043 established norms re- garding permissible interest payments on imports on a collection basis and on deferred credit (cobertura diferidd) terms. For the former, the term was limited to the period between date of shipment and the ma tur i ty date of the forward sale, and the rate to IV2 per cent over the New York prime rate on the date of shipment. For imports on deferred credit terms, the interest rate would be that approved by the Central Bank when considering the application. No interest would nor- mally be allowed on imports on consignment. Circular No. 1833 was revoked. January 17. Circular No. 2044 regulated foreign ex- change and import transactions under Decree-Law No. 110 of November 2, 1973, as amended by De- cree-Law No. 176 of December 10, 1973, the amnesty arrangements for funds held abroad (blanqueo de capi- tales); the foreign exchange for which the benefit of these arrangements was sought had to be deposited with an authorized bank before January 31. The depos- its could be held as foreign currency time deposits, used by the holder for his own imports of specified goods (subject to a tax payable in foreign exchange and rang- ing from 1 per cent to 260 per cent), converted into a deposit account available for specific payments (gener- CHILE ally those eligible for the brokers' market, including fam i ly remittances), or converted immediately into es- cudos (but only half the amount of foreign exchange, and provided the remainder was kept on deposit for at least six months). The interest rate for the first 180 days would increase gradually from zero per cent to 6 per cent; thereafter, the rate would be set by the Central Bank but could not be less than the U.S. prime rate or the London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR). Similar facilities would be available to other persons depositing their foreign currency holdings with banks before January 31. Circular No. 1929, which had al- lowed diplomats and Chilean and foreign juridical per- sons to establish foreign currency demand and time deposits in Chile, was revoked. (The principal benefits of Circular No. 2044 were on January 24 extended to existing holders of foreign currency accounts by Circu- lar No. 2048.) January 17. With effect from January 18, Circular No. 2045 changed the exchange rate in the banking market from E° 360 to E° 385 per US$1. January 17. Ministry of Economy Decree No. 23 eliminated the refunds of taxes and other charges (drawbacks) for all minor exports. January 31. With effect from February 1, Circular No. 2053 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 405 per US$1. January. A program of import du ty reductions was initiated by Decree No. 453. February 1. Circular No. 2052 provided regulations regarding the expenditures and sales of passages of foreign shipping companies operating in Chile. February 6. Circular No. 2054 revoked Circular No. 1784 which had limited the travel exchange alloca- tion for passengers with pasaje liberado to 40 per cent of the normal travel allocations. Such passengers were now entitled to the fu ll travel exchange allocations. February 6. Circular No. 2056 changed the rate for copper exports from E° 130 to E ° 200 per US$1, with immediate effect. February 7. Circular No. 2057 ruled that purchases of exchange proceeds from exports of copper and by-products would be made in the banking market, as follows: (1) the special copper rate defined in Circular No. 1972 (section 8) was applicable to exports of cop- per ore of the large copper companies, the Andean Mining Company, and some medium-sized copper companies; and (2) the banking market rate was appli- cable to smelting ore or the value-added portion of exports. Circular No. 2041 was revoked. February 21. With effect from February 22, Circular No. 2061 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 450 per US$1. February 21. Circular No. 2062 was issued regarding inward and outward transfers of capital under Arti- cle 14 of Decree No. 1272 of 1961. The circular took into account the provisions of Decree-Law No. 326, published in the Official Gazette on the same day, which revised Article 14 of Decree No. 1272. The con- I ll ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE version of impo r ted fo re ign exchange in to escudos re- qu ired the prior au tho r iza t ion of the Cen t ral Bank, wh ich wou ld issue to the person or f i rm concerned a nom ina t ive and non t ran s fe rab le cer t if ica te s ta t ing the amount conver ted. Such capital could be free ly ex- ported 18 mon ths f rom the da te of convers ion, again subject to prior Central Bank app rova l. P ro f i ts on such cap i tal were f ree ly expor tab le once a year, subject to Cen tral Bank au tho r iza t ion. Where the cap i tal was im- ported in the form of a credit, interest on foreign credits could be t r an s f e r r ed sem iannua l ly, subject to a ceiling of 2 per cent over the New York prime ra te or the LIBO rate. These fore ign credits do not en t i t le the holder of the t r a n s f er ce r t i f ica te to remit p ro f i t s. Capital in f lows wou ld be conver ted at the b an k ing ra te on the day of convers ion, and ou tw a rd rem i t tances of cap i ta l, p ro f i t s, and in te rest would also be made th rough the bank ing m a rk e t, at the ra te p reva i l ing on the day of the ou tw a rd t ran s fe r. The regu la t ions applicable to the re-exporta- t ion of cap i tal and the rem i t tance of p ro f i ts and divi- dends would be those that were in force on the day when the fore ign exchange was conver ted i n to escudos. March 8. W i th effect f rom March 11, Circular No. 2068 changed the exchange ra te in the b ank ing ma rket to E° 470 per US$1 and the ra te for copper export proceeds to E° 235 per US$1. March 18. Circular No. 2071 added certain com- modities to those th at could be impor ted under Circu- lar No. 2044. The taxes, payable in foreign exchange, on these items were 1 per cent, 50 per cent, or 150 per cent. March 19. Decree No. 446 of the M in is t ry of Fi- nance reduced one of the exchange taxes on sales of fore ign exchange in the brokers' market f rom 50 per cent to 10 per cent and left in force the exchange taxes of 3 per cent and 0.15 per cent. The total applicable exchange tax thus was reduced from 53.15 per cent to 13.15 per cent. March 20. W i th effect f rom March 21, Circular No. 2073 changed the exchange ra te in the bank ing market to E° 525 per US$1, the exchange rate in the brokers' market to E° 740 per US$1, and the rate for copper export proceeds to E ° 263 per US$1. April 5. Circular No. 2076 suspended, w i th m inor exceptions, the requirement of a 10,000 per cent prior import deposit previously applicable to goods under more than 2,500 t a r i ff headings. The Central Bank was authorized to ma in ta in the 10,000 per cent deposit re- qu irement for public sector impor ts of goods that were also domestically produced, un t il a decree-law had been issued which would subject public sector impor ts to the same customs duties as private sector imports. Also, all imports of capital goods hencefor th could be made on a cash payment basis, and all existing require- men ts that the visa of a public sector agency be subm i t- ted prior to import registration were revoked. April 5. W i th effect f rom April 8, Circular No. 2077 changed the exchange rate in the bank ing market to E° 550 per US$1. 112 April 10. Circular No. 2082 modified the exchange allocations for travel abroad. The new allowances were (1) US$15 a person a day, subject to a limit of US$60 a trip, for des t ina t ions w i th in 500 kilometers of the Chilean f ron t ier and for all destinations in Argen t ina except the cities of Buenos Aires, Bahia Blanca, and Comodoro R ivadav ia; (2) US$20 a person a day, sub- ject to a l im it of US$200 a t r ip, for the rest of Latin America ( in c lud ing Curasao, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and the Bahamas); and (3) US$30 a person a day, sub- ject to a l im it of US$540 a tr ip, for the United States, Canada, Europe, and other countries. (Half of these amoun ts were ava i lab le for children under seven.) Travel exchange could not be purchased earlier than seven days prior to the tr ip. The Central Bank could in cer ta in cases g rant larger amoun ts, e.g., for business tr ips or travel for medical reasons. The allocations were app l icab le on ly to res iden ts not receiving any income in fo re ign cu r rency. April 11. C ircu lar No. 2079 allowed banks to pur- chase spot or fo rw a rd, on behalf of the Central Bank, the fo re ign exchange proceeds f rom exports of worked and semiworked copper and copper by-produc ts. Such fore ign exchange had to be sold to the Central Bank on the day of purchase. April 11. C ircu lar No. 2083 s imp l if ied some of the requ i remen ts for the sale of travel exchange to resi- den ts. April 29. W i th effect f rom April 30, Circular No. 2092 changed the exchange ra te in the bank ing ma rket to E° 580 per US$1. May 3. Circular No. 2095 stated that black and wh i te television receivers had been added to the list of permitted impo r ts and made these subject to an ad- vance deposit of 10,000 per cen t, which wou ld be re- leased au toma t ica l ly. May 8. Circular No. 2097 established that imports made under Decree-Law No. 110 (blanqueo de capi- tales) could exceed by 10 per cent the amount deposited by the person or f i rm concerned. The additional fore ign exchange had to be purchased at the time the import payment was made, at the preva i l ing brokers' market rate. May 9. C ircu lar No. 2098 increased the foreign ex- change allowances for travel abroad to the fo l low ing amoun t s: (1) for des t ina t ions w i th in 500 kilometers f rom the Chilean border or w i t h in Argentina (except Buenos Aires, Bahia Blanca, and Comodoro Rivada- via), US$20 a person a day, subject to a max imum of US$100 a t r ip; (2) US$30 a person a day, subject to a l im it of US$360 a t r ip, for other Latin American countries ( inc lud ing Curagao, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and the Bahamas); and (3) US$40 a person a day, sub- ject to a l im it of US$720 a tr ip, for the United States, Canada, Europe, and other countries. May 9. Circular No. 2099 modified Circular No. 1972 and provided th at banks had to sell any excess over the ir permitted overbought foreign exchange posi- t ions to the Central Bank at the end of each week, or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution at shorter intervals if a bank so desired. The Central Bank could at any time require banks to sell to it all or part of their exchange positions. May 9. Circular No. 2100 allowed banks to open import letters of credit in amounts 10 per cent in excess of the c.i.f. value listed in the import registration. May 10. Circular No. 2103 authorized the customs authorities to accept imports shipped after the expira- tion of the import registration. The delay, however, could not exceed 30 days. May 10. With effect from May 13, Circular No. 2104 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 620 per US$1 and the rate for copper proceeds to E° 300 per US$1. May 13. Circular No. 2105 added aircraft for civil use to the list of permitted imports. They were exempt from advance deposit. May 13. Circular No. 2106 replaced Circular No. 1993 and provided a new listing of payments and receipts in respect of invisibles according to the ex- change rate applicable. Among the changes was the shifting of transfers of royalties and technical assistance payments from the banking market to the brokers' market. May 23. Circular No. 2108 replaced Circular No. 2030 and authorized commercial banks to sell spot foreign exchange in the banking market to importers and exporters for payment of insurance premiums to insurance companies authorized to operate in Chile. The foreign currency concerned was transferable only for specified purposes, such as payment of indemnities and reinsurance transactions. May 24. Circular No. 2109 revoked Circular No. 1980 and reduced the terms at which the Central Bank would sell foreign exchange forward to banks from 180 days to 150 days (after settlement in escudos) for imports under letter of credit and from 180 days to 90 days for imports on a documentary collection basis (including cobertura diferida quotas). The 90-day term was applicable also to those invisible payments that had to be settled forward in the bank ing market. Banks had to sell such foreign exchange on the same terms. The term at which banks could purchase forward the export proceeds of national exporters could not be less than 10 days or more than 150 days; this foreign ex- change could be sold by banks at a term not exceeding 150 days for imports on a letter of credit basis, or not exceeding 90 days for imports on other terms. May 24. Circular No. 2110 authorized commercial banks to sell foreign exchange in advance to cover in ter- est and amortization payments on suppliers' credits (coberturas diferidas) ma tu r ing prior to Janua ry 1, 1975. Banks could purchase the necessary exchange from the Central Bank. Similar arrangements were ap- plicable to certain foreign loans managed by the Cen- tral Bank. May 24. With effect from May 27, Circular No. 2112 changed the exchange rate in the bank ing market to E° 660 per US$1, that in the brokers' market to E° 720 CHILE per US$1, and the rate for copper export proceeds to E° 330 per US$1. May 31. Circular No. 2117 amended Circular No. 2106 by substituting "profits and dividends" for "profits" in certain payment and receipt items under code numbers 25 and 75. June 4. With effect from June 5, Circular No. 2118 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 720 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 790 per US$1. June 4. Circular No. 2119 announced the issuance by the Central Bank, for sale to the public through the banking system, of bearer certificates denominated in U.S. dollars and usable for import payments or other payments eligible for the banking market rate (cer- tificados para cobertura en mercado bancario or CEPACs). The certificates were valid for one year from the date of issue, and could be used beginning 30 days after the date of issue; within the validity period, the Central Bank would make available to the owner or holder, upon his request, the sum in U.S. dollars stated on the certificate. On or after their ma tur i ty date, the certificates were redeemable in escudos only, for the amount initially paid. The denominations were US$500, US$1,000, US$5,000, and US$10,000. Banks could purchase certificates from the Central Bank, for account of their customers or the general public, at the forward banking market exchange rate in effect on the date of issue, plus such premium or minus such dis- count as m ight be established by the Central Bank, plus a 2 per mill commission charge; banks, in turn, could add a 2 per mill commission charge to this total. The certificates could also be used by importers as collateral for the opening of letters of credit. June 5. Circular No. 2120 authorized commercial banks to engage in foreign exchange operations relating to specified invisible transactions, without express ap- proval from the Central Bank. For most of these, ex- change could be made available up to the amount of bills or invoices, while specific exchange allocations were set for some; these included education expenses (US$30 a mon th) and imports of medicines (US$100 a month). June 6. Circular No. 2122 exempted motorcycles from the 10,000 per cent advance import deposit. June 12. Circular No. 2125 eliminated the 10,000 per cent advance import deposit on 11 items, including certain clothing and footwear. June 12. Circular No. 2126 amended Circular No. 2039 by extending to 240 days the validity of im- port registrations for goods imported under letter of credit or w i thout foreign exchange (sin cobertura). The maximum shipment period for imports financed with suppliers' credit or foreign loans remained 360 days. June 12. Circular No. 2128 modified Circular No. 2038 and allowed the proceeds from exports of semimanufactured copper to be purchased fo rwa rd be- fore shipment. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE June 12. Circular No. 2129 exempted certain tires and tubes f rom the 10,000 per cent advance import deposit. June 12. Circular No. 2130 denied access to the CEPAC ma rket to f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion s, inc lud ing the Banco del Estado and the commercial banks. June 13. Circular No. 2131 provided that banks no longer had to requ ire the submission of a travel certifi- cate issued by the In te rnal Revenue Service before sell- ing travel exchange to the public. June 13. Circular No. 2132 allowed banks to t rans- fer fo re ign exchange abroad d irec t ly for t ransac t ions w i th shor t- term commercial f in an c ing w i th Czechoslo- vak ia and Yugos lav ia. As a resu l t, the requ irement of t ran s fer of fore ign exchange to the Central Bank (in accordance w i th Circular No. 2032) was l im i ted to transac t ions w i th Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. June 17. Circular No. 2133 permitted banks to ac- cept fo re ign currency t ime deposits f rom Chilean and foreign physical and juridical persons, at free ly agreed interest rates, that could not exceed the fo l low ing: for deposits of one year or more, two th i rds of the prime ra te or the LIBO rate, whichever was lower at the time of se t t lemen t, and for deposits at two years or more, the prime ra te or the LIBO rate, wh ichever was lower at the time of settlement. The regu la t ions govern ing fo re ign cu r rency deposits made under Decree-Law No. 110 (Circulars Nos. 2044 and 2048) were mod if ied. June 17. W i th effect f rom June 18, Circular No. 2135 changed the exchange rate in the b ank ing ma rket to E° 750 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 825 per US$1. June 18. Circular No. 2134 normalized paymen ts abroad in respect of the servicing of certain f inanc ial debts that had fa l len due prior to Janua ry 1, 1974 and related to capital imported e i ther under DLF No. 258 of 1960 or under Articles 15 and 16 of Supreme Decree No. 1272 of 1961. July 3. Circular No. 2143 extended by 90 days the va l id i ty of all impo rt reg is tra t ions that were valid on J anu a ry 16, 1974 or June 12, 1974, for purposes of Circulars Nos. 2039 and 2126. July 3. Circular No. 2145 amended Circular No. 2120 w i th respect to remittances of consular fees col- lected for export transactions. July 5. Circular No. 2146 announced new opera t ing rules gove rn ing the placement, use, and redemption of CEPACs. They superseded the annex to Circular No. 2119. July 5. W i th effect f rom Ju ly 8, Circular No. 2147 changed the exchange rate for proceeds f rom copper exports to E° 550 per US$1. July 7. Decree-Law No. 600 con ta in ing a new For- eign Inves tment Law was promulgated. July 10. Circular No. 2148 excepted ob l iga t ions vis-a-vis Finland, Israel, Liechtenstein, and Portugal f rom the provisions of Circular No. 2032 regard ing the suspension of paymen ts in respect of capital and in te r- 114 est on medium-term and long-term operations ma tu r- ing in 1974. July 11. W i th effect f rom Ju ly 12, Circular No. 2149 changed the exchange ra te in the bank ing market to E° 800 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 880 per US$1. July 15. Circular No. 2152 listed certain modifica- tions in the list of permitted impor ts in troduced by Decree No. 371 of the M in i s t ry of Economy, and speci- fied the advance deposits required. July 24. W i th effect f rom Ju ly 25, Circular No. 2155 changed the exchange ra te in the bank ing market to E° 830 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 910 per US$1. July 25. Circular No. 2156 informed banks th at the Central Bank would no longer purchase Italian or Spanish bankno tes. July 30. W i th effect f rom Ju ly 31, Circular No. 2159 changed the exchange ra te in the bank ing market to E° 860 per US$1 and t h at in the brokers' market to E° 950 per US$1. August 6. Circular No. 2163 changed the exchange ra te for the proceeds f rom copper expor ts w i th immedi- ate effect to E° 860 per US$1. This action un i f ied the spot exchange rates in the b ank ing ma rke t. August 6. Circular No. 2164 provided that up to 80 per cent of travel exchange allocations could hencefor th be gran ted in the form of travelers checks; the portion that could be sold in the form of foreign bankno tes remained at 20 per cent. Circular No. 2082 was amended accord ing ly. August 7. Decree No. 1130 of the M in is t ry of Fi- nance reduced impo rt duties on capital goods to 10 per cent when payment was made on a cash basis. August 12. Circular No. 2167 modified Circular No. 2109 and reduced the term at which the Central Bank wou ld sell exchange fo rw a rd f rom 150 to 120 days for impor ts under le t ter of credit. The term at which banks could purchase export proceeds fo rw a rd was also reduced to 120 days. August 12. W i th effect f rom August 13, Circular No. 2168 changed the exchange ra te in the bank ing market (including th at for copper exports) to E ° 900 per US$1; the rate in the brokers' ma rket was changed to E° 970 per US$1. August 12. Circular No. 2169 announced new oper- a t ing rules for the placement, use, and redemption of CEPACs. They superseded those in the annex to Circu- lar No. 2146. August 14. Circular No. 2171 made jeep-type vehi- cles subject to the 10,000 per cent advance deposit requ iremen t. August 21. Circular No. 2175 authorized commer- cial banks and the Banco del Estado to determine free ly the interest rates on time deposits in foreign exchange to be received f rom their customers or the public; in ter- est and principal would be freely transferable in foreign cu r rency. Deposits under Decree-Law No. 110 re- mained subject to Circular No. 2133. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 21. Circular No. 2176 instructed banks, when selling travel exchange to persons going to Italy or Spain, to make the exchange available in the form of banknotes of the country concerned. August 26. With effect from August 27, Circular No. 2178 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 930 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 990 per US$1. September 2. With effect from September 3, Circular No. 2181 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 990 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 1,050 per US$1. September 6. Circular No. 2183 exempted 32 items from the 10,000 per cent advance import deposit. September 12. Circular No. 2185 provided that banks could sell Argentine currency in the brokers' market only at the exchange rates fixed daily by the Central Bank. The exchange allocations for travel to Argentina could henceforth be granted entirely in Ar- gentine banknotes. September 12. Circular No. 2186 revoked Circulars Nos. 2057 and 2079 and authorized the commercial banks and the Banco del Estado to purchase the foreign exchange proceeds from exports of worked and semi- worked copper and copper by-products. These pur- chases would be subject to the regulations applicable to other exports. September 12. Circular No. 2187 announced that the Central Bank stood ready to sell pounds sterling for- ward to commercial banks and the Banco del Estado, where there was an under ly ing transaction eligible for the bank ing market. September 12. Circular No. 2188 released banks from the obligation of reporting daily on the use, avail- ability, and repayment of their lines of credit. September 12. Circular No. 2189 lifted the suspen- sion of payments on short-term commercial transac- tions w i th the German Democratic Republic, insofar as shipment had taken place after October 1, 1973. September 12. Circular No. 2190 defined the concept of "payment on a cash basis" for imports of capital goods (see August 7, above). September 12. Circular No. 2191 replaced Circular No. 1791 and contained new regulations for the import and re-export of goods entering under private storage or temporary admission status, as well as for the related payments. September 13. Circular No. 2192 repeated the in- structions given by the Central Bank in a circular letter of January 7, 1974 regarding the purchase of Argentine banknotes from Argentine tourists. Purchases could not exceed the equivalent of US$300 a person over 12 (US$150 for children between 3 and 12). The Central Bank would take these banknotes over once a week from banks, travel agencies, etc. September 13. Circular No. 2194 increased by 20 per cent the travel allowance for trips to Argentina, pro- vided the allowance was taken up entirely in Argentine pesos. CHILE September 16. With effect from September 17, Circu- lar No. 2195 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E ° 1,050 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 1,110 per US$1. September 20. Circular No. 2197 modified the ex- change control regulations applicable to foreign trans- portation companies laid down in Circulars Nos. 2007 and 2052. September 20. Circular No. 2198 modified item No. 10 of Circular No. 1972 and revoked Circular No. 2029. September 26. Circular No. 2204 modified Circular No. 1972 and allowed the banks to charge a commis- sion of 4/10 of 1 per cent on sales of exchange in the banking market and of %0 of 1 per cent on those in the brokers' market. September 26. Circular No. 2205 increased the ex- change allowances for travel abroad. For neighboring countries, the allowance was US$500, for other Latin American countries (including the Bahamas, Curasao, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico), US$1,000; and for Canada, Europe, the United States, and other countries, US$2,000. If trips to the last group of countries ex- ceeded 30 days, banks were authorized to sell US$60 for each additional day, up to a maximum of US$1,000. (Exchange for travel to Tacna and Rio Gallegos was made available only in Peruvian soles or Argentine pesos, respectively.) The fu ll allocations could be taken up in banknotes or in negotiable documents, and the allocations were the same for adults and children. September 26. With effect from September 27, Circu- lar No. 2206 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 1,100 per US$1 and the rate in the bro- kers' market to E ° 1,180 per US$1. September 30. Circular No. 2208 revoked Circular No. 1723, dealing with the import regime applicable in Arica. September 30. Circular No. 2210 provided that ex- change allocations for travel to Italy and Spain could be provided as indicated in Circulars Nos. 2082 and 2205 whenever the Central Bank was unable to supply commercial banks w i th Italian or Spanish banknotes. October 2. Circular No. 2213 modified Circular No. 1476 and permitted banks to pay out foreign cur- rency against any type of foreign currency remittance received from abroad and against balances in current accounts denominated in foreign currencies and held with them. October 2. Circular No. 2214 allowed the import w i thout prior registration of goods on the permitted list up to US$200 f.o.b. per shipment, on a sin cobertura basis and for noncommercial purposes. October 3. Circular No. 2215 revoked Circulars Nos. 2040 and 2066 and issued new rules regarding the currencies in which import and export contracts must be expressed. The New Zealand dollar was included among the permissible currencies, and for import trans- actions the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling were permissible for all countries (with the exception that the 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE latter could not be used in transactions with countries with which reciprocal credit agreements were in force). October 3. Circular No. 2216 applied the procedure under item 2 of Circular No. 2134 to deposits and remittances in respect of financial debts contracted un- der Articles 15 and 16 of the Foreign Exchange Law and under DFL No. 258 which had fallen due, or would fall due, in 1974. October 9. Circular No. 2218 expanded the scope of forward transactions in the banking market. Banks could sell foreign exchange forward to importers as follows: (1) for 10-120 days for transactions under let- ters of credit; (2) for 10-90 days for import transactions under other payment methods (and for invisibles that must be settled in the forward banking market); (3) for up to 120 days when the exchange was derived from export proceeds sold forward for a period exceeding 120 days; such export proceeds could also be sold to the Central Bank, at terms exceeding 120 days. Banks could purchase foreign exchange forward from exporters as follows: (1) in general, the term could not be less than 10 days or more than 120 days; (2) banks could also purchase forward at terms exceeding 120 days and not more than 180 days, but not earlier than 120 days before shipment; (3) only proceeds from minor exports were eligible, and those from copper, iron ore, and nitrates could only be sold spot, under previously existing arrangements. Banks were assigned maximum overbought and oversold positions in the forward banking market. October 9. Circular No. 2220 supplemented Circular No. 2197 on the regime applicable to foreign transpor- tation companies and revoked Circular No. 2052. October 14. Decree-Law No. 694 extended to No- vember 30, 1974 the deadline for presentation of im- port registrations under Decree-Law No. 110. October 16. With effect from October 17, Circular No. 2224 changed the exchange rate in the bank ing market to E° 1,250 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E ° 1,350 per US$1. October 18. Circular No. 2227 permitted the transfer abroad of foreign exchange registered by means of aporte de capital certificates issued under the old text of Article 14 of the Foreign Exchange Law and re-reg- istered under Decree-Law No. 326 of February 24. October 25. Circular No. 2231 provided that transac- tions with the People's Republic of China were to be settled in convertible currencies, w i th the exception of those initiated before October 4, 1974, which could still be settled in renminbi. October 30. Circular No. 2234 stated that the Cen- tral Bank had decided to discontinue invok ing the safe- guard clause of Chapter VI of the Montevideo Treaty and of Chapter IX of the Cartagena Agreement. As a result, certain restrictive measures in respect of imports ceased to be applicable to goods originating in LAFTA countries and countries of the Andean Group. November 5. Circular No. 2237 made certain chassis 116 for trucks subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit. November 6. Circular No. 2239 contained directives to banks aimed at ensuring that the rate of interest payable on their foreign credit lines did not exceed the New York prime rate or the LI BO rate by more than 1.5 per cent per annum. November 6. With effect from November 7, Circular No. 2243 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 1,340 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 1,450 per US$1. November 15. CODELCO'S monopoly over copper ex- ports was terminated for the production of small and medium-sized mines. November 18. Circular No. 2246 stated that the prior visa of the Ministry of Agriculture no longer was re- quired for the registration of imports of fertilizers. November 25. With effect from November 26, Circu- lar No. 2251 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 1,450 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 1,560 per US$1. December 6. Circular No. 2258 revised the instruc- tions to banks regarding credit lines with foreign corre- spondents. The principal change was that banks were freely permitted to contract such credit lines, provided the norms of Circular No. 2239 were observed. With respect to banks in Argentina, the regulations of Letter No. 1183 of November 7, 1974 remained in force. December 9. With effect from December 10, Circular No. 2261 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 1,680 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 1,800 per US$1. December 11. Circular No. 2262 (as amended by Circular No. 2265 of December 12) specified Decem- ber 27 as the date for the remittance abroad of the installment to be settled in 1974 on financial debts outstanding under the former Article 14 of Decree No. 1272. December 19. Circular No. 2270 extended the valid- ity of existing and fu tu re import registrations to 360 days. December 27. Circular No. 2274 instructed banks on the procedures to follow with respect to payments due on medium-term and long-term foreign debts, includ- ing those on cobertura diferida imports, and those un- der the short-term financing arrangements with Eastern European countries. December 30. With effect from December 31, Circu- lar No. 2275 changed the exchange rate in the banking market to E° 1,870 per US$1 and that in the brokers' market to E° 2,000 per US$1. NOTES 1 On March 1, 1975 the travel tax was increased to E° 147,000 for travel to Latin American countries other than Argentina, Bolivia, and Peru, for which there was an exemp- tion, and to E° 686,000 for travel to other countries. 2 New regulations for sales to domestic users of gold were issued by the Central Bank on January 16, 1975 and came into effect on January 18, 1975. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0204628 gram of fine gold per New Taiwan Dollar. On February 16, 1973, the Republic of China established a central rate of NT$1 = SDR 0.0218144, corresponding at the time to 0.0193858 gram of f ine gold per new Taiwan dollar or NT$38 = US$1, and availed itself of wider margins. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$37.95 and NTS38.05, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also off i- cially posted, with daily quotations based on the buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in markets abroad.1 Currencies for which rates are not officially posted may be accepted by authorized banks ("ap- pointed banks")* and the rates are calculated in accor- dance with foreign market quotations.2 With certain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. There is no exchange market. The appointed banks clear their exchange transactions at the end of each day with the Central Bank. Forward cover facilities are limited to import and export transactions and to the officially posted currencies, with the exception of the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies con- cerning foreign exchange and trade controls. Foreign exchange and trade matters are entrusted to the Minis- tries of Finance and Economic Affairs and the Central Bank of China. The Ministry of Finance has general jurisdiction over foreign exchange laws and regula- tions, and is in charge of government remittances. The Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of China is responsible for the overall management of foreign exchange, for the determination of the official buying and selling rates of exchange, and for the super- vision of the appointed banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Central Bank also licenses private remittances and capital movements. The Board of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Eco- nomic Affairs coordinates industrial and trade policies, including those relating to the import regime and ex- port promotion, and is in charge of the issuance of import and export licenses. By delegation, the Applica- tion Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of For- eign Trade screens applications for import licenses and issues the licenses; for some goods, however, import applications and licenses are screened and issued by 17 appointed banks and their branches. Export applica- tions are screened, and export permits are issued, by 29 appointed banks. Most foreign exchange transactions are conducted through appointed banks. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dol- lars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, pounds ster- ling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars.3 Currencies not officially posted may be accepted by appointed banks but must be converted into posted currencies in exchange markets abroad. The Central Bank supplies foreign exchange in the form of any of the posted currencies for making payments to residents of foreign countries. Nonresident Accounts The Republic of China's exchange control regula- tions do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, persons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treat- ment essentially different from that accorded to resi- dents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same regulations as other ac- counts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of for- eign countries. Residents may maintain accounts in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or Hong Kong dollars, as follows: Holders of foreign banknotes or travelers checks may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of remittances from abroad or of money or- ders or other negotiable instruments drawn on foreign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Ex- change Accounts. Balances in Foreign Currency Ac- counts may be withdrawn in the original currency or in new Taiwan dollars, after conversion at the official buy- ing rate. Balances in Foreign Exchange Accounts may be withdrawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, with the exception that foreign exchange that originated in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Ac- counts and Foreign Currency Accounts are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and passbook ac- counts (which do not bear interest). Imports and Import Payments4' Most imports require individual licenses. Appointed banks have authority to screen import applications for most items on the permissible list (see below), to issue import licenses on behalf of the Central Bank, and to make the necessary foreign exchange available; these goods are automatically approved for an import li- cense. For other commodities subject to license, license 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA applications are screened, and import licenses are is- sued, by the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade. The holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the necessary foreign ex- change from an appointed bank. Importers of goods on the permissible list may con- tract on documents against payment (D/P), documents against acceptance (D/A), or usance letter of credit terms (credit terms of less than 180 days may be ap- proved by appointed banks, while longer terms require approval by the Central Bank). For imports on a letter of credit basis, exchange settlement corresponding to 15 per cent of the letter of credit must be made within 28 days of approval of the license for imports taking place on the basis of sight letters of credit, usance let- ters of credit, letters of credit financed by self-provided exchange, and letters of credit on an installment pay- ment basis; for letters of credit covering bulk imports specially approved by the Ministry of Economic Af- fairs, the settlement requirement is 10 per cent. This advance settlement requirement, the so-called perform- ance deposit, is a condition for the issuance of a letter of credit. Imports from communist countries are prohibited in principle, although imports of bulk goods, industrial raw materials, and many consumer goods from any source other than the Poeple's Republic of China are now being licensed. The authorities license and check imports from Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain certain imports direct from the country of production and to control effectively imports from the People's Republic of China; for similar reasons, certain commodities are not permitted to be imported from Hong Kong, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, and Singapore. Certain commodities financed with U.S. aid funds (in- cluding tied letter of credit funds) can be imported only from the United States. Applications for imports from Japan of machinery valued over US$200,000 for each individual order require the approval of the Board of Foreign Trade. Imports of 759 items on the permissible list (see below) are allowed only when the goods origi- nate outside Asia. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) prohibited, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The prohibited im- ports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods excluded by most countries from importation but also a wide range of Pharmaceuticals. The con- trolled list contains, in addition to such items as arms and ammunition, ships, and poisonous chemicals, a number of luxury goods and less essential items (such as certain Chinese luxury foods, cigarettes, cigars, li- quor, certain medicines, tea, sugar and its substitutes, molasses, made-up clothing, consumer durables, an- tiques, certain jewelry, gold, and silver) and goods sub- ject to domestic regulation and allocation. The first type of goods are licensed restrictively;5 goods of the second type are often imported by government agen- cies, which offer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Liquor and cigarettes are imported by a gov- 118 ernment monopoly organization, which is also respon- sible for domestic distribution of these commodities. Goods on the permissible list are licensed liberally and can be imported by both end-users and traders. The importation of items on the controlled list is permitted only to factories and end-users. Manufacturers apply- ing for licenses for raw materials are encouraged to give preference to locally produced supplies. On Decem- ber 31, 1974, of 15,261 classified import items, 13 were prohibited, 471 were controlled, and 14,777 were per- missible; on the same date, only 84 items on the permis- sible list required approval by the Board of Foreign Trade, while all others could be imported under the automatic approval system. A general (covering) licensing procedure has been introduced in respect of a few items on the controlled list. Under this procedure, manufacturers and other direct end-users are granted authorization semiannu- ally for the importation of listed items specified by value and by quan t i ty. Exchange for such imports is obtainable automatically each time the importer pres- ents the general approved license at an appointed bank. Furthermore, an automatic approval system is applied to most items on the permissible list. Under this sys- tem, importers may obtain foreign exchange at any appointed bank by submitting import licenses which are automatically approved. On December 31, 1973, the system applied to 10,271 items, and on Decem- ber 31, 1974 to 14,693 items. Special regulations apply to 6 commodities normally imported in bulk shipments.6 They are subject to an- nual quotas and priority must be given to Chinese flag vessels for their importation. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of the three main groups of importers: government trading agencies, qualified private traders, and end-users and manufacturers. The import of crude oil is confined to the Chinese Petroleum Corporation. The Central Trust of China is the main government trading agency. It handles imports for government and military organizations, public enterprises, and other customers. Another government trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Government, some local in- dustries, and certain other customers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("regis- tered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") from the Board of Foreign Trade; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a minimum capital of NT$500,000 and an "export re- cord" equivalent to more than US$100,000 for the last year. Traders licensed to operate on a commission basis may act only as agents for foreign suppliers. They also must be registered by the Board of Foreign Trade. End-users and manufacturers are permitted to im- port raw materials, machinery, and replacement equip- ment needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as production capacity and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution equipment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. When the capital goods concerned are available from domestic sources, import licenses usually are not issued. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are licensed up to requirements (e.g., raw cotton, wool, and wood for the production of plywood). According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of official ex- change reserves, and (2) imports which are made with- out recourse to official exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U.S. P.L. 480 pro- gram and (b) those paid for with self-provided ex- change or exchange supplied by foreign investors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self-provided exchange are those financed by im- porters out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating from exchange receipts exempt from the surrender requirement. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval from the Central Bank of China. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The transfer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized foreign investments in the Republic of China may be made without restriction. Residents may at any time (but not more often than four times a year) make outward trans- fers up to the equivalent of US$200 for any purpose other than import payments; applications for such per- sonal remittances are approved automatically. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other in- visibles is allocated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 60 per cent of their monthly salary. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their depen- dents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$ 150 a month. Membership fees of foreign institutions and certain payments for news services, books, and magazines (per- sonal subscriptions for reference purposes) are also ap- proved. Receipts from local subscriptions to, and sales of, imported newspapers and periodicals are remittable. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rentals may be transferred abroad; the remainder is to be used for local expenses. The remittance of the earnings of foreign entertainers may be approved on a case-by-case basis. The full amount of tuition and living expenses during the first academic year of students studying abroad may be remitted, and up to US$3,600 a year in the second to f i f th academic years. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to REPUBLIC OF CHINA US$1,000 a person a trip (US$500 for each accompany- ing dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel; visas for tourist travel, however, are not normally granted to Chinese nationals. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$1,200 a month for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Appli- cations for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved on their merits. Residents leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$2,000 in domestic bank- notes and 20 coins and the equivalent of US$400 in foreign currencies. Nonresident travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry, and may in addition convert local currency into foreign currency upon sub- mission of the foreign exchange memorandum evidenc- ing their acquisition of local currency by sale of exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds 7 All exports require licenses, mainly in order to en- sure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to noncommunist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted after they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are handled by government trading agencies. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms and asparagus. The export of some foodstuffs, of fertilizers, paper and pulp, logs, cement, steel, and scrap of iron and steel, is either prohibited or suspended. There are ceilings on the export of textiles and stainless flatware to specified countries. Manufacturers who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, after export of the pro- cessed goods, refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials. These charges include import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some prefer- ential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. With minor exceptions, exporters are required to sur- render exchange earnings accruing from exports imme- diately after their collection. Most exports to any permitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, provided that payment is not de- ferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$200 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$200 with- out providing evidence that they have surrendered for- eign exchange. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to pro- ceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those ap- plicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors out- side the country, and originally approved by the Invest- ment Commission of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, must be surrendered to the banks; otherwise, earnings may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit on a foreign ex- change account. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign cur- rency and either hold or surrender it; the amount im- ported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$4,000 for each traveler; a license from the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Republic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954 (as amended in 1959 and 1968) and the Statute for the Encouragement of Investment of September 10, 1960 (as amended in 1965, 1967, 1970, and 1974), new foreign investments ap- proved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unre- stricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earn- ings, 2 years after completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the invested funds; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original form; (4) favor- able treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the for- eign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immun i ty from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign investments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that ac- corded to new domestic investments. Laws for the en- couragement of foreign investments provide for additional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, invest- ments by nonresidents must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, communications, and manufacturing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) who in- tend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under the foreign investment laws, as described above, must obtain ap- 120 proval from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Pur- chases and sales of stocks and bonds by nonresidents must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Department of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of China in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manufac- tured equipment, and remittances of foreign exchange. Applications that receive sympathetic treatment in- clude those which would assist in assuring a stable supply of raw materials for domestic industries. Portfo- lio investment abroad by residents who are private per- sons is not normally permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and foreign persons who have settled in the Republic of China and wish to return to their native countries, are not ac- corded any transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic, other than an exchange allowance of US$2,000 for each person. Persons outside the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, and so for th, are not normally granted the right of transferring them from the Republic. Certain inflows of short-term capital are restricted. Domestic banks are permitted to hold short-term de- posits (with maturities up to three months) with their correspondents but they are not normally permitted to make longer-term time deposits abroad or to acquire foreign securities. Gold Producers of gold must sell their output to ornamen- tal gold processors (registered goldsmiths, silversmiths, and jewelers), through open tenders conducted by the Central Trust of China; gold delivered to the Central Trust for refining must have a fineness of 0.945, any necessary reduction being undertaken by the Taiwan Metal Mining Corporation. Any newly produced gold that remains unsold at auction must be kept in the custody of institutions specifically designated by the Government; at present, only the Central Trust is so designated. Ornamental gold processors are not per- mitted to sell gold of a fineness in excess of 0.945. Other residents may hold gold in any form and of any fineness, but its use as collateral for loans is prohib- ited. Travelers may bring in any amount of gold, which must be declared upon entry if its weight exceeds 5 shih Hang, i.e., 156.25 grams; other imports of gold are not permitted. Residents may freely take out gold in the form of jewelry, provided that its weight does not ex- ceed 2 shih Hang, i.e., 62.5 grams. Otherwise, exports of gold and gold jewelry by travelers are not normally permitted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1974 January 23. The suspension of exports of wheat flour was continued for another year. January 25. Import duties on crude petroleum and petroleum products were reduced by 50 per cent, for a period of one year. January 27. The ruling of April 1, 1973, suspending the acceptance by domestic importers and manufactur- ers from foreign suppliers or foreign banks of short-term financing and /or usance letters of credit of less than 180 days, was revoked. January 27. The ruling of April 1, 1973, that imports of machinery and equipment had to be made on a cash settlement basis by using domestic bank financing when the amount involved was less than US$3 million and the terms of repayment were less than five years, was revoked. January 27. Advance settlement requirements for imports were revised. For sight letters of credit, the requirement was reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent of the value of the letter of credit. For usance letters of credit and letters of credit financed by self-provided exchange the requirement was increased from 15 per cent to 20 per cent. February 21. Tariff reductions of 50 per cent intro- duced in August 1973 for imports of nine industrial raw material products were extended for one year. February 25. Tariff reductions of 50 per cent intro- duced in February 1973 for imports of ten items (in- cluding barley, corn, soybeans, wheat bran, and scrap iron and steel) were extended for one year. March 1. Remittances abroad by foreign technicians were reduced from 70 per cent to 60 per cent of mon th ly salary. April 13. Tariff reductions ranging from 15 per cent to 35 per cent introduced in 1973 for imports of certain industrial raw materials and some iron products were extended for one year. May 15. Imports from all sources of completely as- sembled sedans, jeeps, and station wagons were prohib- ited. May 15. Imports of color television sets originating in Japan were prohibited. June 1. The duration of domestic currency export loans that authorized banks could grant to local ex- porters in advance of settlement in foreign exchange was extended from 90 days to 180 days after the date of issuance of the certificate authorizing advance settle- ment. The daily amount up to which individual banks could make such loans without prior approval from the Central Bank was increased from US$500,000 to US$1,000,000. June 13. Import duties on certain animal and vegeta- ble fa ts and oils were reduced by 50 per cent for one year. June 15. The limits on the export and import of domestic banknotes by travelers were increased from NT$ 1,000 to NT$2,000 and NT$4,000, respectively. REPUBLIC OF CHINA July 9. Most of the tariff reductions of 25-50 per cent introduced in December 1973 for a period of one year were made permanent with their incorporation into the tariff law. Those not so incorporated were in December 1974 extended for another year. November 15. Borrowing abroad in the form of for- eign currency loans for conversion into new Taiwan dollars to be used as working capital was allowed again, with the permissible amount to be decided on a case-by-case basis by the Central Bank. Approvals for such borrowing had been suspended since January 15, 1973. November 15. Advance settlement requirements for imports under sight letters of credit, usance letters of credit, letters of credit financed by self-provided ex- change, and letters of credit on an installment basis were reduced from 20 per cent to 15 per cent. November 15. It was announced that, taking into account international price levels, applications to im- port raw materials also produced locally would be screened in light of the possibility of substituting local raw materials; the review would be subject to negotia- tion between manufacturers, the Board of Foreign Trade, and suppliers of raw materials. December 10. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were changed from NT$37.90 and NT$38.10, respectively, to NT$37.95 and NT$38.05. December 16. The policy of encouraging local manu- facturers to use locally produced instead of imported goods was applied to picture tubes for black and white television sets, enamel-coated wires, and printed circuit boards. December 16. Imports of 17 kinds of fish were pro- hibited for one year for health reasons. December 21. Imports from Asian countries of 759 items, including footwear, various textile products, air-conditioners, radio receivers and amplifiers, tape recorders, domestic refrigerators, motorcycles, cosmet- ics, glassware, pottery, and toys, were prohibited. These items remained on the permissible list. December 21. Imports from all countries of 14 kinds of old or waste textile products were shifted from the permissible to the controlled list. NOTES 1 Australian dollars, deutsche mark, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, and Swiss francs. 2 A conversion rate of Y8.88 = NT$1 exists for Japanese banknotes. 3 However, certain exports to Viet-Nam are settled under tied letters of credit in U.S. dollars which may be used only to finance imports from the United States other than surplus agricultural commodities. 4 Special regulations apply to imports into the three export processing zones. 5 Licenses for goods on the controlled list are liberally granted when the goods concerned are for equipping new facilities, e.g., hotels for the tourist trade. 6 Soybeans, wheat, barley, corn, sorghum, and rapeseed. 7 Special regulations apply to exports and re-exports from the export processing zones. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA1 (Position on January 1, 1975) Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par va lue for the Colom- bian Peso was established by Colombia w i th the Fund. However, exchange t ransac t ions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions are e f fec ted t h r o u gh the Bank of the Repub l ic (the cen t ral bank) or the authorized banks in the o f f ic ial m a rk e t — the exchange cer t if ica te ma rke t, in which the ra te f luc tua te s. On Janua ry 1, 1975, the average selling ra te in the ce r t i f ica te market was Col$28.74 per US$1. The peso equ iva lent of the Gove rnmen t 's exchange re- ceipts f rom the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Account at the cen tral bank 's accoun t ing ra te of Col$26.00 per US$1; the Gove rnment purchases exchange for all pub l ic debt payments and other expenditures included in the na- t ional budget at the same exchange rate. There are also certain other e f fec t ive exchange rates, some of wh ich result f rom a deposit requirement against foreign ex- change sold for travel purposes, or f rom a system of tax credit certificates granted on export proceeds. The d if- fe rent exchange rates and the types of transac t ion to which they app ly are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. On January 1, 1975, the f luc tua t ing buy- ing ra te for proceeds f rom coffee exports (af ter tak ing in to account a 19 per cent exchange tax) was Col$23.19 per US$1, and that for most other exports about Col$30.01 per US$1. In principle, all impo r ts are paid for at the cer t if ica te market rate, and all paymen ts and receipts in respect of current invisibles and capital also take place at that rate; d i f fe rent effective rates, how- ever, arise f rom the application of advance paymen ts deposits for purchases of exchange for certain import paymen ts and for many other purposes. A fixed ra te of Col$20.00 per US$1 applies to certain petroleum trans- actions. The Bank of the Republic stands ready to sell to the public, against payment in pesos at the certificate mar- ket selling rate ru l ing on the date of issue, exchange wa r ran ts {titulos canjeablespor certificados de cambioor titulos de divisas). These wa r ran ts, which are expressed in U.S. dollars, are negotiable and may also be ex- changed, provided that the holder presents an exchange license, for exchange certificates (for the same amount of fore ign currency and free of charge); such exchange must take place between 45 and 180 days after the date of issue. W i th in the period mentioned, wa r ran ts may also be sold to the Bank of the Republic for pesos, at the certificate market buy ing rate ruling on the date of repurchase and subject to a commission of 1 per mill. Warran ts bear interest at 7 per cent per annum. War- ran ts held for more than 180 days but less than two years may be resold to the Bank at the certificate mar- ket rate ruling 180 days after issue. They become nu ll and void two years a f ter issue. Foreign paymen ts made 122 w i th certificate exchange that has been acquired against wa r ran ts are exempt f rom the 100 per cent advance payments deposit that must otherwise be lodged for m any types of ou twa rd t rans fe rs. Between 45 and 180 days a f ter issue, wa r ran ts may also be used to purchase exchange for travel purposes. Administration of Control All impo r ts and expor ts require prior registration at the Colombian Ins t i tu te of Foreign Trade (iNCOMEx). Exchange for paymen ts must be purchased th rough the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, with an approved exchange license issued by the Exchange Of- fice of the Bank of the Republic; however, payments for specified cu r rent transactions, when made through credit ins t i tu t ions, do not requ ire prior exchange li- censes. The Mone tary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities w i th in that budget for the delivery of exchange, after se t t ing aside the amoun ts necessary to cover the obliga- t ions of the Bank of the Republic and to service the external debt of the pub l ic agencies and the National Federation of Coffee Growers. Overall import and ex- port policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Coun- cil. INCOMEX, th rough its Import Board, controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. The Na- tional Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct inves tment in Colombia to the Exchange Office and the National Planning De- p a r tm en t, wh ich evaluates new projects. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic keeps an accounting record both of fore ign inves tment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and con tro ls the movement of foreign cap i tal as well as the t ran s fer of p ro f i ts, dividends, commissions, and roya l t ies for trademarks, patents, etc. The Superintendency of Exchange Control, which is an autonomous agency reporting to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces the control and supervision over exchange t ransac t ions and is responsible for app ly ing penalties for any violation of the exchange regulations. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to in te rna t ional trans- actions are normally effected in U.S. dollars, but im- porters and exporters are also free to use Belgian francs, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds ster- l ing, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss francs. Settlements w i th Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, Hun- gary, Poland, Romania, Spain, and Yugoslavia for commercial transactions must be made th rough clear- ing accounts in accordance with the provisions of the relevant bilateral paymen ts agreement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments between Colombia and Argentina, Bo- livia, Brazil, Chile, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela are made through accounts maintained within the frame- work of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from physical or juridical persons not resident in Colombia, and these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits that they may wish to convert into Colombian currency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresi- dents, banks must obtain authorization from the Ex- change Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no prohibited import list. Imports are classi- fied as follows: goods whose import is subject to prior licensing by INCOMEX; and goods that may be imported freely without license although subject to registration. In this last category, there are a global free list applica- ble to all countries, a National Free List applicable to LAFTA countries only, and a free list applicable to Andean Common Market countries only. Liberalized imports on the global free list corresponded to about 48.8 per cent of 1974 reimbursable imports.2 All import registrations by public sector agencies are screened by INCOMEX to determine whether local substitutes are available. Import licenses for certain items are not nor- mally issued; these include arms and habit-forming drugs, certain foodstuffs, certain textiles and garments, jewelry, and a number of other consumer goods. Prior registration of the import transaction at IN- COMEX is required for all imports other than those clas- sified as "minor imports" or shipments with an f.o.b. value of less than US$100. Registration is not automat- ically accepted by INCOMEX and may be rejected. The charge for import registration is Col $100 (in some cases Col$5) plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent (with a minimum of US$4). Advance import deposits (consig- naciones) in Colombian currency of at least 40 per cent of the registered amount must be made with an autho- rized bank before import registration is permitted; the deposit may be used at any time to make import pay- ments. This deposit is increased to 100 per cent when the goods are financed by banks abroad or by suppliers* credit; in the latter case, a guarantee of 20 per cent of the amount of the registration must in addition be given, but in the former case the importer has the op- tion of mak ing a deposit of only 40 per cent, provided a guarantee of 20 per cent is given. The following are among the main exemptions from prior deposits (conslgnaciones): nonreimbursable im- ports;2 imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (the Vallejo Plan); all foodstuffs and agricultural inputs; all imports for the COLOMBIA military and the police; all imports from Andean Group countries; imports by official entities when fi- nanced with foreign credits having a maturity of at least five years; imports from Spain (when financed under the bilateral payments agreement); goods exempt by virtue of an international agreement; goods of prime necessity imported by the Institute of Agricultural Marketing (IDEMA); most imports by universities and other nonprofit-making educational institutions; books, newspapers, and magazines; and goods from countries with which Colombia maintains payments agreements, provided they are imported through San Andres or Providencia. The advance import deposit is calculated on the total value of the goods, at the current selling rate for ex- change certificates. The importer is issued a nonnegoti- able noninterest-bearing title (titulo de divisas) denominated in foreign currency and corresponding to the advance import deposit; during its six-month valid- ity the title may be used to purchase exchange for im- port payments, free of the 100 per cent advance payments deposit (see below), and at the expiration of this period the title, if unutilized, will be repurchased by the central bank at the original exchange rate. Under these arrangements, the importer is free to put up a deposit in excess of the prescribed m in imum of 40 per cent of the registration amount. A prior exchange license issued by the Exchange Office is required for payments for imports. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for an exchange li- cense, the importer must provide an advance payments deposit (depositoprovisional) in pesos equivalent to 100 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at the "Ministry of Finance exchange rate" (the average sell- ing rate for exchange certificates for the previous mon th, as determined by the Ministry of Finance). Ex- emptions include import payments made not later than 30 days after customs clearance (including import pay- ments made in advance of shipment), import payments by the government departments, municipalities, and official agencies, and payments for imports financed with foreign credits extended to the Bank of the Repub- lic, goods for general consumption imported by IDEMA, payments for the crude oil acquired by the national petroleum company (Empresa Colombiana de Pe- troleos—ECOPETROL) for refining in Colombia, imports financed by credits from the U.S. Agency for Interna- tional Development (AID), payments for imports from Spain when settled under the bilateral payments agree- ment with that country and financed by the Bank of the Republic, and import payments made with titles corre- sponding to advance import deposits. Import duties are calculated at the Ministry of Fi- nance exchange rate. In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Of the amounts collected, 3V2 per cent goes to the Export Promotion Fund, while the remainder goes to the National Treasury. Exempt 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA from this tax are impor ts by public entities, goods of LAFTA origin, and imports under the Vallejo Plan. Importers of goods financed by the U.S. AID are required to ship at least 50 per cent of the total volume of shipments on Colombian f lag ships. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the exchange cer t if ica te rate. In principle, all paymen ts for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses, which are granted according to o f f ic ia l ly established priorities determined by the Mone tary Board; however, the Bank of the Re- public may make paymen ts abroad on behalf of credit in s t i tu t ions w i thout prior exchange license, and com- mercial banks in cities where Exchange Offices are lo- cated may sell exchange directly for the purpose of foreign travel and may also t rans fer w i thout prior ap- proval paymen ts for a few other current invisibles, in- c lud ing the mon th ly allowances of s tuden ts s tudy ing abroad w i th government support. No advance pay- men ts deposit is required for invisibles, but purchases by residents of foreign currency for travel purposes are subject to a guarantee deposit of Col$10 per US$1, wh ich is retained for six mon ths. Payments for travel abroad are limited to US$40 a person a day, not to exceed US$1,400 a year; this limit may be raised to US$70 a day and US$6,300 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the coun t ry; t rans fe rs to pro- fessionals and technicians unde r tak ing courses abroad are generally restricted to US$450 a mon th for up to 12 mon ths, while for other students the ceilings va ry f rom US$200 to US$300 a mon th, depending on the cost of l iv ing in the coun t ry concerned. The Exchange Office, however, is empowered to grant larger allocations. For- eign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three mon ths may, on leaving the coun- t ry, purchase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are re- qu ired to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the coun t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports are prohibited. No export licenses are required.3 Prior application for registration, how- ever, is required for all exports except crude oil, sam- ples, and Colombian products in noncommercial quantities. If the application meets all legal require- ments, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, exporters must provide INCOMEX w i th ei- ther a personal guarantee in pesos (but w i thout deposit- ing any funds) or a bank guarantee corresponding to 20 per cent of the registered amoun t, to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Repub- lic. Coffee exporters are exempt. The periods for surren- dering export proceeds normally are as follows: (1) for coffee exports, w i th in 20 days from the date of registra- 124 tion of the export; (2) for banana exports, 50 per cent of the value must be surrendered w i th in 30 days follow- ing the registration of the export, and the remaining 50 per cent w i th in 60 days a f ter the registration; and (3) for other goods, generally w i th in 180 days of registra- t ion. However, INCOMEX may permit longer terms for goods sold on a commission basis, capital goods, and other goods that no rma l ly require more extended pay- ment terms. In add i t ion, where the exporter avails him- self of advance surrender of export proceeds, special rules are applicable for the de f in i t ive surrender. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a por t ion of the exchange proceeds sur- rendered by the expor ter of any product to repay debts for impo r ts under the Vallejo Plan incurred by the exporter concerned. All exchange proceeds f rom ex- ports, except those f rom the export of crude oil not produced by ECOPETROL, must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic; ECOPETROL, however, is permit- ted to retain part of its export proceeds abroad for the settlement of its impor ts. On surrender ing the ir export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than cof- fee, raw cattle hides, or petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts receive tax credit certificates (CATs) in an amount corresponding to a specified percentage of the total earn ings surrendered, converted at the M in is t ry of Fi- nance exchange rate. This ra t io is Y10 of 1 per cent, 5 per cent, or 7 per cent, depending on the commodity (the rate of 5 per cent is calculated on value added for exports of manu fac tu red goods under the Vallejo Plan). These certificates, which are free ly negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange, are accepted at par by tax offices three or six mon ths a f t er issuance for the payment of income tax, customs duties, and sales taxes. At the end of 1974 certificates ju st issued were quoted at a discount of about 11 per cent. The surrender of fo re ign currency earned by exports is carried out by exchanging the fore ign currency for exchange certificates that are negotiable in the bankers' marke t. The certificates have a va l id i ty of f ive to ten days, a f ter which they must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic at 90 per cent of the lowest certificate rate quoted by the Bank in the preceding week. M in imum surrender prices for coffee, bananas, and a few other exports are set f rom time to time by the Monetary Board. Coffee exports are subject to the fol- lowing regulations: (1) A minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed a f ter deduction for f re ight and insur- ance, at US$107.50 per 70-kilogram bag. (2) Exporters pay a tax in foreign exchange at the rate of 19 per cent ad valorem. Of this tax, 4 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account, of which the net product forms a contribution to the national budget. The Special Exchange Account is credited at the Bank of the Republic's accounting rate of Col$26.00 per US$1. (3) Exporters must either sur- render in the form of un trea ted coffee to the National ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Federation of Coffee Growers and without payment the equivalent of 30 per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retention) or pay the Federa- tion the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are sub- ject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad valorem (pasilla tax); the tax must be paid, either in kind or in pesos, to the Federation. (5) A committee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Man- aging Director of the Federation establishes a domestic buying price for export-type coffee, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. (6) Whenever the domes- tic support price, net of taxes and freight, exceeds a level corresponding to a spot New York price of US$0.57 a pound, the excess (net of taxes and levies) is shared among producer, Coffee Fund, and local pro- ducers' committees at a ratio of 35:30:35; in that event, the retention is to be increased and the proceeds of the increase are paid to the Coffee Fund and the producers' committees. Anticipated export proceeds from coffee may be pro- visionally surrendered in advance of actual surrender (when prefinanced by foreign buyers) provided that the latter takes place within 60 days of the provisional surrender, at the prevailing exchange rate in the certifi- cate market.4 The peso payment to the coffee exporter at the time of actual surrender is based on the certificate market rate on the day of advance surrender. Exporters of cotton, bananas, meat, tobacco, and textiles may surrender 80 per cent of their export proceeds in ad- vance, at the M in is try of Finance exchange rate; they must sell the remaining 20 per cent to the Bank of the Republic w i th in four mon ths following the advance surrender, in order to be eligible for the exchange d iffer- ential between the Ministry of Finance exchange rate and the certificate market rate prevailing at the time of definitive surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered; they are converted at the certificate market buy- ing rate. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans, direct lines of foreign credit obtained by non- bank residents,5 and the movement of capital previ- ously imported (except loans previously registered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered w i th the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic.6 Capital imports also require prior approval by the National Planning Department in accordance with directives issued by the National Council for Eco- nomic and Social Policy; capital for the petroleum in- dustry or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and En- ergy. Capital registration entitles the investor to export COLOMBIA profits and to repatriate capital at the certificate market rate on certain conditions specified in Resolution No. 17 of July 19, 1972 by the National Council for Economic and Social Policy. The transfer of profits is limited to 14 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (beginning with profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting from investments of outstanding im- portance or involving special risks in view of the cir- cumstances prevailing in the international money market. If in any year the earnings remitted are less than 14 per cent, the balance may be remitted in subse- quent years, provided that the additional remittances do not exceed 3 per cent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions from import duty and from ad- vance deposit and import license requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum industry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. Foreign loans contracted by private Colombian indi- viduals or firms are generally subject to a minimum maturity of five years and to an interest rate ceiling of 1V2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London interbank rate. Such loans normally are per- mitted only when needed as working capital by, or for direct investment in, industrial, mining, or agricultural businesses that produce for export only. Special regula- tions govern the periods for which resident banks may provide import financing from foreign currency bor- rowed abroad. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trade- marks or patents, and similar arrangements must be registered with the Exchange Office to enable the bene- ficiary to make transfers abroad. They require approval by the Royalties Committee before they can be regis- tered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royalties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of the principal investment at the prevailing certificate market rate. Ex- ports of capital by residents are restricted and such exports by private individuals are not normally permit- ted. Gold Physical and juridical persons may trade in Colom- bia in gold coins for collection purposes only. With this exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. The Bank of the Republic purchases the gold produced in the coun try at US$42.2222 an ounce and pays 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation by foreign capital m in ing companies of exchange licenses entitling them to make payments abroad for services, dividends, capi- tal repayments, taxes, etc. The remaining 50 per cent and all payments to domestic producers are paid in pesos at the certificate market exchange rate. On selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to Vlo of 1 per 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by the small producers are bought by the Bank of the Republic in Colombian pesos at their market value. The Bank of the Republic pays producers a premium to offset the difference between the in terna t ional price and the official gold price. In addition, the Bank of the Republic levies an ad valorem tax of 2 per cent on the total payment received by the miner. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for industrial use either direct or through the Co- lombian Mining Association at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the free external gold markets during the previous mon th; this price is translated into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certifi- cates on the date of sale. Imports and exports of gold are a monopoly of the Bank of the Republic; imports Table of Exchange Rates (as at J a n u a ry 1, 1975) (pesos per U.S. dollars) Buying Selling 20.00 (Fixed Rate) Purchases of c rude o il f r om fo re ign -owned compan ies in Colombia for d om e s t ic re f in ing .1 23.19 (Certificate Market Rate less 19 per cent Ex- change Tax, Fluctuating Rate) Coffee expo r t s .2 26.00 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Conve rs ion of G o v e r nm e n t 's r e c e ip ts f r om exchange t ax on co f fee expo r t s. 26.00 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Gov e rnm en t 's pu r ch a s es of exchange for servicing of pub l ic d e b t, d i p l om a t ic expen se s, o f f ic ial t r a v e l, etc. 28.74 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) A ll impo r t s. A ll o th er t r a n s a c t i o n s .4 28.63 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) N et p roceeds f r om e x p o r ts of c r u de o il and p e t r ol d e r iv a t iv e s .3 E x p o r ts f r om f r ee po r t s. A ll rece ip ts ] inv i s ib les and c a p i t al t r a n s f e r s. 28.66 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for 1/10 of 1 percent of Export Value Converted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) Expo r ts of c em ent and spec i f ied a g r i c u l t u r al and m i n e r al c omm o d i t i es ( i n c l u d i ng m i lk and d a i ry p r o d u c t s, live a n im a ls o th er t h an ca t t le, cereal g ra in s, sugar, s u l f u r, em e r a l d s, o t h er p r e c ious s ton e s, a nd go ld ) .5 30.01 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for 5 percent of Export Value Con- verted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) Spec i f ied a g r i c u l t u r al expo r t s .5'6 30.56 (Certificate Market Rate plus Tax Credit Cer- tificates for 7 per cent of Export Value Con- verted at Average Certificate Market Rate of Previous Month, Fluctuating Rate) A l l o t h er e x p o r t s .5>6>7>8 1 T h is r a te is a l so u sed as a c o m p u t a t i on r a te to d e t e r m i ne the p r ice in pesos w h i ch ECO PETROL and fo r e ign -own ed c om p a n i es r e c e i ve f or d om e s t ic sa les of c r u de p e t r o l e u m. 2 A d v a n ce s u r r e n d er of e x p o rt p r o c e e ds f r om c o f f ee m ay r e- s u lt in a d i f f e r e nt e f f e c t i ve r a t e; s ee s e c t i on on E x p o r ts a nd E x- po rt P r o c e e d s, a b o v e. 3 R e c e i p ts f r om e x p o r ts of c r u de o il by f o r e i g n - ow n ed com- p a n i es need n ot be s u r r e n d e r e d. 4 D i f f e r e nt e f f e c t i ve r a t es a r i se f r om t he a p p l i c a t i on of t he 1 00 p er c e nt a d v a n ce p a y m e n ts d e p o s it r e q u i r ed f or p u r c h a s es of e x c h a n ge for m a ny pu rpo s e s; f r om the g u a r a n t ee depo s it of C o l $ 10 p er US $1 r e q u i r ed f or p u r c h a s es of e x c h a n ge f or f o r e i gn t r a v e l; a nd f r om t he 12 p er c e nt t ax c o l l e c t ed by t he E x c h a n ge O f f i ce on c e r t a in n o n r e c u r r e nt r e m i t t a n c e s. 5T ax c r e d it c e r t i f i c a t es t r a d ed i m m e d i a t e ly a f t er issue w e re q u o t ed at a d i s c o u nt of 12.5 per c e n t. The av e r age r a te in the c e r t i f i c a te m a r k et in t he p r ev ious m o n th (D e c em b er 5, 1 9 7 4 - J a n- u a ry 4, 1 9 7 5) as d e t e rm i n ed by the M i n i s t ry of F inance was C o l $ 2 7 . 60 p er US$1. 6 E or c o t t o n, b a n a n a s, m e a t, t o b a c c o, a nd t e x t i l e s, a d v a n ce s u r r e n d er of e x p o rt p r o c e e ds m ay r e s u lt in d i f f e r e nt e f f e c t i ve r a t e s. 7 T he c e n t r al b a nk p u r c h a s es go ld f r om d om e s t ic p r o d u c e rs at a p r i ce c o r r e s p o n d i ng to t he w o r ld m a r k et p r i ce of g o l d, ca l- c u l a t ed at t he s ame e f f e c t i ve r a te as f or e x p o r ts of c omm o d i t i es e l ig ib le for t h at b u y i ng r a te (i.e., at Co l$30 .56 per US$1 on J a n u a ry 1, 1975 ). 8 E x c e pt s p e c i f i ed e x p o r ts of m a n u f a c t u r ed good s, f or w h i ch t ax c r e d it c e r t i f i c a t es a re g r a n t ed on t he bas is of v a l ue a d d ed r a t h er t h an e x p o rt v a l u e; t h is p r a c t i ce r e s u l ts in a d d i t i o n al e f f e c t i ve e x c h a n ge ra tes. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of nonmonetary gold are not normally undertaken. The assay and ref in ing houses and the m in ing com- panies producing gold are under the supervision of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies must obtain a license from the Su- perintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Res- idents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1974 During the year the selling rate in the certificate exchange market was gradually depreciated from Col$24.89 per U.S. dollar to Col$28.74 per U.S. dollar. Imports were fur ther liberalized, the rates of subsidy for nontraditional exports were reduced, and certain forms of borrowing abroad were resumed, but the use of foreign bank credit and suppliers' credit for imports was discouraged. January 1. Decree No. 1996 of September 29, 1973 came into effect. It modified the valuation basis for the tax credit certificates granted on specified exports of manufactured products (under the Vallejo Plan) from total export value to value added, when the latter was less than 40 per cent of the export value. The same decree empowered IDEMA to act as sole exporter of any agricultural product when this was deemed advisable in the light of prices abroad. January 1. Decree No. 1988 of September 29, 1973 came into effect. It reduced the rates of tax credit certif- icates on exports of timber, tanned hides and skins, platinum, emeralds, dairy products, and live animals (except fish) to 1 per cent. January 1. Decree No. 2719 of December 28, 1973 came into effect. It exempted foreign-owned commer- cial banks and other financial institutions from the pro- visions of Article 42 of Decree-Law No. 1900 of 1973, which put into force Decision No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement (prohibiting new direct foreign investment in the banking sector). The decree also exempted firms engaged in domestic trading operations from a similar prohibition, and it empowered the National Council for Economic and Social Policy to amend the rules of Arti- cle 37 of Decree-Law No. 1900 for foreign companies involved in the production of basic goods. January 23. Monetary Board Resolution No. 5 in- creased the advance deposit requirement (consignation) from 35 per cent to 40 per cent of the total value of the registered import transaction (with effect from Janu- ary 25), raised the percentage up to which the deposit could be used to make payments for imports other than the registered import transaction from 50 per cent to 100 per cent, and extended the exemptions from the deposit (1) to all imports into the free ports of San Andres and Providencia when originating in bilateral payments agreement countries, and (2) to imports by firms located in economically backward regions. COLOMBIA January 29. Decree No. 129 charged the Bank of the Republic with the collection of the 1Y2 per cent ad valorem tax on imports levied for the benefit of PRO- EXPO. January 30. The price at which the Bank of the Re- public purchased domestic gold was raised from US$38 to US$42.2222 an ounce. Foreign mining companies selling gold to the Bank of the Republic would be paid one half in foreign exchange and one half in domestic currency; all other sellers would receive the entire pay- ment in domestic currency. Peso equivalents were cal- culated at the certificate market buying rate (Monetary Board Resolution No. 6). February 5. Additional commodities were prohibited from export, including f lour, unprocessed grains (ex- cept rice), various other food products, and iron bars (INCOMEX Resolution No. 006). February 20. A special rediscount facility of US$30 million was established at the Bank of the Republic for the financing of imports of manufacturing machinery and equipment for new industrial projects, provided the payment terms did not exceed f ive years (Monetary Board Resolution No. 10). March 1. For all imports financed through nonresi- dent financial institutions the advance payment deposit was increased from 40 per cent to 100 per cent; for all nonexempt imports not so financed the deposit re- mained at 40 per cent. Importers not obtaining financ- ing from approved resident financial institutions were in addition required to lodge a payment guarantee amounting to 10 per cent of the registered import trans- action with the Exchange Office. The maximum term for import payments was made one year for capital goods (with possible extension up to three years with approval of INCOMEX) and six months for other goods (Monetary Board Resolution No. 14). March 6. Exchange licenses for the payment of mari- time freight for export shipments (other than petroleum and its derivatives, raw cattle hides, and coffee) re- quired a 20 per cent payment to the Bank of the Repub- lic in pesos at the time of application, with the balance to be deducted from the export proceeds, at the time of exchange surrender, by the Bank of the Republic (Mon- etary Board Resolution No. 15). March 6. Banks were empowered to make payments abroad for transactions covered by Resolutions Nos. 58 and 68 of 1970, with the following exception: Applicants for exchange licenses for the payment of interest, commissions, or other finance charges with respect to foreign bank credit or suppliers' credit, were required to present documents to the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic when applying (Monetary Resolution No. 16). March 6. It was announced that the amount of im- port registrations that would be accepted had been increased from US$100 million to US$125 million a month. March 7. Decree No. 387 provided specific rules for the implementation of Decree No. 2719 of Decem- 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA her 28, 1973 concerning the establishment and opera- tion of foreign-owned commercial banks and other fi- nancial institutions in Colombia. March 12. The prohibition of exports of raw sugar was lifted for certain sales to the United States and in case the M in is try of Agriculture should determine that production exceeded domestic consumption ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 014). March 26. Additional commodities were prohibited from export, including paper, certain combustible gases, and certain petroleum products. Exports of cer- tain other petroleum products were made a monopo ly of ECOPETROL (INCOMEX Resolution No. 017). March 27. A deposit requirement was reintroduced for purchases of travel exchange. The guarantee deposit was Col$2 per US$1 and had to be made by residents at the time of application for exchange licenses for the purchase of foreign currency for travel abroad (Mone- tary Board Resolution No. 19). March 27. The Bank of the Repub l ic t igh tened the supervision over the surrender of export proceeds (Monetary Board Resolution No. 18). March 28. Decree No. 515 of the M in is t ry of Finance reduced import duties on some 2,000 ta r i ff items. April 9. The export of potatoes was p roh ib i ted (!N- COMEX Resolution No. 018). April 10. The m in imum surrender price per 70-kilo- gram bag of coffee was raised f rom US$104.50 to US$114 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 21). April 27. An import category named "minor im- ports" was established, for wh ich no reg is tra t ion or prior impo rt license was requ ired. It inc luded small sh ipmen ts of spare parts, t ranspo rt materials, and cer- tain chemicals; and sh ipmen ts valued at US$100 or less of certain medical supplies, f i lm s, books, music, and stamps. Also, u rg en t ly needed replacement items and spare par ts could, w i th the approval of the Direc- tor-General of Customs, be cleared f rom customs w i th- out fu ll documen ta t ion, prov ided that th is was presented to the Customs Office w i th in 60 days of cus- toms clearance (Decree No. 745 of the M in i s t ry of Fi- nance and Public Credit). April27. Impo r ts hence fo r th could not q u a l i fy und er the Vallejo Plan unless the export commod i ty for the production of wh ich the impo rt was used had at least 40 per cent local va lue added (Decree No. 741 of the M in is t ry of Development). May 2. New m ax imum periods were set w i t h in wh ich impo r ts had to be paid. These were 9 m o n t hs a f t er sh ipment for consumer goods and raw ma ter ia ls; 15 mon ths for impo r ts under the Vallejo Plan; and three years for capital goods and equ ipmen t. The Foreign Trade Council could, however, approve periods up to f ive years for capital goods. Impo r te rs of goods fi- nanced in borrowed fore ign cu r rency by resident f i n a n- cial i n s t i t u t i o ns also became subject to the 10 per cent guarantee deposit (Mone tary Board Reso lu t ion No. 23). 128 May 2. Mone tary Board Resolution No. 23 of April 24 amended the deposit requirements of Resolu- tion No. 14 as follows: (1) For impor ts financed by a resident f inanc ial in s t i tu t ion, 40 per cent advance de- posit plus 10 per cent guarantee deposit. (2) For im- ports financed by a foreign f inanc ial ins t i tu t ion, 100 per cent advance deposit or, at the impor ter's option, 40 per cent advance deposit plus 10 per cent guarantee deposit. (3) For impor ts f inanced by the foreign sup- plier, 100 per cent advance deposit p lus 10 per cent guaran tee deposit. May 8. In addition to U.S. dollars, the Bank of the Republic was hence fo r th authorized to receive ex- change surrender, and to sell exchange for imports, in the fo l low ing currencies: Belgian f rancs, Danish kro- ner, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japan- ese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish k rone r, and Swiss f rancs. Impor ters and exporters w ish ing to make or receive payment in any other cur- rency requ ired the prior approval of INCOMEX. Pay- men ts and surrenders had to be made in the currency in wh ich the reg is tra t ion was expressed. For coffee ex- ports, the Bank of the Republic would determine the form in wh ich surrender was to take place, tak ing in to account both the m in imum price f ixed by the Mone tary Board and exchange ra te quo ta t ions abroad (Monetary Board Resolution No. 24). May 8. M in imum su r render prices were in troduced for expor ts of bananas (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 26). May 13. The period w i th in wh ich exporters were required to su r render the ir exchange proceeds hence- f o r th could be extended to 360 days af ter shipment for cap i tal goods and for goods for wh ich suppliers' credit had been extended ( INCOMEX Resolution No. 0335). May 15. Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 29 modi- f ied the domestic cu r rency p rem iums paid by the Bank of the Repub l ic to gold producers in imp lemen ta t ion of Decree-Law No. 444 of 1967. A p rem ium in pesos was granted equ iva lent to the d i f fe rence between the official pu rchas ing price and the average price in London and Zurich d u r i ng the week preceding the purchase; the Bank of the Repub l ic was au thor ized to distribute an ex t r ao rd in a ry p rem ium to s t imu la te domestic produc- t ion. May 22. The special rediscount fac i l i ty set up in Res- o lu t ion No. 10 of February 20, 1974 was extended to cover import f inanc ing up to US$8 million for certain trac tors and cargo airplanes (Mone tary Board Resolu- t ion No. 30). May 22. Impo r ts on credit terms exceeding f ive years became exempt f rom advance deposit requirements (consignaciones and guarantee deposits) (Monetary Board Resolution No. 30). May 29. Reso lu t ion No. 1514 of the Bank ing Super- v isory Office t igh tened the procedures for the sale of travel exchange by banks and of fore ign exchange for the sale on credit terms of t ranspo r ta t ion services by air and sea t r an spo rt enterprises. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 4. Exports of tires, fabrics used in the produc- tion of tires, and certain rubber products were prohib- ited (INCOMEX Resolution No. 025). June 4. The application of the import free list was extended to goods purchased on a transit basis from countries other than the country of origin (Resolution No. 027 of the Foreign Trade Council). June 19. Decree No. 1144 created an industrial and commercial free zone in Santa Marta. June 25. A total of 221 tariff items were transferred from the prior consultation list to the free import list (INCOMEX Resolution No. 033). June 26. Parts for the assembly and repair of vehicles for public transportation were freed from advance de- posit requirements (Monetary Board Resolution No. 36). June 26. Certain small passenger planes could be financed under the rediscount facility of Monetary Board Resolution No. 10 of February 20 and No. 30 of May 22 and were freed from advance deposit re- quirements (Monetary Board Resolution No. 37). June 28. Decree No. 1245 replaced the Col$5 tax (per troy ounce) on domestically produced gold by an ad valorem tax of 2 per cent on the total sales proceeds of the miner concerned. The decree also introduced a tax of 4 per cent on the value of the production of platinum. July 1. Exports of crude petroleum were suspended. The suspension was still in effect on January 1, 1975. July 3. In order to ensure exchange surrender, ex- porters (other than coffee exporters) were required with effect from August 1 to place with INCOMEX, prior to export registration, a personal bond or bank guarantee equal to 20 per cent of the export registration. For exports already registered, the bond had to equal 100 per cent of any exchange proceeds outstanding, up to - 20 per cent of the amount registered (Monetary Board Resolution No. 38). July 3. As an alternative to the provisions of Resolu- tion No. 15 of March 6, 1974, exporters were autho- rized to obtain exchange licenses for 100 per cent of advance freight payments for export sales registered on a c.i.f. or c. & f. basis if they placed with the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic a personal bond equal to the value of the freight payment; this bond would be released by the Exchange Office upon surren- der of the export proceeds (Monetary Board Resolu- tion No. 39). July 3. The special rediscount facility of Monetary Board Resolution No. 10 of February 20, 1974 and Resolution No. 30 of May 22, 1974 was extended to cover certain aircraft purchased by the public sector, and these were exempted from advance deposit require- ments (Monetary Board Resolution No. 40). July 8. Several items were added to the list of "minor imports," including certain medical products and films (Decree No. 1324 of the Ministry of Finance and Pub- lic Credit). COLOMBIA July 17. The export of flowers to the United States became a monopoly of IDEMA. Under the tax credit certificate scheme, 2.8 per cent of the relevant export subsidy went to the producer, 10.2 per cent to IDEMA, and 2 per cent to the Institute Colombiano Agropecuario (Decree No. 1418 of the Ministry of Ag- riculture). July 23. The export of rice became a monopoly of IDEMA. July 26. Decree No. 1487 empowered the National Council for Economic and Social Policy to regulate the amortization of foreign investments in the mining sec- tor. August 2. The bond (guarantee) required with import registration for imports not financed by resident finan- cial institutions (Resolution No. 23) was waived for import registrations by the national government, local governments, and public enterprises. For registration of private sector imports of goods subject to an advance deposit of 40 per cent or more and financed by resident financial institutions, a bond equal to 10 per cent of the difference between the registered amount and the amount of the advance deposit became required. For private sector imports exempt from prior deposit, the bond was set at 10 per cent of the registered amount. Importers could lodge individual or global guarantees (Monetary Board Resolution No. 48). August 21. Exchange licenses for imports of public sector agencies financed by suppliers' credits in excess of one year required the presentation of the executive resolution authorizing the borrowing (Monetary Board Resolution No. 55). September 2. The minimum surrender price for a 70-kilogram bag of coffee was reduced from US$114 to US$107 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 56). September 4. Exchange licenses for "minor imports" henceforth required only the submission of the com- mercial invoice (Monetary Board Resolution No. 58). September 10. The export of raw sugar and corn became a monopoly of IDEMA and the prohibition on corn exports was revoked (INCOMEX Resolution Nos. 049 and 052). September 10. INCOMEX was empowered to approve, in special cases and in noncommercial quantities, ex- ports of goods on the export prohibition list (INCOMEX Resolution No. 051). September 10. Ministry of Finance Circular No. 00002 provided that the 12 per cent tax on remittances of profits abroad was to be levied on the balance re- maining after deduction of the 20 per cent withholding tax, or, for remittances exempt from the latter, on the full amount of the remittance. September 77. A state of economic emergency was declared for 45 days (Decree No. 1970). Subsequently, important modifications were made in the income tax, the sales tax, and the tax credit certificate scheme. September 18. Decree No. 1978 made the explora- tion and exploitation of natural gas subject to the ex- change and trade regulations applicable to crude 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA petroleum. (On September 23, Decree No. 1999 clari- fied that this applied to new investments on ly. See also September 23, below.) September 18. The advance deposit required of resi- dents trave l ing abroad was increased to Col$10 per US$1 of foreign currency purchased, and would hence- f o r th be retained for six mon ths (Monetary Board Res- o lu t ion No. 60). September 18. Monetary Board Resolution No. 51 of 1973 and Nos. 10, 30, 37, and 40 of 1974 were revoked. Transpor ta t ion equ ipmen t, mach ine ry, and other equ ipment for the m anu f a c tu r ing indu s t ry ceased to be eligible for the rediscount fac i l i ty (Monetary Board Resolution No. 61). September 18. The system for payment of f re ight on expor ts on a c . i . f. or c. & f. basis was altered. For f re ight paymen ts on export shipments, the exporter could lodge a personal bond for the total value of estimated f re ight paymen ts as described in Resolution No. 39 of Ju ly 3. He could also app ly to the Bank of the Republic to set up a ro t a t ing f u nd for up to s ix m o n t hs for the estimated value of the fre ight payments; from th is fund w i thd r aw a ls could be made, in foreign exchange, for f r e ight paymen ts as they fe ll due. The personal bond requ i red in th is case was 30 per cent of the va lue of the paymen ts. Exporters could also request approval to open a cu r rent account in fore ign exchange out of wh ich f re ight paymen ts may be made (Mone ta ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 63). September 18. Certain l iqu id fore ign assets of banks became subject to a 100 per cent reserve requ i rement payable in pesos (Mone ta ry Board Reso lu t ion No. 62). September 18. Decree No. 1979 revoked the exemp- tion f rom impo rt du t ies g ran ted to cen tral and local government agencies, except for capital goods for com- panies p rov id ing certain approved pub l ic services. September 23. Decrees Nos. 1978 and 1999 made the exp lora t ion and p roduc t ion of n a tu r al gas subject to the fore ign exchange t rea tment applicable to petro- leum. September 24. W i th effect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1975, M in i s t ry of Finance Decree No. 2004 reduced the rates of tax credit certificates gran ted on exports f rom gener- ally 15 per cent to Y10 of 1 per cent for specified agricul- tu r al and m ineral p roduc ts; to 7 per cent for certain ag r icu l tu ral produc ts; and to 5 per cent for all o ther produc ts. September 27. Resolution No. 18 of the Council for Economic and Social Policy established special rules for fore ign inve s tment in the nickel m i n i ng sector. September 30. M in i s t ry of Finance Decree No. 2086 provided t h a t, w i th effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1975, in ca lcu la t ing the tax credit cer t if ica te en t i t lement for ex- ported m anu f a c tu r ed goods the va lue of the impor ted raw materials would be deducted f rom the va lue of the export. September 30. Decree No. 2053 reformed the taxes on income and wea l th. The Exchange Off ice was au tho- rized to collect a supp lemen ta ry tax of 12 per cent on 130 the remittance abroad of occasional nonrecurrent earn- ings or profits. October 2. Monetary Board Resolution No. 66 ex- tended un t il November 30, 1974 the deadline for the f inal liquidation of advance exchange surrenders against fu tu re coffee shipments, provided the exporter could show his stocks were at least equivalent to the advance exchange surrender. October 9. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced from US$107.00 to US$100.00 per 70-kilogram bag (Monetary Board Resolution No. 67). October 9. The re tendon on coffee exports was re- duced from 35 per cent to 30 per cent (Decree No. 2159 of the M in is t ry of Finance). October 16. The exchange rate for advance surrender of proceeds f rom f u t u re coffee exports was increased f rom Col$20.50 to Col$22.00 per US$1 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 69). October 16. The special rediscount facility for PRO- EXPO at the Bank of the Republic for the provision of wo rk ing capital to enterprises producing, storing, or selling goods (other than coffee and petroleum and its derivatives) destined exclusively for export was in- creased f rom Col$ 1,900 million to Col$2,340 million (Mone tary Board Resolution No. 70). October 16. W i th effect f rom November 1, the loca l-currency ho ld ing requ irement on certain foreign cu r rency accounts was phased out over a period of six mon ths (Mone ta ry Board Resolution No. 71). October 16. The max imum periods for import pay- men ts set in Resolution No. 23 were changed to six m o n t hs for consumer goods and raw materials (15 mon ths when impor ted under the Vallejo Plan); and th ree years for capital goods and equipment (up to five years w i th special authorization of the Foreign Trade Council). At the same time, resident banks were now perm i t ted to f inance these payment terms w i th bor- rowed fo re ign f u n d s; the interest rate could be agreed f ree ly between impo r ter and bank. For impor ts in to free t rade areas these periods ran f rom customs clear- ance ra ther th an sh ipm en t. The guarantee deposit to ensure t ime ly payment for pr iva te sector imports was increased f rom 10 per cent to 20 per cent. The resulting requ iremen ts were (1) for impor ts subject to consigna- tion of 40 per cent or more, a gua ran tee of 20 per cent of the d i f fe rence between registered amount and consig- nation;(2) for p r iva te sector impo r ts exempt f rom con- signation, 20 per cent of the registered amount; and (3) no gua ran tee for pub l ic sector impo r ts (Monetary Board Reso lu t ion No. 71). October 21. Certain bo r row ing abroad by nonbank physical or ju r id ical persons of the private sector was again pe rm i t ted. Foreign loans could be contracted for the purpose of p rov id ing wo rk ing capital or f inanc ing inves tment programs of companies producing indus- t r ia l, m i n i n g, or ag r icu l tu ral goods for export. The min- imum m a tu r i ty was set at f ive years, w i th repayments not to exceed one f i f th every 12 mon th s, and the maxi- mum ra te of in terest set at 1V2 per cent above the New ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution York prime rate or the London interbank rate. Unless otherwise approved by the Exchange Office, debts had to be serviced in the currency initially borrowed. Cred- its had to be registered with the Exchange Office within 45 days of the sale of the exchange to the Bank of the Republic, and the foreign currency proceeds had to be sold to the Bank of the Republic within 20 days of receipt (Monetary Board Resolution No. 73). October 21. Decree No. 2247 raised to 20 per cent the remittance tax on profits obtained by foreign com- panies through branches established in Colombia. The decree also increased to 40 per cent the withholding tax on dividends paid by Colombian companies to nonresi- dent foreign companies (20 per cent for companies domiciled in countries where dividends are taxed at not less than 30 per cent, and for companies 75 per cent of whose capital belongs, either directly or through other companies, to foreign individuals not resident in Co- lombia). October 28. Decree No. 2310 provided that in future the exploration and development of hydrocarbons would be undertaken either directly by ECOPETROL or through contracts between ECOPETROL and private companies. No further concessions would be granted, but those in force on October 28 would remain valid. October 31. With effect from January 1, 1975, Presi- dential Decree No. 2374 reduced the tax on the ex- change proceeds from coffee from 20 per cent to 19 per cent for the year 1975. This tax would be reduced in annual installments of 1 percentage point to 16 per cent by January 1, 1978. From October 31, 1974, the 1V2 per cent import tax previously credited to the Na- tional Coffee Fund would be credited entirely to the National Government. October 31. Decree No. 2366 increased the import tax levied for the benefit of the Fondo de Promotion de Exportaciones from \V2 per cent to 3Y2 per cent of the c.i.f. value for the period from November 12, 1974 to September 30, 1975, when it would be raised to 5 per cent. The decree also authorized PROEXPO to promote nontraditional exports by providing financial and tech- nical assistance, as well as storage and transport facili- ties. In addition, the decree eliminated w i th effect from November 12 the granting of tax credit certificates on fre igh t, insurance, and other services by stipulating that such certificates would be issued on the f.o.b. value of exports. November 1. The w i thho ld ing tax on loan interest was increased from 20 per cent to 40 per cent. Exempt from this increase were (1) foreign loans w i th a matu- rity of under one year; and (2) foreign loans with longer maturities when taken up for the production of exports. November 20. The Bank of the Republic was autho- rized to purchase exchange from foreign credits ob- tained by cotton exporters for the purpose of buying cotton for export. The interest rate for such financing was subject to approval by the Exchange Office. The export had to take place within three months of the COLOMBIA date on which the exchange was purchased by the Cen- tral Bank (Monetary Board Resolution No. 79). November 20. Monetary Board Resolution No. 79 revoked Resolution No. 69 and thus abolished with immediate effect the special exchange rate for the ad- vance surrender of the proceeds of fu tu re coffee ex- ports. As in the case of cotton, exporters would receive the certificate market rate prevailing at the time of advance surrender. November 27. The minimum surrender price per 70-kilogram bag of coffee was increased from US$100.00 to US$107.50 (Monetary Board Resolution No. 80). December 10. The Ministry of Development an- nounced that exporters would again be permitted to borrow abroad and that they would be eligible for in- terest subsidies on such borrowing. Also, the ceiling on the rediscount facilities for exporters would be raised by US$10 million and export restrictions would be re- laxed. December 11. With effect from January 1, 1975, the Bank of the Republic was required to deduct the amount required to make import payments under the Vallejo Plan from the export proceeds surrendered in respect of the relevant export transaction (Monetary Board Resolution No. 81). December 18. Monetary Board Resolution No. 83 changed the accounting exchange rate of the central bank from Col$23.70 per US$1 to Col$26.00 per US$1, to be applicable for the first time to the balance sheet for December 1974. December 18. The definitive exchange surrender for exports other than coffee henceforth had to be effected within 180 days after approval of the registration. For goods sold on a commission basis, capital goods, or other goods which by their nature and in accordance with international practice require longer payment terms, INCOMEX was entitled to grant a longer delay for final settlement. For banana exports, 50 per cent of the value had to be surrendered within 30 days after regis- tration, and the remaining 50 per cent within 60 days after registration. Any adjustments due to price varia- tions were to be made upon payment of the final install- ment. Exporters availing themselves of advance exchange surrender for freight and /or insurance pay- ments under Monetary Board Resolution No. 39 of July 3, 1974 had to guarantee the definitive surrender of the f.o.b. value of exports only (Monetary Board Resolution No. 84). December 20. Monetary Board Resolution No. 86 permitted the Bank of the Republic to purchase foreign exchange at the Ministry of Finance exchange rate from exporters of cotton, bananas, meat, tobacco, and tex- tiles, for up to 80 per cent of the value of exports, upon presentation of the export registration. Within four months the exporter then had to provide evidence of customs clearance and shipment and supply the re- maining 20 per cent of the exchange proceeds, in order to qualify for the exchange differential between the 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA M in is try of Finance exchange rate and the certificate rate prevailing four mon ths after the initial exchange sale (or at the conclusion of the export operation, if the la t ter is consummated before that date —ajuste cambi- ario). December 20. Monetary Board Resolution No. 87 limited access to PROEXPO'S rediscount fac i l i ty (see Monetary Board Resolution No. 70 of October 16, above) to the working capital and investment capital needs of enterprises producing, storing, or selling ex- port products other than cotton, sugar, bananas, coffee, meat, tobacco, or petroleum and its derivatives. PRO- EXPO was authorized to discount with the Bank of the Republic irrevocable letters of credit of up to 180 days' ma tu r i ty which had been endorsed by a foreign bank of prime standing; for capital goods, the ma tu r i ty could exceed 180 days. The following changes took place on January 1, 1975: January 1. Presidential Decree No. 2374 of Oc- tober 31, 1974 came into effect (see above). The tax on the exchange proceeds from coffee was reduced from 20 per cent to 19 per cent. January 1. Presidential Decree No. 2004 of Septem- ber 24, 1974 came in to effect (see above). The tax credit certificate rates for exports were reduced. January 1. Ministry of Finance Decree No. 2086 of September 30, 1974 came into effect (see above). January L Monetary Board Resolution No. 81 of December 11, 1974 came into effect (see above). NOTES 1 In view of certain changes that took place on January 1, 1975, this survey presents the position on that date. 2 The term reimbursable imports generally covers imports financed from Colombia's own foreign exchange reserves or financed w i th foreign credit; they include imports under bilat- eral payments agreements. Nonreimbursable imports consist ma in ly of aid imports under grants, commodities constituting part of a direct investment, and goods financed by certain types of long-term loans. 3 W i th effect f rom February 1, 1975 the export controls were modified and liberalized by INCOMEX Resolution No. 003 of Janua ry 21, 1975. 4 This term may be extended by another 60 days. 5 Suppliers' credits of a once-for-all na ture do not require registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license covering the relevant import transaction. Such repay- men t, however, is subject to the 100 per cent advance pay- men ts deposit. In addition, such credits are subject to an interest rate ceiling of 1V2 per cent over the New York prime rate or the London in terbank rate. 6 At the end of 1974, the registration of certain foreign inves tmen ts and of old contracts invo lv ing payment of royal- ties, commissions, etc., had not yet been completed. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the People's Repub- lic of the Congo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, 1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the intervention currency, between the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. Payments to the following countries, although sub- ject to declaration, are unrestricted: (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Mo- naco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Ac- count (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Settlements and investment transactions with all foreign countries, however, are subject to control. Foreign countries are defined as all countries outside the People's Republic of the Congo. Payments to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries (as well as the pur- chase of their banknotes and travelers checks) are sub- ject to a commission of 1 per cent, subject to a minimum of CFAF 100; exempt are payments of the State, the Postal Administration, and the BEAC, the salaries of Congolese diplomats abroad, the expendi- tures of official missions abroad, and the scholarships of persons studying or training abroad. Most payments to other foreign countries and credits to Foreign Ac- counts in Francs are subject to a commission of 1 per cent or, for foreign exchange purchased by Diamond Purchase Offices, 0.50 per cent; this commission also is subject to a minimum of CFAF 100. Administration of Control The Office of External Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance who has delegated his approval authority to the Office of External Financial Relations and the authorized banks. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of External Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency The People's Republic of the Congo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the Peo- ple's Republic of China are made through special ac- counts established under a bilateral payments agreement. 2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All payments to Portugal require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Finance. All settlements be- tween Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting of BEAC banknotes to Foreign Accounts in Francs is permitted when they have been mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Brazzaville by the foreign correspon- dents of authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources require prior authorization. For imports of v ir tua l ly all commodities from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France such authorization is given freely. All imports of Portuguese or Rhodesian origin are pro- hibited. Imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accor- dance w i th an annual import program; the program, also includes indicative quotas for a few commodities from EEC countries other than France. This program is determined by a joint French-Congolese Committee. The import program does not include petroleum im- ports, for which a joint quota is set for the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). Also outside the program are imports for the Goverment under foreign aid and bilateral pay- ments agreements and imports made by the Office Na- tional du Commerce (OFNACOM). The quotas for non-EEC countries may be used to import goods origi- nating in any country outside the French Franc Area. Licenses for liberalized commodities originating in EEC countries other than France are issued automati- cally. Imports from non-UDEAC countries of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a certain quantity of the local product (jumelage). 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO OFNACOM has a monopoly over certain imports, in- cluding hardware, rice, and salted fish from all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles from the People's Republic of China. All import transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Oper- ations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and that of the Office of External Financial Relations. The approved import license enti- tles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, pro- vided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely provided they have been declared and are made through an au- thorized intermediary; those to other foreign countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are per- mitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of prof- its, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resi- dent tourists traveling to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, Operations Ac- count countries of the French Franc Area, or Zaire may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Congo in excess of CFAF 5,000 must be surrendered. For business travel to such foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Additional amounts of foreign exchange for business travel may be authorized in ap- propriate cases. The use of credit cards abroad by resi- dents is prohibited. There are special facilities for travelers to Kinshasa who request no foreign means of payment other than Zai'rian banknotes. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents traveling to France (as defined above), Monaco, or an Operations Account country may take out CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes. Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, Operations Account countries, or Zaire may freely take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes 134 issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; among the exceptions are commodities exported by the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office Na- tional de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles, or ONCPA) or other state enterprises having an export monopoly. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export transactions relating to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of foreign countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected when due and surrendered within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue main- taining an Operations Account with the French Trea- sury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital All capital movements between Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Movements of funds between Congo and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Op- erations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free, although subject to declaration; most invest- ment operations and borrowing and lending between Congo and these countries are subject to authorization. Capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries generally are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, and offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior ap- proval of the Minister of Finance; the full or partial ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister. Foreign direct investments in the Congo 4 require the prior approval by the Minister of Finance, unless they involve the creation of a mixed economy enterprise. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Congo must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Congo, must be re- ported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Congo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) borrow- ing backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Govern- ment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Congo has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment in Congo for which prior approval has been obtained as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 10 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents is subject to exchange control, and all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents is prohibited unless special authorization is obtained. In addition, lending to nonresidents re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authori- zation: (1) loans in foreign currencies granted by regis- tered banks; (2) other loans in foreign currencies when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed the equivalent of CFAF 5 million for any one lender; and (3) foreign currency loans whose interest rate does not exceed 5 per cent a year and whose matu- rity is two years or less. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of External Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Under the Investment Code of April 26, 1973 (Ordi- nance No. 11/73), a number of privileges may be granted to approved foreign investments. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold in Congo, gold in the form of PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO coins, art objects, or jewelry, but they require the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form, from or to any other country. Exempt from the latter requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BEAC and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a mi- nor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. There are no official exports of gold. Changes during 1974 January 1. New cooperation agreements were signed with France. January 13. A law was enacted providing for the nationalization of certain distributors of petroleum products. January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies within predetermined margins. A joint decision to this effect was taken on February 1 by the Ministers of Finance of the member countries of the BEAC. January 23. Order No. 292 required residents to col- lect and —where payment was made in foreign ex- change —to surrender all proceeds from claims subject to repatriation requirements within one month of the due date. For exports, this date normally could not be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. January 23. Circular No. 12 revised the regulations regarding forward sales and purchases of foreign cur- rency by residents. Forward purchases were permitted only for import transactions for a maximum of three months. January 23. Circular No. 13 prohibited all lending in CFA francs to nonresidents, unless specifically autho- rized by the Office of External Financial Relations. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in the People's Republic of the Congo also ceased to operate. The financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and set- tlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official ex- change market and through Foreign Accounts in Francs. The relevant exchange control regulations were not issued in Congo. April 12. Order No. 1847 required prior authoriza- tion for all imports from the French Franc Area. April 15. Notice to Importers No. 545 of March 28 made all imports from and exports to the French Franc Area subject to prior authorization. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO NOTES 1 The CFA franc circulating in the People's Republic of the Congo is issued by the Banque des Etats de I'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with Bui- garia, North Korea, and Mali. 3 inciucjing those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo. 4 Including those involving the cession between nonresi- dents of a participation in the capital of a Congolese com- pany. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0859580 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colon. The Central Bank of Costa Rica buys and sells exchange in the official market at fixed rates of (2 8.54 and 0 8.60, respectively, per US$1. Transactions with member countries of the Central American Common Market (CACM), when settled through the Camara de Compensacion Cen- troamericana (a clearinghouse established by the cen- tral banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries) are effected at a uniform buying and selling rate of 0 8.57 per US$1. As a transitional measure, certain exchange transac- tions continue to take place at the pre-April 1974 offi- cial market buying and selling rates of 0 6.62 and (2 6.68 per US$1; these include certain student remit- tances, and the servicing of debts existing on April 25, 1974 of commercial banks. The Central Bank stands ready in principle to buy U.S. dollars forward at 90 days, at 0 8.39055 per US$1. Costa Rica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control The exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank. No licenses are required to buy or sell foreign exchange that is not subject to mandatory sale to the banking system. Purchases and sales of official market exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commercial banks acting as its agents. Li- censed exchange houses are permitted to deal in travel exchange and other exchange that is not subject to surrender requirements. Commercial banks deal in this market only as agents of the Central Bank, for its ac- count and at its risk. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Payments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts es- tablished under a payments agreement with that coun- try. 'Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and trade-related invisibles must be made in Costa Rican colones through the Camara de Compensacion Cen- troamericana; the documents must be expressed in co- lones and require approval by the Central Bank. The central banks of these four countries may also convert Costa Rican notes and coins, up to the equivalent of US$10,000 a month for Nicaragua and up to the equiv- alent of US$5,000 a month for each of the other countries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles must also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clearinghouse, in accordance with the Agreement on Clearing and Reciprocal Credits be- tween the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearinghouse; the documents must be expressed in co- lones and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no special arrangements with Mexico for the conversion of Costa Rican notes and coins. Imports and Import Payments There is no import licensing and all import payments may be made freely,1 subject to submission of docu- mentary evidence (see below). However, certain im- ports from CACM countries require prior authorization, and imports made on a barter basis re- quire a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce. Im- ports from South Africa are prohibited in principle. To be eligible for foreign exchange, imports must be registered with the Central Bank within 60 days of arrival at a national port. This registration serves as an application for official exchange. In principle, the Cen- tral Bank grants authorization to purchase foreign ex- change at the time of registration (but see note 1). In addition to any applicable customs duty, there are levied on imports (1) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs duty on commodities not covered by the com- mon external tariff of the CACM; (2) a sales tax of 8 per cent ad valorem, from which certain essential items are exempt; and (3) a selective consumption tax with a range of 10-50 per cent ad valorem on imports from outside the CACM and at lower rates on CACM im- ports.2 There also exists a small consular tax on certain imports. Furthermore, most imports originating out- side the CACM are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for Invisibles The Central Bank has delegated to its agent banks the power to sell exchange up to the equivalent of US$300 a remittance for many current invisibles, sub- ject to submission of evidence as to purpose by the applicant. Sales of exchange for higher amounts must be approved by the Central Bank. The delegated au- thority for private travel is for US$1,000 a person a trip; the Central Bank generally approves additional amounts of US$75 a person a day, up to a total addi- tional amount of US$3,000 a person a trip. Taxes of 15 per cent and 10 per cent, respectively, are levied on remittances abroad of dividends and interest; interest on certain borrowing abroad (e.g., from government banks) is exempt. Residents traveling abroad by air must pay a travel tax of 5 per cent of the value of the tickets plus 0 20 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA a trip; government officials, diplomats, minors, and students are exempt. missions received by agents and representatives of for- eign firms. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to ensure that exchange proceeds are surrendered as prescribed. Sur- render must take place by sale to the Central Bank or an agent bank. Nontraditional exports are entitled to tax credit certificates (CATs) corresponding to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which are freely negotiable. Licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the exportation of merchandise. In addition to the export license from the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: strategic materials, such as arma- ments, munitions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals (from the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce); sugar (from the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce, so that shipments under the sugar quotas may be controlled); lumber and root of ipecacuanha (from the Institute for Lands and Coloni- zation); beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle (from the National Council of Production); airplanes (from the Civil Aviation Board); Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay (from the National Museum); tobacco (from the To- bacco Defense Board); certain livestock and animals and plants of forest origin (from the Ministry of Agri- culture and Livestock); and coffee (from the Coffee Office); in addition, when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. Ex- ports to South Africa are prohibited in principle. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surren- dered within 15 days of receipt or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds, which are calculated by deducting from their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained during the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) the al- lowance for depreciation on their investment in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in for- eign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on most tradi- tional and nontraditional exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered at the official rate within 15 days of accrual, with the exception of the following, which may be retained and used as "free market exchange": diplomatic and similar salaries and expenses; tourist expenditure; fam- ily remittances and other personal remittances; and set- tlements on insurance claims, provided that the premium was paid through the free market; and com- 138 Capital Inward transfers of capital may be made freely by residents and nonresidents. The Charter of the Central Bank provides that foreign capital entering through the official market may be registered with the Central Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the transfer of interest, profits, and amortization. Private outflows of foreign capital may be effected through the official market only if so registered. Incoming capital may be sold freely to licensed exchange houses (or re- tained by the recipient) if it is foreign capital that did not elect registration and surrender at the official rate or if it is national capital returning from abroad. Agent banks have authority to sell foreign exchange at the official rate for repayments on certain private and pub- lic debts and certain amortization on registered foreign capital. Registration is mandatory only for public sec- tor borrowing abroad and for government-guaranteed borrowing abroad. Foreign and domestic capital trans- ferred from abroad may freely be deposited as time deposits with agent banks in the form of specified for- eign currencies3 or be invested in certificates of deposit denominated in colones; such funds may be retrans- ferred abroad upon maturity at the official exchange rate. Outward transfers of national capital are restricted. Agent banks are empowered to sell to any physical or juridical person foreign exchange up to US$300 a re- mittance, provided the purpose is indicated, for dona- tions or gifts. They also have authority to sell exchange for certain investment operations approved by the Min- istry of Economy, Indus try, and Commerce as well as the Central Bank. All other outward transfers of na- tional capital require prior authorization by the Central Bank; it does not authorize these where there is no actual obligation abroad, or where, despite the exis- tence of an actual obligation abroad, the Bank con- siders the transfer to be an unauthorized transfer of national capital. Gold The Central Bank may purchase, sell, or hold gold coins or bars as part of the nation's monetary reserves in accordance with regulations established by its own Board. Private physical and juridical persons may ne- gotiate freely, at home or abroad, domestically pro- duced gold (except national archaeological treasures), provided there is no infraction of international agree- ments. They may also hold gold in any form in Costa Rica. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or professional users. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1974 March 13. Payments for imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of certain machinery, trans- port equipment, and capital goods were shifted from the official exchange market to the free market. Hence- forth, the only import payments eligible in principle for settlement entirely at the official rate were those for basic cereals and Pharmaceuticals. April 25. The dual exchange market was unified by the elimination of the free market. The unified exchange rate was the rate previously ruling in the free market. Previously, the official buying and selling rates in the official market had been 0 6.62 and 0 6.68 per US$1. (Certain existing claims and obligations would con- tinue to be settled at the old official rate, as well as export proceeds from the 1973/74 coffee crop. Certain student expenses would also be settled at that rate through the end of the school year.) (Law No. 5519 of April 24, which also amended Article 94 of the Central Bank's Charter). April 25. The par value was changed from 0.134139 gram to 0.0859580 gram of fine gold per colon, corre- sponding to (2 10.3384 per SDR 1. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar became 0 8.57 = US$1, and the official buying and selling rates were set at 0 8.54 and 0 8.60, respectively, per U.S. dollar. April 25. All existing exchange restrictions on pay- ments at the official rate were lifted; prior to unifica- tion, payments through the free market had been unrestricted. April 25. The period within which export proceeds must be surrendered was reduced from 60 days after exportation to 15 days after receipt. April 25. The following were declared exempt from surrender requirements: salaries and similar receipts of members of the diplomatic and consular corps and staff members of international institutions, as well as all receipts from tourism, family remittances, insurance claims (provided the premiums had been settled at the free market rate), inflows of unregistered foreign capital not sold in the official exchange market, and of domes- tically owned capital repatriated from abroad. These exempted receipts would be considered as "free market exchange." Such "free market exchange" could be used freely. April 25. Ad valorem export taxes ranging between 1 per cent and 18 per cent were introduced to eliminate windfall profits on traditional exports. Taxes of 2-7 per cent were levied on nontraditional exports sold mainly within Central America. The tax was 13 per cent for coffee, meat, sugar, and cacao (Decree No. 3719). April 25. Borrowing abroad by the public sector, with the exception of the state banks, became subject to the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. May 3. Decree No. 3761-MEIC prohibited the ex- port of processed hides. (Exports of raw and semiproc- essed hides and skins had been prohibited since September 1972.) COSTA RICA May 23. Decree No. 3802-MEIC made exports of fertilizers subject to authorization by the Director- ate-General of Internal Commerce. May 24. Regulations for the application of the ruling exchange system were published. They provided essen- tially a consolidation of the rules, as amended on April 25, in respect of the surrender of exchange re- ceipts, the exceptions to the surrender requirement, the licensing of exports, and the allocations for invisibles. June 27. Decree No. 3957-MEIC established that the Directorate-General of Internal Commerce could authorize the export of raw, semiprocessed, and pro- cessed hides and skins when domestic needs were satis- fied. July 1. An export tax of US$0.25 a box was imposed on bananas (Decree No. 3923-H, implementing Law No. 5515 of April 19, 1974). August 29. Decree No. 4049-MEIC added to the Ex- port Incentive Law (No. 5162) a chapter concerning exports to countries maintaining quantitative import restrictions. September 30. Additions to the Regulations of May 24 (see above) were published. These included the introduction of restrictions on outflows of resi- dent-owned capital. Article 33 specified the transactions for which agent banks could sell foreign currency, subject to evidence of purpose. These were listed as (1) payment of direct commercial obligations, including freight and insur- ance on imports; (2) servicing of foreign loans (amorti- zation and interest); (3) repatriation of foreign capital and payment of dividends on such capital; (4) export- ers' expenses in respect of advertising and other ser- vices; (5) student expenses and family remittances; (6) expenses of tourism and other travel; (7) remittances in respect of subscriptions, medical expenses, professional services, insurance and reinsurance of the National In- surance Institute, royalties, and gifts; (8) expenditures abroad of the Government and state institutions; (9) investments by Costa Rican enterprises in Central America, provided they were approved by the Ministry of Economy, Industry, and Commerce, as well as the Central Bank; (10) majority investments of Costa Ri- can enterprises in subsidiaries of non-Central American companies, provided they were approved by the Minis- try and the Central Bank; and (11) other remittances subject to the judgment of the Central Bank. Article 34 provided that any physical or juridical person could freely purchase foreign exchange up to US$300, subject to a declaration for statistical pur- poses as to the purpose of the remittance. For the pur- poses listed in Article 33, higher amounts could be obtained if the remitter gave satisfatory evidence to the Central Bank as to the use of the foreign exchange. Travelers could obtain up to US$1,000 subject to pre- sentation of passport and travel ticket; they could also obtain higher amounts, subject to the submission to the Central Bank of evidence regarding the length of their stay abroad. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Article 35 provided that the Central Bank would authorize the sale of foreign exchange for all payments abroad, except for transfers of capital without actual obligation abroad or where, although there was an ac- tual obligation abroad, the Central Bank considered the transfer to be an unjustified transfer of national capital. These additions to the Regulations came into effect on October 1. For private travel, the Central Bank generally made available, in addition to the basic quota of US$1,000 a person a trip that agent banks could sell, an amount of US$75 for each day in excess of ten days, up to a total additional amount of US$3,000 a person a trip. October 1. Various measures to stimulate capital in- flows came into force. Nonresidents' time deposits in deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars would earn interest at 8-11 per cent, depending on maturity. The interest rate on resi- dent and nonresident-held savings deposits denomi- nated in U.S. dollars was increased to 3 per cent and that on certificates of deposit denominated in colones to 14 per cent. Banks were exempted from reserve re- quirements on deposits originating abroad. October 15. The Central Bank directed that payments for imports originating in other CACM countries must be effected exclusively by checks denominated in colo- nes and certified by agent banks, for settlement through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana. November 8. The Central Bank issued regulations regarding installment and credit sales of goods and services. Minimum downpayments and maximum credit terms were prescribed for specified goods and services (31 items, 11 of which were subdivided into two groups, domestically produced and imported). They included automobiles, refrigerators, radios, televi- sion receivers, washing machines and dryers, motorcy- cles, and travel passages. For domestically produced goods the minimum down payment ranged from 10 per cent to 40 per cent and the maximum payments term was 24 months, while imported goods had to be fully paid in cash. Imported goods and services covered by free trade treaties would be treated in the same manner as goods of national origin. It was subsequently de- cided that these regulations would come into force on March 1, 1975. December 3. Transitional regulations for installment and credit sales of goods and services were issued, for the period until March 1, 1975, when the regulations of November 8 would come into force. Minimum down- payment terms and maximum credit terms were set for 29 commodity groups, without distinction between do- mestically produced and imported goods. Maximum downpayment terms of 40 per cent were prescribed for automobiles, boats, motorcycles, electric equipment, and certain other goods (mainly imported goods). December 23. It was announced that with effect from January 15, 1975 a system of prior import registration would be established; such registration would be a prerequisite for obtaining foreign exchange for import payments. December 24. Decree No. 4431 lowered the rates of the ad valorem export taxes established by Decree No. 3719, except for cocoa and sugar. For coffee the tax was reduced to 5 per cent and for all other commod- ities to 1 per cent. December 25. The sales tax was increased from 5 per cent to 8 per cent ad valorem. NOTES 1 With effect from January 15, 1975 all import orders in excess of US$300 became subject to prior registration with the Central Bank upon confirmation by the foreign supplier. Evidence of registration had to be submitted before import payments could be made. 2 With effect from January 7, 1975 the rates of consump- tion tax were raised for many goods, and its application was extended to additional items. 3 Deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cy- prus Pound. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par value. Since July 9, 1973, the rate for the Cyprus pound has been adjusted daily with the aim of maintaining its effective relationship with the curren- cies of the main trading partners of Cyprus. The Cen- tral Bank of Cyprus quotes daily buying and selling rates for deutsche mark, Greek drachmas, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 was US$2.7980 buying, and US$2.7950 selling, per £C 1, and that for sterling was £ stg. 1.1950 buying, and £ stg. 1.1900 selling, per £C 1. The Central Bank quotes indicative rates for a number of other currencies as well. Furthermore, the Central Bank offers authorized dealers facilities for for- ward purchases and sales of U.S. dollars and pounds sterling for periods of up to six months, in cover of trade transactions only. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank and trade controls by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applica- tions for the allocation of foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank has been delegated to the authorized dealers. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Mar- keting Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Prescription of Currency Cyprus has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements with clearing countries1 must be made through the appropriate clearing account denominated either in pounds sterling or in U.S. dol- lars. Payments to countries other than the clearing countries (except Rhodesia) may be made by crediting Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any for- eign currency other than Rhodesian currency; the pro- ceeds of exports to such countries may be received in Cyprus pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Settle- ments with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of countries outside Cyprus other than Rhodesia may maintain with authorized banks nonresi- dent accounts in Cyprus pounds, designated External Accounts, or foreign currency deposit accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from resi- dents of Cyprus, with transfers from other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonresidents of any foreign cur- rency2 other than Rhodesian currency. External Ac- counts and foreign currency accounts may be debited for payments to residents and nonresidents, for trans- fers to other External Accounts or foreign currency accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency; however, the delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency ac- counts is prohibited, with the exception of sales for travel purposes to nonresident individuals, to members of foreign embassies, and to members of the United Nations forces in Cyprus (up to the equivalent of £C 50 a trip). Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhode- sia and are subject to separate rules. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or credited to an Exter- nal Account without prior reference to the Central Bank. Funds can be released from Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances: On application by the au- thorized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonres- ident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for (1) reasonable educa- tional expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's chil- dren; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and (3) donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under (1), (2), and (3), amounts up to a level determined from time to time may become eligible for release. At present, the Central Bank is prepared to permit the release to each nonresident holder of blocked funds up to £C 1,000 in any calendar year. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of virtually all commodities may be made freely from any other country except Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslova- kia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS No r th Korea, Poland, Romania, Tibet, the U.S.S.R., and No r th V ie t-Nam. For protective reasons, certain goods (such as some agr icu l tural and tex t i le products, footwear, metal manufactures, and industrial machin- ery) may not be impor ted f ree ly; for a few of these items, no licenses are gran ted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Impo r ts f rom Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Poland, Ro- mania, and the U.S.S.R. are licensed in accordance w i th the terms of bilateral trade and paymen ts agreements. W i th respect to Albania, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Ti- bet, and No r th Viet-Nam, no formal t rad ing arrange- men ts exist but certain barter transactions take place from t ime to time. Ind iv idual import licenses are not required for bona f ide unsolicited g i f ts (which may not be sold) up to £C 10 in value, for re turned goods, or for certain spe- cial import transactions. Paymen ts for all permitted impor ts may be made free ly a f ter arrival (where documents are received on a collection basis) or a f ter receipt of shipping documents (where payment is made under a documentary credit). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Prof i ts, dividends, and interest from approved foreign invest- ments may be transferred abroad, a f ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to for- eign insurance companies are remittable af ter deduc- tion of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Maintenance remittances are allowed on appli- cation accompanied by documentary evidence of hard- ship. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed, only for the purpose of preventing illicit capi- tal ou tf low. For study abroad, the lower limit is £C 700 a year, and the upper limit is £C 2,200 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of l iv ing in the coun t ry concerned —e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East (defined as Egypt, Greece, Israel, Leba- non, and Turkey), £C 700; in the United States and Canada, £C 2,200; in other countries, £C 1,400. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on presentation of documentary evidence. However, allowances are granted only for study at universities or comparable institutions. For tourist travel, the limit is £C 150 a person annua l ly; for business travel £C 20 to £C 40 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allow- ance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to £C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of £C 50, the latter as part of their annual basic travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out £C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought in to Cy- prus. 142 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to control by the Cyprus Grain Commis- sion. All exports are subject to licensing when the f.o.b. value exceeds £C 75 to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above). Export proceeds in all currencies must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in all currencies must be sold to an authorized bank within one mon th of receipt. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and up to £C 10 in Cyprus cur- rency notes. Capital Exchange control is exercised over all capital receipts or payments. Capital receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer; payments of a capital nature to any destination require prior approval. Outward port- folio investment is not normally permitted, and only specified types of ou tward direct investment (e.g., for export promotion) are approved. Foreign investments in Cyprus by nonresidents re- quire the prior approval of the exchange control au- thorities. In considering applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of per- sons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up resi- dence outside Cyprus, and Cypriots who emigrate, may transfer abroad up to £C 1,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. The transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and of the sales proceeds of real estate also is limited to £C 1,000, w i th any excess amount to be credited to a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. In princi- ple, all securities held abroad by residents are subject to registration. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold only for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1974 January 15. Authorized banks were permitted to open foreign currency deposit accounts in the name of nonresidents, provided that such deposits were for a period exceeding one month. For the opening of foreign currency accounts for shorter periods, the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank was required. Foreign cur- rency accounts could be operated in the same manner as External Accounts. July 12. Import duties on a number of items, includ- ing certain luxury consumer goods, were increased. August 24. The annual basic exchange allowance for tourist travel was reduced from £C 350 to £C 150 a person for the rest of 1974; any amount in excess of £C 200 already granted was deducted from the new limit of £C 150. Henceforth, the allowance could only be granted to persons submitting a valid travel ticket (in addition to a passport and, where prescribed, an exit permit). August 26. Foreign exchange allowances for educa- tion abroad henceforth were granted only for study at universities or comparable institutions. Also, they could no longer be provided prior to the production of documentary evidence of enrollment. August 26. A limit of £C 1,000 for each transaction was placed on the transfer abroad of funds resulting from estates and intestacies and of the sale proceeds of real estate. The emigration allowance was reduced from £C 10,000 to £C 1,000 for both Cypriots and repatri- ating foreign nationals. Releases of funds from Blocked Accounts were reduced from £C 5,000 to £C 1,000 for each account holder during a calendar year. August 26. The enforcement of the exchange control regulations was tightened by a more careful screening of applications for foreign exchange for business travel and for medical treatment abroad. August 26. Until fur ther notice, the Central Bank was prepared to allow acceptance of drafts and payments for imports beyond the period of 180 days previously in force. CYPRUS August 27. The import of Cyprus currency notes was prohibited, with the exception that travelers to Cyprus were allowed to bring in on their person or in their baggage up to £C 10; previously, the import of domes- tic currency by travelers was unrestricted. The Central Bank announced that it was prepared to consider appli- cations for the import of, and payment in external funds for, reasonable quantities of Cyprus currency notes already purchased by foreign financial institu- tions from bona fide travelers. August 28. New procedures for payments for imports were introduced on a temporary basis. They were in- tended to ensure that goods paid for were actually imported. September 17. The delivery of foreign currency notes to nonresidents in Cyprus against External Accounts or foreign currency accounts by authorized dealers was prohibited. However, authorized dealers were allowed to sell foreign currency notes against External Ac- counts or foreign currency accounts to nonresident in- dividuals, to members of foreign embassies, and to members of the United Nations forces in Cyprus, for travel purposes only, up to the equivalent of £C 50 a person a trip. The selling of foreign notes to foreign embassies required individual Central Bank approval. October 3. Authorized dealers had to refer to the Central Bank all cancellations by foreign remitters or issuers of transfers or negotiable instruments in favor of persons in Cyprus. They were reminded that the beneficiaries of foreign remittances and the holders of negotiable instruments expressed either in foreign cur- rency or in local currency with reimbursement in exter- nal funds could not, except with special permission, cancel, return, agree to the cancellation or return of the amount involved, or otherwise export such foreign ne- gotiable instruments. October 10. Transactions in foreign exchange could no longer take place directly between authorized deal- ers but were required to be channeled through the Cen- tral Bank. NOTES 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than Cyprus pounds. 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, be- tween the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of YIO of 1 per mill for transfers within the West African Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the Union. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Daho- mey's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Dahomey it- self, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are sub- ject to exchange control. For purposes of certain capi- tal controls, however, the countries specified in this paragraph are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Director- ate-General of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism, which also super- vises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or of- fering for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey, inward direct investment, all investment in foreign countries, and the solicitation of funds in Dahomey for placement in foreign countries. The Ministry of Finance, however, has the main responsibility for drawing up the ex- change control regulations. The BCEAO is authorized to collect (either direct or through the intermediary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administra- tion, and notaries public) any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All ex- change transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Eco- 144 nomic Affairs in the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism. Exports of diamonds and other precious or semiprecious materials require prior approval granted by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers. There are three special offices for the import and export of precious metals and precious mineral materials, but these are inoperative. Import certificates for liberalized commodities originating in OECD countries other than Japan are made out by the importer himself and ap- proved by the Directorate-General of Economic Af- fairs. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settle- ments with the People's Republic of China and Ghana, however, are made through special accounts. 2 All set- tlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Co- tonou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents for credit to the Foreign Accounts in Francs opened for the latter by authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. Certain im- ports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources. The Societe de Commercialisation et de Credit Agricole du Dahomey (SOCAD) has a monopoly over the importation of sugar, rice, wheat, wheat flour, and condensed milk. Imports of all other goods originating in countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely without an import license. Imports of all other goods originating in EEC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are lib- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution eralized when originating in OECD countries other than Japan and only require an import certificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities originating in OECD countries, all im- ports originating in Japan, and all imports originating in non-OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import pro- gram, which is determined each year in a French-Daho- mean Committee, in which both countries have equal status, as provided for by the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France. (The Committee held no meet- ings in 1973 and 1974.) Under this program, a global quota is established for imports from all countries out- side the French Franc Area except EEC countries. Cer- tain French textiles processed in foreign countries are licensed separately. All imports originating in foreign countries, when valued at more than CFAF 500,000, must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before ship- ment if a documentary credit is opened or one month before the payment is due if the commodities have al- ready been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the ap- proval of the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs, but for many types of invisibles the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been em- powered to make payments abroad freely on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a trip for each person (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 remaining after return to Dahomey must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Dahomey is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. DAHOMEY Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Op- erations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry subject to adjustment for amounts exchanged for CFA francs or obtained by exchange of foreign currency. Nonresident travelers may take out freely the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by the Operations Account countries; the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes; and any amount in other foreign means of payment (travelers checks, etc.) established abroad in their names. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Exports to all countries are free of license, except those of gold and diamonds, but require an export application visaed by the Director- ate-General of Economic Affairs. The due date for pay- ments for exports to foreign countries cannot be later than 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected and, if the contract is denominated in a non-Franc Area currency, sold on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. Prior authorization is required for the holding, sale, import, export, or trading of raw diamonds and of precious and semiprecious materials; this authorization is granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers acting on the proposal of the Min- ister of Mines after a technical commission has given its opinion. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area may be re- tained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; resident travelers must declare to the customs and within eight days of return surrender to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes and for- 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY eign currency travelers checks in excess of CFAF 5,000 they bring in. Capital Transfers of capital between Dahomey and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Dahomey and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capi- tal receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward foreign direct in- vestment and all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Spe- cial controls are maintained also over imports and ex- ports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or investment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Dahomey require prior authorization by the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism.3 Foreign direct investments in Dahomey 4 must be declared to the Minister before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submit- ted to him. The full or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declaration. Both the mak- ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Dahomean investments abroad or foreign invest- ments in Dahomey, must be reported to the Minister and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each oper- ation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere par- ticipation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock ex- change. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Dahomey requires prior authorization by the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Dahomean Government, and (2) shares that are 146 similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Dahomey has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Industry, Com- merce, and Tourism. The following are, however, ex- empt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indus- trial firms to finance operations abroad, by international merchanting firms (approved by the Min- ister of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism) to finance transit trade, or by any type of firm to finance imports and exports; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) subject to certain conditions, loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one bor- rower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special au- thorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authori- zation by the Minister of Industry, Commerce, and Tourism. The Investment Code (Ordinance No. 72-1 of Janu- ary 8, 1972) provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in in- dustry, mining, fisheries, agriculture, and tourism, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Four preferential regimes are es- tablished. Plan A is intended for medium-sized invest- ments and provides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed product, and from certain other taxation. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a maximum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, certain other tax privileges. Plan Cis intended for en- terprises undertaking to invest more than CFAF 500 million and is granted for a period of up to 15 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan B, Plan C guarantees stability of tax status, free choice of suppliers, and cer- tain other advantages. Plan D provides certain benefits for Dahomean entrepreneurs investing at least CFAF 10 million. The method of application of the Investment Code is set out in Decree No. 72-7 of Janu- ary 17, 1972. Gold Prior authorization granted by a decree issued by the Council of Ministers, acting on the advice of the Minis- ter of Mines, is required to hold, sell, import, export, or deal in, raw diamonds and precious or semiprecious materials. In practice, residents are free to hold, ac- quire, and dispose of gold in any form in Dahomey. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other coun- try require prior authorization by the Minister of In- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dustry, Commerce, and Tourism, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured arti- cles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be determined by an Order of the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies within predetermined margins. An official deci- sion to this effect was taken by the Council of the West African Monetary Union on January 24. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Dahomey also ceased to operate. The financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official exchange market and through For- eign Accounts in Francs. The relevant exchange con- trol regulations were issued in Dahomey on April 8 and June 6. April 8. Order No. 2867MEF revoked order No. DAHOMEY 28 /MEF /DGAE of June 21, 1972. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies (spot or forward) and all payments between Dahomey and foreign countries or between a resident and a nonresident henceforth had to be made through the official exchange market. April 8. Circular No. 39 substituted in Circular No. 15 of January 20, 1969 (and in all related circu- lars) the term "official exchange market" for "financial franc market," and the term "Foreign Account in Francs" for "Financial Account in Francs." April. The Government took over the importation of hydrocarbons. June 6. Circular No. 914 modified Circular No. 15 of January 20, 1969 concerning nonresident accounts in francs and foreign securities dossiers in light of the abolition of the dual exchange market. December 5. It was announced that the State was taking full or partial control of certain economic sec- tors; these were banking, transportation, and the distri- bution of petroleum products. NOTES 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cur- rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with Egypt, the German Democratic Republic, and Hungary. The agree- ment with the German Democratic Republic has never been ratified. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Dahomey and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Dahomey. 4 Including those made by companies in Dahomey that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of foreign companies. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone. The central rate is DKr 6.28205 = US$1, and Denmark avails itself of wider margins. Denmark maintains a maximum margin of 2Y4 per cent for rates in spot exchange transactions in the official exchange market between the Danish krone and the Belgian franc, the deutsche mark, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona. No announced margins are maintained for any other currency. Market rates are quoted daily for the 16 currencies that are used most often.1 On December 31, 1974, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were DKr 5.6460 and DKr 5.6540, respectively, per US$1. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbi- trage both spot and forward for up to 12 months with one another and with their foreign correspondents in all currencies, including Danish kroner. Special rules ap- ply, however, for the forward sale of foreign currencies against Danish kroner to foreign correspondents. For- ward premiums and discounts are generally left to the interplay of market forces, but the central bank has from time to time sold U.S. dollars forward to autho- rized banks. Forward transactions with residents must cover contractual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the pay- ments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the forward contract. Denmark formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange con- trol authority. However, administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the au- thorized exchange dealers, i.e., most banks and some of the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange.2 The exchange regula- tions generally do not apply to individual transactions and transfers of DKr 3,000 or less. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Li- censes for imports and exports, when required, are is- sued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. 148 Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. Virtually all payments in favor of residents of Rhodesia, how- ever, must be credited to a South Rhodesian Account. Pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (1968), restrictions for security reasons are applied to virtually all payments and transfers to, or for the bene- fit of, Rhodesia, and to certain receipts from Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Emigrant Accounts and South Rhodesian Accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping companies, and for specified official institutions of the EEC. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, including persons who are or have been of Danish na- tionality, provided that the credit balance in any one account does not exceed DKr 75,000; any amounts in excess of DKr 75,000 must be transferred abroad within two days. Special accounts not subject to a max- imum balance may be opened for nonresidents pro- vided they are only credited with the liquidation proceeds or capital earnings from investments in Den- mark and some other funds. Emigrant Accounts are kept by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income from capital, pen- sions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person at the time of departure. Certain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts and the balances are in any case made convertible one year after departure. South Rhodesian Accounts are kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accounts are inconvertible. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities are liberalized and free of licens- ing from all sources. The only commodities that require a license when originating in or purchased from mem- ber countries of the EEC are a few agricultural prod- ucts and unwrought and semimanufactured gold. A few items require a license when originating in Japan, the Republic of Korea, or any other non-state-trading, non-EEC country. A larger number of items require a license when originating in or purchased from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, Poland, Romania, or the U.S.S.R. Special licensing provisions are in force for most items originating in or purchased from the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, North Korea, Mongo- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lia, or North Viet-Nam. No licenses are granted for the importation of goods originating in or purchased in Rhodesia. With these exceptions, imports are free of license, provided that for Japan, the Republic of Korea, and the state trading countries the country of origin and the country of purchase are identical. The transfer of funds to, or for the benefit of, Rhode- sia is prohibited. With this exception, payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within five years from the end of the month in which the goods were cleared through customs, pro- vided that with regard to the term the payments are in conformity with normal commercial practice for the line of business concerned. Repayments of debts must not be made more than 30 days before the day stipu- lated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade). However, commercial credits can be repaid at any time if any discount is obtained as a result, provided the payment is made to the supplier and conforms to normal commercial prac- tice in the trade concerned. Prepayments linked to trade in goods and services that are in conformity with normal commercial practice for the particular line of business, may be granted to nonresidents up to one year prior to the expected date of import or the expected date of performance of the service; the permitted period is up to five years for capital goods (ships, aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installations) when pur- chased for an amount of DKr 1 million or more. All other advance payments for imports require prior ap- proval by the National Bank. Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized ex- change dealers the authority to permit payments by residents, including foreign nationals temporarily working in Denmark, for most invisibles to be made freely, provided that payments of debts are not made more than 30 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest customary date in the trade); only in a few cases is approval from the National Bank required. Authorized banks are em- powered to allow the transfer up to DKr 40,000 a per- son a year of foreign nationals' wages and salaries earned in Denmark, provided that the person con- cerned has not resided in Denmark for more than three years and the transfer is made to the remitter's own account abroad. Transfers of up to DKr 3,000 for any permitted purpose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than 30 days before the trip if the amount ap- plied for exceeds the equivalent of DKr 3,000. All transactions not included in a list of current transac- tions are considered capital transactions. Payments of any kind to Rhodesia, except payments for pensions, for strictly humanitarian, medical, or edu- DENMARK cational purposes, or for the purchase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 3,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign bank- notes or other means of payment. Nonresidents may in addition export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Den- mark or brought in by them when they entered Den- mark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the excep- tion of products intended for strictly medical purposes, educational material or other equipment for schools and the like, publications, and news material. The only commodities that require a license when exported to member countries of the EEC are gold and waste and scrap of iron and steel. With respect to other destina- tions, except for certain items subject to strategic con- trols, export licenses are required only for waste and scrap of certain metals, crude oil and some oil products, and monetary gold. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within 30 days to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank per- mits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount of Danish bank- notes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Both inward and outward transfers of capital and all borrowing and lending between residents and nonresi- dents are subject to exchange control and may be re- stricted. Licensing practice vis-a-vis residents of member countries of the EEC is based on the rules of the EEC's directives on capital movements, subject to certain transitional arrangements, and licensing prac- tice in respect of residents of the rest of the world (except Rhodesia) as a rule is similar. Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon maturity, or to repur- 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK chase any Danish securities denominated exclusively in Danish kroner as well as the transferor's own bonds irrespective of denomination (provided these bonds are quoted on an authorized stock exchange abroad), to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, branches, and so forth, or to a member of the resident's family, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent direct invest- ments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or provided that the resident fur- nishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months from the sale of foreign securities to a nonresident. No special permission is required for residents to make transfers abroad, within certain limits, in connec- tion with direct investments in most industries (equity capital or loan capital) or with the private acquisition of real estate abroad. The limits are DKr 100,000 a year for each foreign enterprise for direct investments of equity capital, DKr 200,000 for direct investments of loan capital, and DKr 60,000 a person for private acquisition of real estate for noncommercial purposes. Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The private acquisition of real estate in excess of DKr 60,000 nor- mally is approved in accordance with Denmark's obli- gation as a member of the EEC. Loans and credits granted by exporters or banks and made in connection with the sale of goods or services are normally permit- ted for up to five years. Permission from the National Bank is required for most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Portfolio investment abroad is generally not allowed. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person at the time of departure. Funds exceeding these amounts must be credited to an Emigrant Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year after departure, or earlier if the emigrant can show that he has taken up permanent residence abroad with the ap- proval of the relevant foreign authorities. Inward direct investment in the form of equity capi- tal may be made without any special license if the in- vestment concerns industry, trade in goods, handicrafts, the hotel business, travel agencies, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise con- cerned by more than DKr 100,000 in each calendar year. Inward direct investments with loan capital also are exempt from special license within certain limits. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires per- mission from the exchange control authorities, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obliga- tions as a member of the EEC and the OECD. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of 150 Justice; permission is usually granted readily where real estate is to be used for industrial or similar enterprises. The sale to nonresidents (including persons who are or have been Danish nationals) of Danish bonds listed on a stock exchange does not require a special license. Such bonds may be resold to residents. Nonresidents may freely purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange, provided the purchase does not represent a direct investment and is not being made with a view to subsequent direct investment^ in the company concerned; this liberaliza- tion does not apply to certificates of investment compa- nies, etc., whose latest balance sheet shows that more than 10 per cent of their assets are securities other than stock exchange securities. Nonresidents may freely grant credits for up to five years to residents to finance purchases of commodities and services abroad and to finance the granting of cred- its for exports of commodities and services, provided the credit is in conformity with commercial practice in the trade concerned. They may, further, grant loans of up to DKr 20 million a borrower in a calendar year to enterprises in most industries, provided that the matu- rity is at least five years and that the entire proceeds are used only to finance expenditure made within 6 months prior to the date the loan is contracted or to be made within 12 months following that date, for the establish- ment, expansion, or equipment of the borrower's own business and /or industrial premises and for the acquisi- tion of plant, machinery, and transport equipment to be used for its own business and /or industrial activities. Finally, they may grant loans up to DKr 200,000 a borrower in a calendar year to members of the nonresi- dent's family. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad without special per- mission of the National Bank, but their foreign borrow- ing is subject to control by the competent executive department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated persons are permitted freely, irrespec- tive of when and how the original investment was ac- quired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident generally must not be amortized or repaid in full more than 30 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due, or before the customary date in the trade. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individ- ual payments above DKr 3,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval from the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and exports of securities are subject to regu- lations, the details of which are established by the Na- tional Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with the principal exception of bonds denominated wholly or partly in foreign currencies, be sold freely to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be nego- tiated freely between residents, provided that the ex- change control regulations are not circumvented. The net "commercial" foreign position of authorized foreign exchange dealers is subject to limitation. For any individual bank, this position must not be negative, except in accordance with the following. For all banks collectively, a quota has been set (DKr 400 million for 1975) up to which they may incur a negative net "com- mercial" foreign position, insofar as this results from the taking up of foreign currency loans and credits for purposes of on-lending in foreign currency to custom- ers in order to finance Danish foreign trade. The largest exchange dealers have been allocated subquotas, and for the others there is a residual subquota. A positive net "commercial" foreign position is in principle al- lowed only as long as it does not exceed the higher of the following amounts— DKr 2 million or 15 per cent of the capital and reserves of the individual bank con- cerned. The National Bank has granted a number of exemptions from this rule. Bank advances to customers financed by foreign credit taken up under these quota arrangements are exempt from the credit ceiling to which the bank concerned is subject. Such advances to customers must be used only for purposes permitted by the exchange control regulations. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins in Denmark; they may also import gold coins from most countries. Otherwise, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to acquire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold normally require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Im- ports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are subject to value- added tax at a rate of 15 per cent but not to customs duty. Domestic transactions also are taxed at a rate of 15 per cent. Changes during 1974 January 1. The bilateral payments arrangement with the German Democratic Republic was discontinued DENMARK and all payments between Denmark and the German Democratic Republic henceforth took place in convert- ible currencies. The special East German Krone Ac- counts were redesignated convertible Krone Accounts. At the same time a comprehensive and reciprocal liber- alization of trade between Denmark and the German Democratic Republic came into effect. January 1. Acting in concert with the central banks of the other EEC member countries, the National Bank eased the rules governing demand and time deposits on convertible Krone Accounts held by specified financial institutions of the EEC, as well as the rules concerning their investments in listed Danish krone bonds. January 1. The rules governing the net "commercial" foreign position of authorized foreign exchange dealers were continued unchanged. All banks collectively could incur a negative net "commercial" foreign posi- tion up to DKr 250 million, subject to the rules intro- duced on January 1, 1973. The quota for 1974 was divided into subquotas for the 26 largest exchange deal- ers and a residual quota of DKr 9 million for the others. January 1. As the quota of DKr 85 million for the four th quarter of 1973 for sales of krone bonds to non- residents had not been taken up fully, the period within which that quota could be used was extended until fur ther notice. January 1. The taking up of financial loans abroad, which had been permitted for certain categories of busi- ness firms since 1968, was made subject to more strin- gent conditions. Henceforth, such loans could generally be raised abroad only provided the entire proceeds were used exclusively to finance expenditures made within six months prior to the date of the .loan transaction, or to be made under contractual obliga- tions within six months following that date, for the establishment, extension, or equipment of the bor- rower's own business and /or industrial premises, and for the acquisition of plant, machinery, and transport equipment to be used for the borrower's own business and /or industrial activities. Every borrower was re- quired to declare in writing that his prospective finan- cial loan would meet these conditions; previously, such loans were often taken up for general liquidity pur- poses. The maximum permitted amount remained un- changed at DKr 5 million a borrower a year. Special rules were applicable to financial loans raised by affili- ates from their parent companies or vice versa, or from other affiliates of the same parent company. January 1. Denmark's scheme of generalized tariff preferences was superseded by the EEC scheme. January 19. The French franc ceased to be included among the currencies in respect of which the National Bank observed margins of 2Y4 per cent. The official buying and selling rates for the French franc were sus- pended. March 19. A new quota of DKr 100 million was established for the period to June 30 for sales to nonres- idents of Danish bonds denominated in Danish kroner. It was extended on that date until further notice. On 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK September 13 a new quota of DKr 150 million was set for the rest of the year; additional sales could be made with the prior approval of the National Bank. At the end of October, the Government announced that sales to nonresidents were being fu l ly liberalized with effect from December 1. March 28. Certain imports from the Republic of China, the People's Republic of China, North Korea, Mongolia, and North Viet-Nam were liberalized. Fur- thermore, with respect to imports, Turkey would be treated in the same manner as the EEC countries. April 2. A new banking law was enacted. One of its provisions made it possible under certain conditions for foreign banks to establish branches in Denmark. The law was to come into effect on January 1, 1975. May 2. An Executive Order freed exports of gold coins to non-EEC countries from licensing. May 17. Certain increases in purchase tax came into force. They affected mainly automobiles and other con- sumer durables. May 30. Denmark signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. September 13. The ceiling of DKr 5 million a bor- rower a year on financial loans taken up abroad was raised to DKr 20 million, and the conditions for raising such loans were eased somewhat. September 13. The ceiling on the negative net "com- mercial" foreign position of authorized foreign ex- change dealers was raised from DKr 250 million to DKr 400 million. This increase in the foreign borrow- ing quota of the credit institutions was to be used only for the financing of Danish foreign trade. September 24. Denmark subscribed to the Fund's Voluntary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. September 27. It was announced that an export credit institution would be formed in cooperation between the National Bank and the commercial banks. Moreover, the National Bank announced immediate improve- ments in its facilities for refinancing export credits of over two years, and export credits became exempt from the banks' lending ceiling. December 1. Sales to nonresidents of Danish bonds dealt in on stock exchanges and denominated in Danish kroner were fully liberalized. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Cana- dian dollars, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic k ronu r, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. With effect from January 1, 1975 the Japanese yen was included. 2 With effect from January 1, 1975, savings banks also could be appointed as authorized exchange dealers. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Dominican Peso, corresponding to RD$1 = US$1. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at RD$1 = US$1, plus a commission of V32 of 1 per cent. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the rate of RD$1 = US$1, subject to banking commissions of V4 of 1 per cent buying and of V2 of 1 per cent selling. Different effec- tive exchange rates may arise from the requirement of a fully prepaid letter of credit for certain imports. With the exception of payments for imports made with the importer's own foreign exchange, all payments abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The commercial banks are re- quired to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. There is a tolerated parallel exchange mar- ket. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic noti- fied the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is adminis- tered by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board estab- lishes import quotas, which are administered and controlled by the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development must be effected under special letters of credit. Certain im- port commissions must be paid in local currency only. Settlements with Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, and Vene- zuela may be effected through special accounts estab- lished under reciprocal credit agreements;1 payments for oil imports, however, may not be made through these accounts. Import payments in currencies other than the U.S. dollar must be made through a letter of credit. Otherwise no obligations are imposed on im- porters, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for payments to or from nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of some 80 categories of goods, including automobiles with an f.o.b. value in excess of RD$2,000, are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities are restricted by quotas. All commodities are exempt from quota and prohibition when they are financed with the importer's own foreign exchange; such imports are also exempt from prepayment of import taxes and surcharges. Licensing controls are maintained over a few commodities, however, for reasons of health or security. The import controls involve exchange alloca- tions. All payments for imports require the approval of the Central Bank, except those made with the import- er's own exchange. Insurance qn imports must be ef- fected with companies authorized to operate in the Dominican Republic. Commodities subject to quantitative restrictions can be imported and settled with official exchange only against a fu l ly prepaid letter of credit. The same re- quirement applies to some other goods that are not subject to quantitative restrictions, including many types of smoked, dried, or canned fish, alcoholic bever- ages, Venetian blinds, some perfumes and cosmetics, electric ovens, freezers and refrigerators, record play- ers, and certain construction materials. Some 20 other import items not subject to restrictions must be cov- ered by regular letters of credit. The commercial banks transmit to the Central Bank each day a list of applica- tions for all imports against letters of credit. After the Central Bank approves an application, the letter of credit may be opened by the commercial bank. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the commercial banks for the peso equiva- lent at the time of approval of the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is forwarded to the Central Bank after they have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. In prin- ciple, exchange for import payments is made available within not more than five working days from the re- ceipt of the application. Most imports are subject to an internal consumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem. Virtually all imports are also subject to customs surcharges (impuestos infernos) ranging from 10 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 56.6 per cent. Imports of agricultural and industrial machinery and equipment and spare parts are subject to a single import tax (including customs duties) of 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is given only after careful examination of the application and if the transaction is considered genuine. The allocation of foreign exchange for travel and for insurance premiums is suspended. Allowances for family remittances and medical ex- penses are rarely granted. Residents are not prevented, however, from purchasing exchange for travel purposes and personal remittances in the parallel market. Airline 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC tickets are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RDS200 or from RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RDS200 or less. Nonresidents working in the Dominican Republic may remit abroad for any purpose up to 60 per cent of their salaries. For students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly maintenance allowances are approved up to US$240 for Latin America, up to US$250 for Spain, up to US$270 for the United States and Canada, and up to US$300 for other European countries. Exchange is also sold for remittances to au- thorized students to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual payments, such as interest and amortization payments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in con- formity with the terms of contract. Transfers of profits and dividends are permitted only in respect of foreign investments that have been registered in the Central Bank and cannot exceed 18 per cent a year of the net value of the original and any additional investment, including reinvested profits. The Monetary Board, however, is empowered to authorize remittances in ex- cess of 18 per cent when investments are deemed benefi- cial to the Dominican economy. Dividends remitted or credited to nonresidents are subject to a tax of 18 per cent. In principle, exchange for payments for invisibles is made available within five days from receipt of the application. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agreement, and for coffee, cocoa, and tobacco. Within two working days of receiv- ing payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of their exports. For the purpose of exchange surrender, declared export prices must equal or exceed the minimum export prices published by the Central Bank. Exempt from the exchange surrender requirements are foreign mining companies, and firms operating in industrial free zones, which are only re- quired to convert sufficient foreign exchange to cover local costs and taxes. All exports of sugar and sugar by-products are subject to prior authorization by a committee consisting of the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Central Bank, and the Executive Di- rector of the Sugar Institute. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of embarka- tion without authorization by the Central Bank. 154 Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are subject to surrender requirements and must be surren- dered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either residents or nonresidents. Inward cap- ital remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and must be converted into pesos at that Bank. Registered foreign direct investments are eligible for remittances of profits and dividends. Registration is permitted for investments in agriculture, livestock, mining, manufacturing, tourism, transportation and communications, and finance companies. The Mone- tary Board may, however, permit the registration of other investments when deemed beneficial to the eco- nomic development of the country. Registration may cover the value of machinery and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as licenses and patents. Applica- tions for approval of outward capital remittances must be submitted through the commercial banks to the Central Bank. Withdrawals of capital by foreigners leaving the Dominican Republic are authorized in rea- sonable amounts, sometimes with provision for the transfer to be effected in annual installments. Applica- tions by residents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not al- lowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1974 January 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Mex- ico signed on December 3, 1973 came into operation. February 7. Imports of motor vehicles by govern- ment departments were prohibited. August 15. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Brazil. It came into force on September 1. October 22. Law No. 48 charged the Dominican Ex- port Promotion Center (CEDOPEX) with the centraliza- tion of all controls, quotas, regulations, and licenses in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution respect of exports of commodities other than coffee and sugar and its by-products. December 12. Monetary Board Resolution No. 3 ex- tended the system of import controls until December 31, 1975. December 12. Monetary Board Resolution No. 34 exempted from the letter of credit requirement all com- modities explicitly excluded from the system of quotas and prohibitions on imports. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC December 19. Monetary Board Resolution No. 5 ex- empted from quota and letter of credit requirement imports of textiles when intended as raw materials for the importer's own use. NOTE i Under these agreements, import collections and other paymen ts to the partner countries are settled promptly. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0355468 gram of f ine gold per Ecuadoran Sucre. A central rate of S/ 25.00 = US$1 has been established, corresponding to 0.0294665 gram of f ine gold per sucre. There are two exchange markets. In the off ic ial mar- ket the Central Bank of Ecuador ma in ta ins rates of S/ 24.80 buy ing, and S/ 24.95 selling, per U.S. dollar, which apply to export proceeds, import payments (ex- cept for printed matter), certain invisible and capital transactions, and most transactions by the Govern- ment or public entities; however, the exchange transac- tions of the private petroleum companies must be conducted with the Central Bank, at S/ 25.00 = US$1, subject to an exchange tax of 1 per cent, buy ing and selling. Proceeds from loans granted by international agencies to the Government and to pub l ic in s t i tu t ions also are converted at the Central Bank, at S/ 25.00 = US$1, but are exempt from the 1 per cent exchange tax. All o ther transac t ions take place in a free ma rket where the rate fluctuates according to supply and demand but in which the Central Bank intervenes in order to ma in- tain the ra te w i th in the margins applicable to the o f f i- cial rate. Transactions eligible for the free ma rket may a l te rna t ive ly be effected at the Central Bank, at its official market buy ing and selling rates. Loans taken up abroad are subject to an exchange tax rang ing f rom 2 per cent for ma tur i t ies under one year to 6 per cent for ma tu r i t ies over 30 mon th s. Ex- empt f rom th is tax are (1) credits f rom fo re ign govern- men ts and in te rna t ional f inanc ial organizations; (2) cred i ts gran ted to pub l ic and semipublic agencies; (3) inve s tment credits for the agr icu l tural and f i s h i ng sec- tors w i th a ma tu r i ty exceeding three years; (4) credits w i th a m a tu r i ty exceeding three years for the impor ta- tion of mach ine ry and capital goods; and (5) suppliers' credits wh ich do not invo lve an in f low of fore ign ex- change. Ecuador fo rma l ly accepted the ob l iga t ions of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, w i th effect f rom August 31, 1970. Administration of Control The Mone tary Board has au tho r i ty to sh i ft transac- t ions between the two exchange ma rke ts and has exten- sive powers w i th respect to impo rt policy. The off ic ial exchange ma rket is under the control and supervision of the Cen tral Bank. The Central Bank also issues im- port and export licenses and registers foreign capital. Impo r ts wh ich enter as part of a direct inves tment and impo r ts by foreign enterprises which have contracts w i th the Government require prior authorization by the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade, Indu s t ry, and In teg ra t ion and, when exemptions from fiscal charges are sought, 156 by the M in i s t ry of Finance. However, all applications for import licenses by industrial f irms must be submit- ted to the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Most settlements w i th the German Democratic Re- public, H u n g a r y, Poland, and Romania must take place th rough bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru must be made th rough accounts maintained w i th each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the LAFTA mu l t i la te ral clearing system. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in con- vertible currencies. Whenever possible, import pay- ments must be made in the currency stipulated in the impo rt license. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential and semiessential goods, and List II, consisting of less essential and luxu ry goods. All goods not included in these two lists are proh ib i ted. Prior impo rt licenses are required for all permitted impor ts, w i th the exceptions specified below. Books, newspapers, periodicals, and printed or re- corded music may be imported freely without a license or consular invoice; paymen ts have to be made th rough the free ma rke t. Medicine and spare parts for machin- ery and au tomo t ive vehicles are free of license when valued at US$500 c . i . f. or less (US$500 f .o .b. or less for goods shipped by air). A few goods may be imported on ly f rom LAFTA countries, and some only f rom Par- aguay; w i th these exceptions, import licenses are issued free ly irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropr ia te import taxes have been paid, that the required prepayments of 80 per cent of import duties have been made, and that a certificate is submit- ted showing that the insurance has been arranged in Ecuador. The licenses au toma t ica l ly entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c. & f. value of the impo r ts upon presentation of the sh ipp ing documents; advance payments for imports are permitted, subject to approval by the Central Bank. Impo rt licenses which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange li- censes" or permisos de importation no reembolsables) may be issued for goods financed from the proceeds of certain international loans, provided that these have been registered at the Central Bank, but such licenses are not required to import the goods concerned. The Monetary Board is authorized to shift items between Lists I and II and to prohibit the import of goods or l i ft import prohibitions when the economic ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution situation of the coun try and the balance of payments situation so require. Most imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent levied on commercial transactions. Furthermore, all goods are subject to a tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value, unless they represent g if ts or foreign loans. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments in respect of certain current invisibles may be obtained from the Central Bank at the official rate. These invisibles are in principle limited to interest on foreign loans that have been registered at the Central Bank, dividends and prof i ts on foreign invest- ments registered at the Central Bank, payments by the Government and public entities, and the necessary ex- penses of Ecuadorans studying at universities abroad. Interest payments at the official rate may not exceed 3 percentage points over the prime rate in the coun try of the lender or exporter, and remittances of dividends and prof i ts at the official rate may not exceed 14 per cent of the registered value of the investment. With respect to loans to petroleum companies only, interest, commission, and other financial charges on foreign loans may not exceed the equivalent of 2 per cent above the rates of interest of the creditor country; moreover, annual amortization may not exceed the sum of undis- tributed profits, depreciation of fixed assets and liqui- dated assets, and any variation in working capital. There are also limits on student allowances eligible for the official rate; these range from US$300 to US$450 a mon th, depending on the type of study and on the country involved. All other payments for current invisibles, including travel expenditure, must be settled in the free market and are unrestricted, but for all outward transfers in excess of US$10,000 documentation as to the purpose must be submitted to the Central Bank. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Residents trav- eling abroad by air must pay a tax of S/ 600 for each exit visa. Airline tickets for foreign travel are taxed at 10 per cent, while tickets for travel by ship are subject to tax at the rate of 8 per cent for departure from Ecuador and 4 per cent for the return trip to Ecuador. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure, among other things, the full surrender of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely, subject to guarantee. No surrender is required for exports effected under licensed barter transactions. Reference prices are established for exports of bananas to help to ensure full surrender of the exchange proceeds. Reference prices are also established for exports of crude petroleum; these serve as the basis for the calculation of taxes, royalties, etc. Certain exports are subject to export taxes, payable at the time the export license is received. An export tax of 15 per cent is levied on coffee beans, ECUADOR cocoa beans, and crude petroleum, and one of 12 per cent on sugar. Certain exports exempted from the ad valorem export taxes receive a subsidy based on the f.o.b. value. The subsidy is received in the form of a tax credit certificate (certificado de abono tributario) on the basis of customs documentation. There are other ex- port taxes in addition to those mentioned above. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from specified invisibles have to be sold to the Central Bank at the official rate. All other receipts, including those from travelers, may be sold in the free market. There are no limitations on the amounts of domestic and foreign banknotes that travelers may bring in. Capital Capital may freely enter or leave the country through the free market, but for all outward transfers in excess of US$10,000 documentation as to the purpose must be submitted to the Central Bank. Outward transfers through the official market are restricted. Most bor- rowing abroad is subject to an exchange tax ranging from 2 per cent to 6 per cent (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). All foreign investments in Ecuador1 must be regis- tered with the Central Bank in order to be entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate for remittances of interest, profits, dividends, and amortization; new in- vestments require the prior authorization of the Minis- try of Foreign Trade, Industry, and Integration. In the case of investment for which exchange was sold to cover local costs, the investor must document that the exchange was sold to the Central Bank. For foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equip- ment, the investor must document that the merchan- dise has been cleared through customs and that it took the form of a "nonreimbursable" import. Additionally, the investor must present to the Central Bank the certif- ication from the appropriate ministry (Finance, Natu- ral Resources and Tourism, or Production) that the declared value conforms to the actual value of the ma- chinery and equipment. The Exchange Department of the Central Bank must submit a recommendation to the General Management of the Central Bank within 30 days from receipt of the request for registration and all pertinent documentation. Thereafter, taking into ac- count the interests of the Ecuadoran economy and pri- orities established in the country's development plans, the General Management of the Central Bank must approve or deny the registration within an additional 30 days. In certain cases, where all documentation has been submitted, the Central Bank can provisionally register the investment for a period of up to 90 days. Similarly, loans in foreign exchange granted to the Government or to official entities must be registered with the Exchange Department of the Central Bank; for private loans registration is required for statistical pur- 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR poses. In the case of suppliers' credits and similar credit for financing the importation of merchandise, no spe- cial registration procedure is required; all the pertinent information on terms of payment, etc., is contained in the import license, and that provides the basis for pur- chase of exchange for remittance of interest, charges, and scheduled amortization. Foreign nationals are pro- hibited from owning rural properties and from own ing or operating mining industries within 30 miles of Ecua- dor's coastline or borders. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the withdrawal of foreign investment f rom Ecuador five years after the date of registration, on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank. Prof i ts accumu- lated in previous years may be repatriated also on the basis of a schedule agreed by the Central Bank for investments which have completed the registration pro- cedure. For investments registered on a provisional ba- sis, no prof i ts may be repatriated th rough the off ic ial market. Profit remittances may not exceed the l im it (14 per cent a year) specified in the Foreign Inves tment Code of the Andean Pact. Residents who are private ind iv idua ls are not granted official foreign exchange to purchase securities or real estate abroad. Commercial banks are authorized to maintain accounts w i th correspondent banks abroad in convertible currencies. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work whose gold con- tent represents not more than 25 per cent of its ma rket value. Impor ts of mone tary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as List I impor ts, pay- able th rough the off ic ial ma rke t. Impo r ts of nonmone- tary gold in bars may be made by the Central Bank or by any other resident and are also treated as List I imports. Gold bars are exempt f rom impo rt d u t y, wh i le that on semiworked gold is 70 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1974 January 9. Decree No. 1445 of December 28, 1973 was pub l ished, wh ich established new reference prices for petroleum exports, w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1974. January 17. Supreme Decree No. 65 reduced the ad valorem export tax on sugar f rom 15 per cent to 12 per cent. January 30. Monetary Board Resolution No. 701 established w i th immediate effect the m i n im um surren- der requ iremen ts for the exchange proceeds f rom ex- ports of crude pe tro leum. Resolution No. 691 of November 21, 1973 was revoked. January 31. The new M in ing Law of J a n u a ry 24, 1974 (Decree No. 101) came in to force. February 1. Decree No. 108 mod if ied the export duties on silver, gold, and p la t inum. 158 February 6. The Monetary Board issued a Regula- tion for the adm in is tra t ion of its Regulation No. 698 of December 20, 1973 regarding the program for external supplies of inpu ts and raw materials for agriculture, fisheries, and the processing indu s t ry. February 28. Decree No. 850 of the Bank ing Super- intendency modified the regulations governing the ex- change houses. March 15. Decree No. 294-D empowered the Cen- tral Bank to grant credit, and extend guarantees, in foreign currency for the purpose of ensuring paymen ts for imports, inc lud ing advance payments. March 15. Decree No. 294-F provided a def in i t ion of the net in te rna t ional mone ta ry reserves of the Central Bank by spec ify ing the cons t i tuent assets and liabilities. March 25. Decree No. 316 imposed w i th immediate effect a variable exchange tax on foreign credits. The tax was payable to the Central Bank at the time of conversion. The ra te of tax ranged f rom 2 per cent for ma tur i t ies of less than one year to 6 per cent for maturi- ties exceeding 30 mon ths. The fo l low ing borrowings were exemp t: (1) credits f rom fore ign governmen ts and in te rna t ional f inanc ial organizations; (2) credits given to public and semipublic agencies; (3) inves tment cred- its w i th a m a t u r i ty longer than three years destined for the agr icu l tural and f i sh ing sectors; (4) credits w i th a m a t u r i ty longer th an three years destined for the im- por ta t ion of mach ine ry and capital goods; and (5) sup- pliers' credits which do not constitute an inf low of fore ign exchange. April 4. A new customs ta r i ff (Decree No. 198-M) came in to force, wh ich consolidated specific and ad valorem du t ies in to a new schedule of ad valorem im- port duties. The overall average tar iff rate was reduced cons iderab ly. At the same time, the 5 per cent tax on List II impo r ts was reduced to 1 per cent, the rate applicable for List I impo r ts (Mone tary Board Resolu- tion No. 709). April 4. Reso lu t ion No. 709 reclassified import Lists I and II according to the NABAND INA tariff code and revoked the prev ious classification in Resolution No. 627 of Ju ly 19, 1972. April 14. Reso lu t ion No. 712 empowered the Central Bank to g rant advances against f u t u re export proceeds. May 14. Decree No. 497 modified the s truc ture of the Mone tary Board. May 22. Resolution No. 713 f ixed at S/ 25 = US$1 the exchange rate for the conversion and the servicing of loans gran ted to the Government and to official agencies by fore ign governmen ts and in terna t ional fi- nancial ins t i tu t ions. June 5. Resolution No. 725 provided that all im- por ts had to be paid for w i th foreign exchange obtained f rom the Central Bank. July 10. Reso lu t ion No. 728 of the Mone tary Board authorized the Cen tral Bank to make official exchange for interest ava i lab le at interest rates up to 3 percentage po in ts over the prime ra te in the lend ing coun t ry or, in the case of export credit, the expo r t ing coun t ry. Previ- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ously, the corresponding limits were 7V2 per cent per annum for financial credits and 7 per cent for suppliers' credits. July 23. Decree No. 745 clarified the provisions of Decree No. 316 of March 25. The registration tax of 2-6 per cent was the only tax applicable to foreign loans, and these were exempt from withholding tax. July 29. The contracting of external commercial debt at a fluctuating rate of interest was prohibited (Resolu- tion No. 74^-003). August 14. A new Hydrocarbons Law (Law No. 803 of August 6) was published. It was a recodification of existing legislation. August 30. Decree No. 887 specified the powers of the Supreme Foreign Trade Council, the Central Bank, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, Industry, and Integra- tion, the Superintendency of Companies, and the Bank- ECUADOR ing Superintendency, with respect to authorizations and contracts covered by the Cartagena Agreement provisions on investments of foreign capital. The De- cree came into force on September 5 and revoked Su- preme Decree No. 1323 of November 26, 1973. October 2. Resolution No. 743 authorized private banks to extend lines of credit for imports of raw mate- rials and other industrial inputs. November 13. Decree No. 890 authorized banks to make available the necessary foreign exchange for im- port shipments that exceeded by up to 20 per cent the value or quan t i ty specified in the import license. 1 New regulations governing foreign investment in speci- fied sectors of the economy were issued on March 1, 1975. NOTE 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was established by the Arab Republic of Egypt w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Most exchange transactions take place at rates based on the o f f ic ial ra te of LE 1 = US$2.55555. The Central Bank of Egypt's official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were LE 0.391305 and LE 0.395218, respectively. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most ou twa rd remittances of inv is i- bles and capital at the official rate. An exchange ra te of approx ima te ly US$1.70 buy ing, and US$1.65 selling, per LE 1, is applicable to transac- t ions in specified conver t ib le currencies1 in a parallel exchange ma rket conducted th rough au thor ized com- mercial banks where the buy ing and selling rates are LE 0.586957 and LE 0.606522, respectively, per US$1. Banks requ i re prior exchange con t rol approval to deal among themselves in foreign currencies or to en- gage in a rb i t rage t ransac t ions abroad; such approval is not requ ired, however, for t ransac t ions effected th rough the parallel exchange ma rket or for balances held in specified fore ign cu r rency accoun ts. Administration of Control Exchange con t rol is supervised by a Supreme Com- m i t tee for Foreign Exchange, wh ich is set up by the M in is ter of Finance. The exchange con trol laws, m in is- terial orders, decree-laws, ins truc t ions of the Minister of Finance, and decisions of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appo in ted by the M in is te r. A foreign exchange budget is established annua l ly. Exchange con trol is imple- men ted under the superv is ion and in s t ru c t ions of the Undersecre tary of Finance for Budget and Con t rol of Foreign Exchange and the D irec tor of Exchange Oper- a t ions. The technical work of exchange con t rol is per- formed by the Exchange Control Adm in is t ra t ion a t tached to the afore-men t ioned Undersecre tary. Banks are authorized to execute foreign exchange transac- tions, w i th in the f ramewo rk of a general au tho r iza t ion, w i thout need to obtain specific exchange control ap- prova l. The General Con trol A u t h o r i ty for Expor ts and Impo r ts supervises impo r ts and expor ts. Impo r ts are controlled by exchange allocations ra ther th an by impo rt licenses. Most impo r ts and expor ts are carried out by pub l ic sector companies. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts for impo r ts no rma l ly may be made on ly to the coun t ry of or ig in. Paymen ts to residents of countries w i th which Egypt does not have bilateral 160 payments agreements may be made in the currency of the payee's coun try when that currency is available; in a convertible currency;1 in Egyptian pounds to the credit of the appropriate nonresident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Exchange Control Ad- ministration. Receipts other than those in respect of raw cotton exports may be accepted in the currency of the payor's coun try, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible currency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident ac- count; or in any other manner permitted by the Ex- change Control Administration. The proceeds from exports of raw cotton to convertible currency countries must be received in deutsche mark or Swiss francs, or, if that currency is acceptable to the Exchange Control Adm in is tra t ion, the convertible currency of the import- ing coun t ry. Settlements w i th countries with which Egypt has paymen ts agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 Certain settlements with countries w i th which indemn i ty agreements concerning compensation for nationalized proper ty are in force are made th rough special accounts in Egyptian pounds w i th the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by deb i t ing a Sh ipp ing Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible cu r rency to an authorized bank in Egypt or by debiting a Free Non res ident Account. Nonresident Accounts In add i t ion to the special accounts related to the b i la te ral paymen ts agreements of Egypt or to the in- d em n i ty agreements concluded w i th certain countries, there are four ma in types of nonresident accounts in Egyp t ian pounds: Free Nonres ident Accounts, Non- resident C Accounts, Nonresident D Accounts, and Conve r t ib le Egyp t ian Pound Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any non re s iden t, irrespective of his coun t ry of residence, and by i n t e r n a t i o n al organizations w i th headqua r te rs in Egyp t. They may be credited w i th pro- ceeds f rom the sale of any conver t ib le currency that has been t ran s fe r red f rom abroad; w i th t rans fe rs from other Free Nonres ident Accounts; w i th interest on the ac- counts; and w i th the Egyptian pound equivalent of any t r an s f er au thor ized in conver t ib le cu r rency. They may be debited for paymen ts due to residents; for transfers to o ther Free Nonres ident Accounts or Nonresident C or D Accounts; and for paymen ts abroad in any con- v e r t ib le cu r rency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any non re s iden t, irrespective of his coun try of residence. They may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale of any conver t ib le currency that has been trans- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ferred from abroad; with transfers from Free Nonresi- dent Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Exchange Control Administration. They may be debited, subject to exchange control ap- proval, for payments due to residents (except for ex- ports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements); for transfers to other Nonresident C Accounts; for trans- fers to Nonresident D Accounts; and for payments abroad in convertible currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country.2 The account must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned, and transfers from the account of one country to that of any other country may not be made without exchange control authorization. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been trans- ferred from abroad; with transfers from a Free Nonresi- dent Account and —provided that exchange control authorization is obtained —with transfers from a Non- resident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresi- dent D Accounts of the same nationality; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements, and —provided that exchange control authorization is obtained —for transfers to other Nonresident D Ac- counts and for payments to the country in whose name the account is designated. Convertible Egyptian Pound Accounts may be opened by nonresident juridical or physical persons and by Egyptian physical persons regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes. These accounts may be credited with the domestic currency equivalent of for- eign currency transferred from abroad, and the domes- tic currency equivalent of the value of consumer goods imported under the parallel market arrangements. They may be debited for payments in Egypt eligible for the parallel market, payments for Egyptian exports eli- gible for that market, and transfers abroad in convert- ible currency. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations. Transfers be- tween blocked accounts require prior approval. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder or his fam i ly in Egypt. They may also be debited, subject to prior approval, for investments in Egyptian Govern- ment loans or in registered shares in nominative form of companies established in Egypt, and for subscrip- tions to increases in capital of Egyptian companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. In- come derived from such investments may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary. Blocked accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for amounts not exceeding LE 1,000 a year for settlement of obligations due to the Egyptian authorities, payments to residents EGYPT for services rendered, and expenses incurred in connec- tion with the activities or residence of the holder's em- ployees or representatives in Egypt. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are blocked; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currency may be held by nonresident physical or juridical per- sons; by physical persons who, for exchange control purposes, are treated as nonresident; and by physical persons who are Egyptian citizens and are either work- ing abroad or performing services in Egypt for persons abroad. These accounts may be credited with any con- vertible currency transferred from abroad (including banknotes); transfers from other foreign currency ac- counts of the same type (as well as existing balances in the four types of foreign currency accounts that were discontinued on June 1, 1974); and any interest pay- able on the accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments in Egypt permitted by any pertinent rules and regulations; transfers to other foreign currency ac- counts of the same type; and transfers abroad in any convertible currency. (Residents may hold Foreign Currency Accounts-Parallel Market/Exports and For- eign Currency Accounts —Parallel Market/Tourism) Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods from any source, and all imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, are prohibited. No exchange is allocated in practice for many goods that are considered nonessential or that are also produced locally. Certain commodities, mostly when imported by the private sector, are financed at the parallel market rate. Most imports are made by publicly owned commer- cial companies affiliated with the General Organization for Foreign Trade. Some imports may also be made by certain industrial and other public sector establish- ments. Private sector imports are handled by a Foreign Trade Company. A Supreme Council for the Planning of Foreign Trade is entrusted with establishing long-term policy for exports and imports, controlling the annual export and import plan, and supervising the execution of the foreign exchange budget. The ministries concerned are responsible for setting priorities regarding imports and their timing, within the framework of quarterly foreign exchange programs. Foreign trade committees in the various ministries and authorities consider import and export offers for the goods within their competence, in the light of specifications, prices, delivery dates, and means of payment. Approval by a foreign trade com- mittee constitutes the necessary authorization for the implementation of import transactions. Private sector imports through the parallel market, other than those for the tourist industry, require approval by the Com- mercial Agency for the Parallel Market and, for orders for standardized commodities of a value exceeding 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT LE 5,000, app roval by the De te rm ina t ion Comm i t tee for the Parallel Ma rke t. For purposes of adm in i s t r a t ion, the economy is di- vided i n to several sectors (ag r icu l tu ra l, indu s t r ia l, t ranspo r ta t ion, etc.). The annual foreign exchange bud- get prov ides for a specific quo ta for each sector, and the au tho r i t ies in charge of the sector decide upon the goods to be imported w i th in that quo ta. In draw ing up th is budge t, an es t ima te is made f i r st of the coun t ry 's export proceeds and its earn ings f rom inv is ib les, as well as the expected ava i lab i l i ty of foreign loans and other credit fac i l i t ies. Allowance is then made for the com- m i tm e n ts f a l l ing due du r ing the fiscal year in respect of fore ign debt service and o ther ob l iga t ions, as well as paymen ts for inv is ib les. The rema in ing resources in convertible and bilateral currencies are allocated to the various sectors of the economy in accordance w i th the priorities given to the impo rt requ i remen ts of each. An External Financing Committee has been established in accordance w i th Ministerial Decree No. 607 of 1971. It coord ina tes fore ign exchange requ i remen ts and ava i l- able resources by draw ing up qua r te r ly programs for the imp lemen ta t ion of the annu al fo re ign exchange budge t. By v i r tue of Order No. 478 of 1973, all goods may be impo r ted w i t h o ut an impo rt perm i t; impo r ts are regulated by exchange allocations ra ther than by im- port licenses. By v i r tue of Order No. 64 of 1974, commod i t ies ap- pearing in a special list may be imported w i thout pur- chase of fore ign exchange, as fo l lows. (1) Egyp t ian citizens receiving f u n ds eligible for the parallel ma rket may transfer these funds to Egypt in the form of the listed goods ra ther t h an fore ign cu r rency; and (2) alien physical persons and Egyp t ian citizens can supp ly the listed goods against payment to the credit of Convert- ible Egyp t ian Pound Accounts, provided that they are regarded as nonresidents for exchange con trol pu r- poses. No approval is required for such impo r ts by residents where the value is less than LE 5,000. For larger amounts, and in all cases where the impor ter is a non res iden t, a special de term ina t ion committee must f i r st approve the terms of the t ran sac t ion. Certain im- ported goods may also be sold for foreign currency to Egyp t ians and foreigners at special shops. A development tax of 10 per cent of the c . i . f. value is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for certain h igh ly essential food s tu f fs imported by the M in i s t ry of Supp ly. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c . i .f. value is payable on all impor ts except whea t. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to prov ide exchange for pay- ments for certain invisibles in accordance w i th general au thor iza t ions and ins t ruc t ions and up to specific quo- tas. Egyp t ian na t iona ls who have deposited earnings from their work abroad, or from services performed for nonresidents, in foreign currency accounts, may use 162 th is fo re ign exchange free ly for any travel expenses for themselves, the ir wives and children, or their parents. Other residents may purchase, th rough local banks and up to specified amoun ts, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other purposes, at the parallel ma rket rate. Paymen ts for inv is ib les due in convertible currency must be settled in the parallel market, with the excep- t ion of the fo l low ing, wh ich take place at the official rate: gove rnment paymen ts; specified types of pay- men ts relating to shipping; export expenses payable at the o f f ic ial rate; repa tr ia t ion of amoun ts b rought in at the official rate; re insurance paymen ts and indemnities due f rom insu rance companies; pensions due to nonres- iden ts; bank expenses and commissions due to foreign correspondents for transactions settled at the official rate; consu lar proceeds; and repayment of public and in te rna t ional comm i tmen ts as well as the payment of amortization and interest due on transactions settled at the o f f ic ial ra te. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all pay- men ts for invisibles at the official rate, except students' rem i t tances, gove rnment paymen ts, and t ran s fe rs of f u n ds for pilgrimages. Travelers may not export Egyp t ian pound bank- notes. Egyp t ian na t iona ls wo rk ing abroad and re turn- ing to the ir place of work may take w i th them any rema in ing fore ign exchange wh ich they had brought in and declared; fo re ign t rave le rs leav ing Egypt may take out only the balance af ter deduction of the equivalent of £ stg. 5 for each n i g ht spent in Egyp t. Residents may not take out fore ign exchange in excess of the equivalent of £ stg. 30 w i thout specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apa rt f rom expor ts to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, which are proh ib i ted, and commodities re- qu i red for the na t ional economy, whose export may be restricted, expor ts may be made free of license. Exports of many produc ts are organized and supervised by for- eign t rade committees. Cotton, rice, and petroleum are exported by the pub l ic sector on ly. The proceeds in specified convertible currencies f rom exports other than raw co t ton, cotton ya rn and co t ton textiles, rice, petro- leum and pe tro leum produc ts, potatoes, fresh onions and garlic, cement, and re-exported foreign goods may be retained for six mon ths in domestic foreign currency accounts; the same applies to 50 per cent of any pro- ceeds in convertible currency in excess of the export targe ts for cement and for cotton ya rn and cotton tex- tiles. Balances in these accounts may be used by the holder to make paymen ts for certain impor ts or current inv is ib les (subject to a commission equal to the d i f fe r- ence between the parallel market buying and selling rates) or may be sold to banks at the parallel market rate. Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three mon ths f rom the da te of sh ipment of the goods. Pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ceeds from exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified countries may be settled through indemnity accounts in Egyptian pounds. Proceeds from Invisibles The parallel market is applied to the following re- ceipts in convertible currencies: foreign currency sold by individuals arriving from abroad; amounts trans- ferred for the benefit of persons engaged in the tourist industry for expenses related to tourist activities; all amounts transferred from abroad to physical persons, unless intended for investment purposes; all interest, profits, commissions, and other income accruing abroad to individuals, professional offices, and public sector companies; donations and subsidies received from abroad by various kinds of nongovernmental or- ganizations and societies; amounts transferred by non- resident physical or juridical persons for credit to a Convertible Egyptian Pound Account; proceeds from temporary license and international trade operations financed from abroad. Physical persons who are considered nonresidents (including emigrants of Egyptian nationality, Egyptian nationals who have been resident abroad for at least five consecutive calendar years, and foreigners who re- side in Egypt) are not obliged to transfer to Egypt any part of their foreign earnings. They may retain these earnings in foreign currency accounts. Egyptian nation- als who are working abroad for a period of less than f ive calendar years or who perform services for nonresi- dents are obliged, in principle, to repatriate fixed per- centages of their foreign income and may retain the balance in foreign currency accounts. With these excep- tions, all persons and legal entities in Egypt are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, within one mon th from the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in for- eign currencies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds from a Shipping Account No. 1, which may be credited only with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies or by transfers from a Free Nonresident Account. Certain travel in Egypt by nonresidents may be financed from Nonresident C Accounts, or, under indemnity agree- ments with specified countries, from Nonresident T Accounts. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may not im- port Egyptian pound banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in for- eign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Foreign travelers must convert in to Egyptian currency the equivalent of £ stg. 30 to obtain an entry visa. Capital Egyptian nationals who have deposited foreign earn- ings in foreign currency accounts in Egyptian banks EGYPT may use this foreign exchange for any purpose, includ- ing transfer abroad. With this exception, outward capi- tal transfers by residents are severely restricted. Egyptian emigrants are authorized to transfer funds and /or to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family; in addition, they may export freely personal effects and furn i ture up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a family. Capital transfers abroad are subject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in Egypt against payment in foreign curren- cies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresi- dent account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds from sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between nonresidents require prior approval. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securities drawn or ma- tured in accordance with the original terms of issue; (2) the value of life or endowment policies on surrender or at maturity; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irre- spective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a family's assets in Egypt to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any payment of a capi- tal nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. Law No. 43 of 1974 defines the treatment of new foreign investments. Requests for transfers of profits not cov- ered by this law are considered on an individual basis. Gold The monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form. Other residents may only hold and acquire gold coins and gold jewelry in Egypt. There is a free market for gold coins in Cairo. With the exception of monetary gold, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry are restricted. Changes during 1974 February 10. The Agency for Arab and International Economic Cooperation was established as an indepen- dent organization attached to the Minister of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade. Among the agency's functions were the supervision of foreign investment, foreign debt, and relations with international financial organizations. March 24. Convertible currency proceeds from ex- ports of dehydrated onions and garlic were shifted from the official market to the parallel market. April 8. The regulations on the use of "own ex- change" for imports of automobiles were modified. 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Customs duties on cars and motorcycles for personal use and on cars for use as taxicabs were reduced. More- over, Egyp t ians were permitted to impo r t, each year, one car for personal use and another one to be offered as a g i f t, provided that a specified sum in convertible currency (the equivalent of £ stg. 100 for a fou r -cy l in- der car or £ stg. 150 for a car w i th more than four cylinders) is converted in to Egyp t ian pounds at the official rate. April 8. A decree was issued exempting from customs duties and other forms of taxa t ion impor ts for low-cost hous ing projects upon the request of the m in is ter con- cerned. In add i t ion, certain imported goods could again be sold for foreign currency to Egyptians and foreigners at the free ma rke ts and all other shops authorized to sell goods for foreign currency. (This fac i l i ty had been discontinued two years earlier.) April 26. The M in i s t ry of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade was replaced by a M in is try of Finance and a M in is t ry of Foreign Trade. The M in is try of Fi- nance was given charge of exchange control and the fore ign exchange budge t. The Agency for Arab and In terna t ional Economic Cooperation was given the sta- tus of a separate m in i s t ry. June L Order No. 64 (see also below) provided that exchange rates in the parallel market would be deter- mined in the l ight of the preva i l ing fore ign exchange considerations and indications. June L Order No. 65 created a committee charged w i th the determination of the effec t ive exchange rates in the parallel marke t. It was to operate on the principle that any rate ad jus tmen ts wou ld serve to promote the liberalization of impor ts, but that the premium and surcharge applied to the official buy ing rate would not be reduced f rom the existing levels of 50 and 55 per cent. June L Order No. 64 revoked Ministerial Order No. 477 of 1973, wh ich had created the parallel mar- ke t, and set new ground rules for that marke t. In addi- tion to Egyp t ian commercial banks, those permitted to operate the parallel market hencefor th included tourist companies, hotels, free markets, and shops selling goods for foreign currency; banks were now permitted to keep parallel market funds abroad, to arb i trage and invest such balances abroad, and to deal among them- selves in foreign currency eligible for the parallel mar- ke t. A precise l is t ing was given of the transactions eligible for the parallel market, on the supply side as well as on the demand side. On the supp ly side, there was a considerable increase in types of eligible fund s, by the addition of (1) all amounts transferred from abroad to physical persons, unless intended for invest- ment purposes; (2) all interest, prof i ts, commissions, and other income accruing abroad to individuals, pro- fessional offices, and public sector companies; (3) dona- tions and subsidies received f rom abroad by various k inds of nongovernmen tal organizations and societies; and (4) amoun ts transferred by nonresident physical or juridical persons for credit to a new type of domestic 164 currency account, the Convertible Egyptian Pound Ac- count. Append ix I listed the goods whose export proceeds were not eligible for the parallel market as raw cotton; cotton yarn and cotton textiles; rice; petroleum and petroleum products; fresh onions; fresh garlic; pota- toes; cement; and re-exported foreign goods. This was subject, however, to the reservation tha t, as previously, 50 per cent of any convertible currency proceeds in excess of export targe ts f rom co t ton yarn and cotton textiles did q u a l i fy for the parallel ma rke t, and the same now became applicable to cement. Append ix II listed the goods th at ind iv idua ls could supp ly under certain arrangemen ts. Such goods were subject to two d i f fe rent provisions; Egyp t ian citizens receiving funds eligible for the parallel market could t ran s fer these funds to Egypt in the form of the listed goods ra ther than for- eign currency; alien physical persons and Egyp t ian citi- zens could supp ly the listed goods to the credit of Convertible Egyptian Pound Accounts, provided in ei- ther case that they were regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes. Among the effects of the new regulations were the fo l low ing: (1) 50 per cent of the proceeds f rom exports of cement above the target for cement exports settled in convertible currencies was shifted from the official ma rket to the parallel marke t; and (2) impo r ta t ion against settlement th rough the parallel market was sim- plified, when a large number of commodities could be imported w i thout an impo rt license, either w i th "own exchange" or exchange earned by the impor ter th rough the parallel ma rke t. Impo r tant prov is ions that remained unchanged in- cluded the fo l low ing: (1) the period w i th in wh ich for- eign currency must be used by the holder or sold to a commercial bank was six mon ths; (2) ou twa rd t rans fe rs in respect of capital, f am i ly remittances, and travel ex- penditures were not subject to the 5 per cent exchange tax when settled th rough the parallel ma rke t; and (3) transactions in th is ma rket were exempt f rom exchange licenses and import licenses. June L Order No. 66 created a single type of exter- nal nonresident account in fore ign currency, to replace the four existing types of fore ign currency accounts (External Accounts of Nonresident Aliens, External Accounts of Resident Aliens, External Accounts of Egyp t ian Citizens, and Foreign Currency Resident Ac- counts of Egyptian Citizens). The new accounts could be opened for (1) nonresident physical or jur id ical per- sons; (2) physical persons who for exchange control purposes are treated as nonresidents; and (3) physical persons who are Egyptian citizens and are either wo rk- ing abroad or pe r fo rm ing services in Egypt for persons abroad. These accounts could be credited with (1) any conver t ib le currency t rans fe r red f rom abroad (includ- ing bankno tes, subject to rules to be issued later); (2) t rans fe rs f rom other foreign currency accounts of the same type (as well as existing balances in the four types of accounts that were being discontinued); and (3) any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution interest payable on the accounts. They could be debited for (1) payments in Egypt permitted by any pertinent rules and regulations; (2) transfers to other foreign cur- rency accounts of the same type; and (3) transfer abroad in any convertible currency. June 77. A special Determination Committee was created to consider offers of goods to be imported, where either the supplier is a nonresident, or the value of the transaction financed by residents exceeds LE 5,000. June 17. Regulations were issued by the Ministry of Finance for the implementation of Order No. 64. They contained, among others, the following new provisions: (1) Payments for invisibles due in convertible cur- rency had to be settled in the parallel market, with the exception of the following, which were to take place at the official rate: government payments; specified types of payments relating to shipping; export expenses pay- able at the official rate; repatriation of amounts brought in at the official rate; reinsurance payments and indemnities due from insurance companies; pen- sions due to nonresidents; bank expenses and commis- sions due to foreign correspondents for transactions settled at the official rate; consular proceeds; and re- payment of public and international commitments as well as the payment of amortization and interest due on transactions settled at the official rate. (2) For trade transactions to be settled in the parallel market, the amount eligible was the f.o.b. value in the case of exports and the c.i.f. value in the case of im- ports. (3) Egyptian commercial banks, which already had been allowed to keep w i th their correspondents abroad any foreign currency related to the parallel market, now were also authorized, for purposes of the operation of this market, to deal among themselves in foreign cur- rencies; to engage in foreign currency arbitrage abroad; and to invest their balances abroad. (4) Two new types of domestic foreign currency ac- counts were created in which resident exporters, travel agencies, and hotels could hold w i th local banks any foreign currency receipts eligible for the parallel mar- ket: Foreign Currency Accounts-Parallel Ma rke t /Ex- ports and Foreign Currency Accounts-Parallel Marke t /Tour ism. Permitted debits and credits were listed, which corresponded essentially to the previous regulations. (5) Rules were issued for the operation of the new Convertible Egyptian Pound Accounts created by Or- der No. 64. Such accounts could be opened with local banks by (a) nonresident juridical or physical persons and (b) Egyptian physical persons regarded as nonresi- dents for exchange control purposes. The accounts could be credited w i th (a) the domestic currency equiv- alent of foreign currency transferred from abroad and (b) the domestic currency equivalent of the value of consumer goods imported under the parallel market arrangements. They could be debited for (a) payments in Egypt eligible for the parallel market, (b) payments EGYPT for Egyptian exports eligible for that inarket, and (c) transfers abroad in convertible currency. (6) Payments for current invisibles through the par- allel market remained subject to existing limitations and allocations, including those for travel abroad. Where allocations were expressed in Egyptian pounds, the number of foreign currency units that could be acquired in the parallel market was calculated at the official exchange rate. June 19. The President issued a new foreign invest- ment law, Law No. 43 of 1974. The law defined the fields in which investment was particularly required (industrialization, mining, power, tourism and trans- portation, land reclamation, housing, banking, and re- insurance). Foreign and Arab capital in specified fields was exempt from requirements of Egyptian participa- tion. Approved investments would not be confiscated or nationalized, neither would they be sequestrated or seized other than through due process of law. Preferen- tial treatment was provided for in respect of taxes and duties. The invested capital could be repatriated, sub- ject to the approval of the investment authority, once five years had elapsed since the date of registration, or when the firm could not continue in business for rea- sons beyond its control. Funds could also be trans- ferred within Egypt or abroad to another investor, or transferred abroad in the original currency in five equal annual installments. July 16. Four U.S. commercial banks were licensed to open bank ing offices in the duty-free industrial zones in Egypt. Two of the banks were also permitted to form commercial banks in Cairo to be jo in t ly owned with Egyptian banks. At the same time, the investment agreement with the United States was reactivated. Sub- sequently, a joint commission was set up with the U.S. Government. July 27. The Central Bank changed the selling rate for the U.S. dollar from LE 0.393652 to LE 0.395218. August 22. A new commodity list containing a wide range of goods was substituted for Appendix II at- tached to Ministerial Order No. 64. September 5. The bilateral payments agreement con- cluded on August 2, 1973 with Czechoslovakia to re- place that of March 21, 1962 came into force. October 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the Syrian Arab Republic expired. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Tunisia expired. NOTES 1 Convertible currencies for this purpose are listed as Aus- t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwa i ti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. For purposes of the parallel ex- change market, banknotes in Saudi Arabian rivals and a few other currencies are also regarded as convertible. 2 On December 31, 1974, Egypt had bilateral payments 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT agreements w i th Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, People's Repub- lie of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Greece, Hung a ry, I raq, No r th Korea, Mongo l ia, Morocco, Poland, Roman ia, Sudan, Tunisia, U.S.S.R., No r th V ie t- Nam, and Yemen A rab Republic. In add i t ion, for the f inanc- ing of trade in certain specified commodities, credit facilities have been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the cen tral banks of Ghana, Gu inea, Ind ia, Jordan, Mali, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, and Tu rkey. There is also a special p aym en ts a r rangement on the commercial bank level w i th Bang ladesh. On December 31, 1974, the paymen ts agreement w i th Cuba was inope ra t ive. W i th effect f rom J anu a ry 1, 1975, se t t lemen ts w i th Tun is ia were placed on a conve r t ib le cur- rency basis. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.294665 gram of f ine gold per Salvadoran Colon, corresponding to 0 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador for transactions with the public are 0 2.49 buying, and 0 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits. A stamp tax of Yio of 1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange as well as drafts and other documents embodying a right to exchange; on amounts below 0 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amounts that may be slightly in excess of Y10 of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Subject to any directives issued by the Monetary Board, exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments, including most import payments, is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports must be obtained from the Exchange Control Department. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Exports of a number of commodities require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy or of Agriculture. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Com- pany and require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles must be settled in the currencies of those countries or in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Compen- sation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico are also settled through the clearing- house. Otherwise, residents are free to make authorized payments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts Accredited diplomatic missions and other foreign in- stitutions or persons established in El Salvador may hold nonresident accounts in foreign currency with banks authorized by the Exchange Control Depart- ment, provided that such accounts are credited with foreign exchange received from abroad. Banks also may freely open foreign currency accounts, for any period of time and in any amount, in the names of physical per- sons (whether of foreign or Salvadoran nationality) who reside abroad, and, for a maximum period of six months, in the names of foreign persons staying in El Salvador for a period not exceeding six months. All nonresident accounts may be utilized freely, but the commercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such ac- counts. In addition, there are certain facilities for resi- dent accounts in foreign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for only a few items; these are mainly airplanes, firearms, ammunition, mili- tary equipment, dynamite, cotton for industrial use, jute sacks, skins, leather, some chemical and pharma- ceutical products, coffee for seeding, sugar, and saccha- rin. Imports from all countries must be registered with the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed; orders for imports from countries outside Central America must be approved by the Exchange Control Department. For approval purposes, three classes of imports may be distinguished, as indicated below. (1) The Exchange Control Department may only authorize the purchase of goods whose terms of pay- ment do not exceed a certain maximum period (counted from the date of entry of the merchandise into a cus- toms warehouse), as follows: (a) Imports of raw materi- als for industry, iron and steel products for the construction industry, hand tools, various spare parts, and greases and lubricants, when the terms of payment do not exceed three years.1 (b) Imports of basic food products and medical and surgical supplies, when the terms do not exceed one year.2 Imports of the following goods are not subject to maximum credit terms: ma- chinery and equipment for agriculture and industry, semiprocessed goods for industrial production, surgical equipment, research and educational equipment, scien- tific, technical, or cultural books, and fertilizers, insec- ticides, fungicides, and herbicides. (2) For certain goods that are considered nonessen- tial, the Exchange Control Department cannot autho- rize importation unless an advance deposit requirement is met. A prior import deposit in local currency, equiva- lent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, must be paid for these goods at the time of import registration. They include specified nonessential food products, confec- tionery, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, perfumes, cos- metics, watches, jewelry, automobiles, furniture, domestic appliances, and certain textiles. Small busi- nesses are exempt from this requirement, subject to certain conditions, for imports up to US$30,000 a year of goods not produced in El Salvador. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR (3) The purchase of imports not covered under (1) or (2) above may only be authorized by the Exchange Control Department subject to the condition that the import is paid for before the goods are registered in the customs warehouse. Imports from countries outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market that apply discriminatory restric- tions against exports from El Salvador also must be paid for before customs clearance, with the exception of industrial raw materials, which may be paid for within three years (medicines from Mexico may be paid for within 90 days; this applies also to imports of spare parts from Mexico by importers that the Central Re- serve Bank considers as small enterprises). The commercial banks are authorized to provide ex- change for all import payments, provided that the per- missible credit terms are not exceeded, and, up to US$100 for each order, for noncommercial imports (such as medicines, various spare parts, and similar items). When suppliers abroad request payment in ad- vance for commodities covered by (1) or (3) above, a prior deposit of 10 per cent calculated on the value of the advance payment is required from the importer as a guarantee, but industrial and agricultural firms may be exempted. The deposit requirement is 100 per cent of the value of the advance payment for goods covered by (2) above; in this case the deposit serves as a guaran- tee. (Goods not covered by (2) and valued at US$500 or less are exempt from the 100 per cent deposit re- quirement.) Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment in full has been made to the exporter. Imports from other Central American countries, when covered by the Free Trade Agreement, are ex- empt from the exchange control regulations set for th above. Imports from Panama that are covered by the Free Trade Agreement of June 2, 1970 are also exempt. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty; the surcharge is not applied to certain industrial equipment and raw materials that are du ty free by virtue of the Industrial Incentives Law. Many nonessential goods are subject to a selective consumption tax. The rates of tax are 5, 10, 20, 25, and 30 per cent. Goods of Central American origin are exempt. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange, without prior authorization from the Central Reserve Bank, for medical and hospital costs abroad, subscriptions to foreign literature, correspondence courses, and memberships in professional clubs and societies. They are also authorized to sell foreign ex- change for travel for tourism, business, or health rea- sons, as indicated below. The basic exchange allocation which banks may make available for travel outside the Central American 168 area (interpreted to mean the Central American Com- mon Market) for tourism, business, or health reasons is, free from deposit requirements, the equivalent of US$600 a person a trip, on the basis of US$60 a person a day (US$300 for children under 16 on the basis of US$30 a day). In special cases, the Exchange Control Department may authorize amounts in excess of US$600 a person a trip, up to an additional US$1,200 (amounts in excess of US$300 up to an additional US$600 for children under 16), provided that a guaran- tee deposit in local currency corresponding to 20 per cent of the excess over the basic allocation is lodged with the Central Reserve Bank; the deposit is released upon the traveler's return. The Exchange Control De- partment may also authorize, in special cases, an addi- tional amount up to US$1,800 a person a trip (US$900 for children under 16) for trips exceeding 30 days, against payment of a 30 per cent guarantee deposit; this deposit also is released upon the traveler's return.3 The Exchange Control Department may authorize the sale of foreign exchange up to US$400 a month (up to US$200 a month for children under 16), for family remittances to Salvadoran nationals abroad, and up to US$300 a month for study abroad. Local banks are authorized to sell exchange in addition to the above quotas for study purposes upon presentation of evi- dence of installation expenses, tuition, and other ex- penses. For Salvadoran nationals traveling to Central Amer- ican countries, the commercial banks have been dele- gated authority to provide exchange up to the same amounts in Costa Rican colones, Honduran lempiras, Nicaraguan cordobas, or Guatemalan quetzales, or a cashier's check in Salvadoran colones (for payment through the Camara de Compensation Cen- troamericana). Requests for larger amounts must be submitted for approval to the Central Reserve Bank. International sea and air passages are subject to a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the ticket; official or diplomatic travel is exempt. Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered with the Exchange Control Department at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance com- panies may receive premiums in colones and periodi- cally obtain from the Exchange Control Department authorization to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign currencies de- rived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an au- thorized commercial bank. Travelers may take out 0 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Nonresident travelers may upon departure reconvert 0 200 into foreign currency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of foodstuffs and other items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the pro- ceeds of all exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be de- clared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in (2 200 in do- mestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modifi- cation, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transac- tions must be surrendered to the monetary authorities. Payments abroad representing capital movements re- quire exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. The entry of capital in the form of foreign investment may be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Reg- istration ensures (1) free remittance of net profits on foreign capital invested in industrial enterprises, enter- prises engaged in the extraction of nonrenewable natu- ral resources, and enterprises in the sphere of tourism; (2) the remittance of net profits of enterprises engaged in other activities up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be autho- rized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy); (3) repatriation of the proceeds from the total or partial liquidation of the enterprise (after payment of taxes) in proportion to the participation of foreign capital in the total capital; (4) remittance of the sales proceeds of shares and other instruments representing investments or participations, including capital gains; and (5) with respect to loans, interest and amortization as deter- mined at the time of registration. In the cases under (3) and (4) there is required, in addition to the approval of the Exchange Control Department, the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be regis- tered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department in order to enjoy the same facili- ties. The Exchange Control Department authorizes, with- out restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign cur- EL SALVADOR rency for the payment of interest and amortization on short-term loans from abroad; foreign loans with a maturity of up to one year must be authorized by the Central Reserve Bank, while foreign loans with a matu- rity of more than one year must be authorized by the Ministry of Economy. The Central Reserve Bank con- trols the short-term foreign liabilities of the commercial banks through a system of individual quotas. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets certain mini- mum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a shareholding interest. For pur- poses of this Decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citizens of one of the five countries of the Central American Common Market. Gold Gold coins of <£ 25, 0 50, 0 100, and 0 200 have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salva- dor for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are granted for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by jewelers' cooperatives acting on behalf of their mem- bers and other users. Changes during 1974 February 27. A trade agreement was signed with Hungary. May 2. A trade agreement and an economic coopera- tion agreement were signed with Romania. July 10. Basic exchange allocations for travel were reduced and the related guarantee deposit requirements were increased. The basic allocation for tourist, busi- ness, or health travel was reduced from US$2,100, at US$70 a day, to US$600, at US$60 a day, for each person 16 years or over. The deposit requirement for additional amounts was raised from 10 per cent to 20 or 30 per cent. July 19. The Central Reserve Bank added to the list of goods whose importation required at the time of import registration an advance deposit equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, all those goods that were still on the list of commodities requiring cash payment at the time of customs clearance. These were nonessen- tial items such as automobiles, furniture, domestic ap- pliances, and certain foodstuffs and textiles. July 19. The volume of import credit granted by domestic banks was frozen for imports of the private commercial sector; specified groups of commodities, mostly raw materials and capital goods, were exempt. The volume of domestic credit for the domestic whole- 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR saling and retailing of specified import items also was frozen. July 19. The volume of domestic bank credit granted to finance air fares was frozen. July. Exports of cement were suspended. August 23. A selective consumption tax was intro- duced on a wide range of nonessential goods, whether imported or domestically produced; they included food s tu f f s, cosmetics, household linen, jewelry, house- hold electrical appliances, and passenger automobiles. The rates of tax were 5, 10, 20, 25, and 30 per cent. Impor ts from countries of the Central American Com- mon Market were exempt, when specifically exempted from taxation under the relevant preferential treaties. September 16. A trade agreement was signed w i th Bulgaria. October 8. An Export Promotion Law came into force. November 19. Impor ts of many raw materials from countries outside the Central American Common Mar- ket were exempted from import duties and other import charges. November 19. An export tax on sugar was intro- duced. November 21. A trade agreement was signed with the U.S.S.R. NOTES 1 Four years when the goods originate in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in the previous calendar year, from which it receives loans with a ma tu r i ty of at least 20 years, or with which an integration trea ty is in force or w i th which El Salvador maintains eco- nomic ties. 2 Eighteen mon ths when the goods originate in countries w i th wh ich El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in the previous calendar year, from which it receives loans with a m a tu r i ty of at least 20 years, or with which an integration treaty is in force or with which El Salvador maintains eco- nomic ties. 3 Exchange up to the equivalent of US$3,000 (in excess of US$600) for specific clinic or hospital expenses abroad may be exempted f rom the guarantee deposit requirement by the Exchange Control Department. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The currency of Equatorial Guinea is the Equatorial Guinean Peseta, which is issued by the People's Bank of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea (the central bank) and is defined as equivalent to 0.0126953 gram of fine gold. No par value has been established for the Equato- rial Guinean peseta. The currency is at par with the Spanish peseta, which is Equatorial Guinea's interven- tion currency. Rates for other currencies are based on those in the Madrid exchange market. There are no forward exchange facilities. Exchange taxes of 17.5 per cent, 25 per cent, and 35 per cent are levied on certain transfers abroad. Administration of Control The People's Bank is in charge of exchange control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the People's Bank or authorized commercial banks abroad; the only authorized bank is the National Deposit and Development Bank. Import and export licenses are is- sued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce in the Ministry of Commerce; import licenses also re- quire the approval of the President. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain must be made through pay- ments agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dol- lars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All commercial imports require an import license. Licenses normally are issued within the framework of an annual import program. They do not entitle import- ers to the necessary foreign exchange until they have been approved by the President, after which, in princi- ple, exchange is automatically made available upon the arrival of the goods in Equatorial Guinea; in practice, certain delays have arisen. A state trading organization, INFOGE, has a monopoly over the importation of phar- maceuticals, flour, rice, sugar, salt, olive oil, jute bags, cement, and all government requirements. Certain im- ports from the People's Republic of China are made by state enterprises only. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles require the prior approval of the People's Bank, which for specified pur- poses and up to specified amounts has delegated its approval authority to the authorized commercial bank. At present, the approval of most payments and trans- fers for current international transactions by the pri- vate sector is suspended. Residents1 are in principle granted foreign exchange up to the equivalent of EG Ptas 10,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad. The standard allocation for business travel is the equivalent of EG Ptas 2,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of EG Ptas 50,000 a trip. For study abroad, foreign exchange is granted to cover tuition and living expenses; nonresidential students are allowed the equivalent of EG Ptas 5,000 a month for living expenses. In principle, the transfer of wages and salaries by alien residents, and of professional earnings as well as dividends by all residents, is freely permitted up to 60 per cent of taxable earnings when the transfer is made to a country with which a payments agreement is in force, and up to 40 per cent for other countries, pro- vided that annual earnings do not exceed EG Ptas 50,000. Larger transfers are permitted when annual earnings exceed EG Ptas 50,000. Transfers abroad of professional earnings by nonresidents are freely permitted, but any amounts in excess of 60 per cent of taxable earnings are subject to a transfer tax of 35 per cent on the amount transferred. There are special arrangements for the transfer of earnings of Nigerian workers employed in Equatorial Guinea. In addition, nonresidents as well as nationals residing temporarily abroad are permitted to withdraw up to EG Ptas 5,000 a month from their savings accounts for remittance abroad. The transfer of net investment income, whether by residents or nonresidents, is subject to a tax of 35 per cent of the amount transferred. Subject to this require- ment, transfers are fu l ly permitted. In the event of at least 50 per cent of such net investment income being reinvested in approved projects in Equatorial Guinea, the tax is 17.5 per cent of the amount remitted. Trans- fers abroad in respect of patents, trademarks, and roy- alties are permitted fully, subject to a tax of 25 per cent of the amount remitted. Travelers may take out EG Ptas 3,000 a person in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Both specific and general export licenses are granted; the latter are available only to registered exporters. All export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the People's Bank or the authorized commercial bank. The Chamber of Agricul- ture, Commerce, and Industry has a monopoly over most agricultural exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered to the People's Bank or the authorized commer- cial bank. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA banknotes and coins but the import of domestic cur- rency by travelers is prohibited. Capital All imports and exports of capital require approval, and the latter are not normally permitted. Capital re- ceipts in foreign currency must be surrendered to the People's Bank or the authorized commercial bank. The transfer abroad of funds from the sale of fixed assets and financial assets by alien residents or by nonresi- dents is permitted as follows: 50 per cent of the total amount realized net of taxes may be remitted abroad immediately and the balance in 24 equal mon th ly in- stallments. The sale of real estate, however, requires prior approval by the Government. Residents, as well as nonresidents living in Equatorial Guinea, are prohib- ited from engaging in borrowing or lending with non- residents. Gold All purchases and sales of minted gold and gold bars are centralized in the People's Bank, which also has a monopoly over the import and export of minted gold and gold bars. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1970 in denominations of EG Ptas 250, 500, 750, 1,000, and 5,000; these are legal tender. Except for these coins and jewelry, residents are not permitted to hold gold. Changes during 1974 No significant changes took place. NOTE 1 Residents are defined as persons remaining in Equatorial Guinea for more than six mon ths in a calendar year or for more than six mon ths in two consecutive calendar years. 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Dollar, corresponding to Eth$2.07237 = US$1, and Ethiopia avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The National Bank of Ethiopia (the central bank) does not deal with the public; its dealings in U.S. dollars with the autho- rized banks take place at the official rate of Eth$2.07 = US$1. Authorized banks in dealing with the public must observe this official rate for the U.S. dollar and prescribed commission charges of 0.75 per cent buying and 2.25 per cent selling; the resulting effective buying and selling rates are Eth$2.05448 and Eth$2.11658 per US$1, and are applied also in the National Bank's deal- ings with the Government and certain public sector entities. Spot exchange rates for other currencies are based on the National Bank's official rate for the U.S. dollar and the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in European exchange markets; a charge equivalent to about 1 per cent, additional to the prescribed commis- sions, is payable for transactions in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Authorized banks may freely un- dertake forward exchange transactions. Exporters may cover their exchange risk in Ethiopia or abroad. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks and authorized dealers under the control of the National Bank. All payments abroad require licenses issued by the Exchange Con- troller, whose office is a department of the National Bank; all exports are licensed by the Exchange Control- ler to ensure the surrender of the foreign exchange pro- ceeds. The Minister of Commerce, Industry, and Tourism has statutory authority to prohibit, restrict, or regulate imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in convert- ible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may, subject to exchange control ap- proval, open nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in foreign currencies at authorized banks. Balances in foreign currency accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident ac- counts require prior approval, except those between foreign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal and its overseas territo- ries, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With minor exceptions, imports of passenger automobiles with an engine capacity of over 1,300 cubic centimeters are prohibited. No import licenses are required. How- ever, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convert- ible currency that may be requested. Payment is nor- mally authorized by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis; however, goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements (about 100 items, mostly consumer goods) may not be financed on an acceptance basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. In- visibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may in principle remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual taxable earned income, provided that they have resided in Ethiopia for less than six years; exceptions may be made, particularly with regard to the time limit, for foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the Ethiopian Govern- ment or with certain other public and private institu- tions, and who have an employment contract specifically entitling them to remit a stated percentage of their earnings, provided this aspect of the contract has been approved by the National Bank. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for maintenance of bona fide dependents, education of chil- dren, medical care, and premiums on insurance policies taken out before April 2, 1962; applications are consid- ered on their merits. Subject to proper provision having been made for local taxation and for a reserve pre- scribed by the Commercial Code, foreign companies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Persons traveling abroad are in principle allowed foreign exchange equivalent to Eth$75 a day for a maxi- mum period of six weeks in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$600 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$420 a year for those under 16 if the journey is made for pleasure. Travelers may take with them a maximum of Eth$lOO in Ethiopian banknotes. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal and its overseas territories, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of most cereals to any destination other than the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas and of most live- stock to any destination also are prohibited.l All com- modities require export licenses from the Exchange Controller and some require in addition the approval of specified public bodies. When applying for a license, an exporter must specify the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank within six months and that export pro- ceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is freely permitted. Reconversion of Ethio- pian dollars must be supported by documentary evi- dence of prior exchange of foreign currency. Capital2 Controls over capital movements are designed to re- strict undesirable outflows, to preclude an unwarranted accumulation of external debt, and to keep the authori- ties informed of the country's external debt position. All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Exchange control permits are not required, but registration of capital inflows with the exchange control authorities establishes evidence of re- ceipt, which is required for any later repatriation. There is no discrimination regarding the currencies in which foreign investments are accepted. Special concessions are made to approved new enterprises involving an investment of at least Eth$200,000 financed by domes- tic or foreign capital: these concessions include exemp- tion from income taxes for a period of five years, admission of imports of machinery free of duty, and a guarantee of permission to foreign investors to remit abroad earned profits after taxation. Upon liquidation, transfer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in any currency, provided that the capital inflow has been registered; for large amounts, transfers may be phased over a reasonable period of time. Foreign physical or juridical persons require gov- ernment permission to purchase land in Ethiopia; such permission is not normally withheld. Transfers of emi- grants' allowances, legacies, and savings of foreign em- ployees upon retirement are in principle permitted up 174 to the equivalent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subsequent 12-month pe- riod. Repatriation of nonregistered capital is subject to the same limits. Borrowing abroad requires exchange control ap- proval and is restricted. Normally, evidence must be presented that all possibilities for domestic borrowing have been exhausted. External borrowing by the Cen- tral Government and public sector agencies requires parliamentary approval, as does private sector borrow- ing abroad when covered by a government guarantee. Authorized banks may freely place their funds abroad, except on fixed-term deposit. They need the prior ap- proval of the National Bank to overdraw their accounts with foreign correspondents, to borrow funds abroad, or to accept deposits in foreign currency. Gold Special commemorative gold coins which are legal tender, as provided in Legal Notice No. 318 of 1966 and Legal Notice No. 422 of 1972, are offered for sale in Ethiopia and abroad by the Commercial Bank of Ethiopia to residents and nonresidents and may be ex- ported by travelers. The ownership of personal jewelry and articles of adornment of which gold or platinum forms a part also is permitted. Unless specifically au- thorized by the Minister of Mines,3 the possession or custody, in a quan t i ty in excess of 50 ounces, of raw or refined gold or platinum or of gold or platinum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion constitutes an offense. Certain mined gold is sold by the Treasury to the Na- tional Bank at a price equivalent to Eth$87.50 (US$42.22) a fine ounce of purely refined gold. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses issued by the National Bank on behalf of the Ministry of Mines. Such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users; those for the import of gold for industrial pur- poses are issued to registered importers on satisfactory evidence that the gold is destined for direct use in in- dustry. Changes during 1974 March. A ban was imposed on the export of live cattle, sheep, and goats. Prior commitments, however, could continue to be met. The ban was lifted in January 1975. October 4. With minor exceptions, imports of passen- ger automobiles with an engine capacity of over 1,700 cubic centimeters were prohibited. On October 24 the ban was extended to virtually all cars with a capacity of over 1,300 cubic centimeters; prior commitments, however, could continue to be met. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NOTES 1 The prohibition on livestock exports was terminated in January 1975. 2 All private banks and all insurance companies were na- tionalized with effect from January 1, 1975, and 72 industrial and business enterprises were nationalized on February 3, 1975. 3 In January 1975 a Ministry of National Resources Devel- opment was established. It included a Mining Department. ETHIOPIA 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System Fiji has not yet established a par value for its cur- rency, the Fiji dollar, with the Fund. A central rate of F$0.800000 = US$1 has been established, and Fiji avails itself of wider margins. The Central Monetary Authority provides official quotations only for the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention currency. For tele- graphic transfers, the commercial banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were FS0.7915 and FS0.8086, respectively, per US$1. Fiji formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on August 4, 1972. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Monetary Authority, acting as agent of the Govern- ment. The Monetary Authority delegates to authorized dealers (only banks are authorized dealers in Fiji) the authority to approve normal import payments. Except with the specific permission of the Monetary Author- ity, residents of Fiji are required to offer for sale to an authorized dealer all foreign currencies they receive.1 The Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Coopera- tives is responsible for the issue of import licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Cus- toms. Prescription of Currency Fiji has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Transactions with Sterling Area countries as well as non-Sterling Area countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements with residents of any country may be made in Fiji currency through an External Account or in any foreign currency. The prescribed manner of payment for exports to any destination outside Fiji is payment in Fiji currency from an External Account or in any foreign currency. All payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident2 may maintain an External Account in Fiji currency or a foreign currency account with an authorized bank; such accounts may be opened without the specific approval of the Central Monetary Author- ity. These accounts may be credited freely with interest payable on the account, payments from other External Accounts, the proceeds of sale of foreign currency or foreign coin by the account holder, and Fiji currency notes which the account holder brought into Fiji or 176 acquired by debit to an External Account or by the sale of foreign currency in the country during a temporary visit; in addition, External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents for which either a general or specific authority has been given. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of Fiji, trans- fers to other External Accounts, payments in cash in Fiji, and purchases of foreign exchange for travel pur- poses. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited, and im- ports originating in the CMEA countries3 require indi- vidual licenses. Imports of most goods are free under open general license when originating in countries other than those mentioned. However, import prohibitions are imposed on a few commodities from all sources, mainly for security, health, or moral reasons. Certain commodities can be imported only under specific li- censes, including passenger automobiles, butter, flour, tea, sharps, cement, and gold, and licenses for some of these items are issued restrictively. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of documentary evidence to authorized dealers. A specific exchange license is not required. Authorized banks may authorize payments for goods which have been imported either under a specific import license or open general license. Autho- rized banks may authorize advance payments for im- ports only if the goods have already left the port of shipment; in all other cases advance payment requires the permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in any country (except Rhodesia) are permitted either under a dele- gated authority to banks or, where large amounts or nondelegated payments are involved, upon application to the Central Monetary Authority. Payments may be made freely for all bona fide current transactions. Resi- dents of Fiji traveling to other countries are entitled to a foreign currency travel allowance for private or busi- ness travel up to the equivalent of F$600 a journey, or up to the equivalent of F$60 a person a day (subject to a maximum of F$2,000 for each 12-month period, but F$4,000 a person may be accumulated for each 24-month period). In addition, each traveler may take with him F$50 in Fiji currency, and the equivalent of F$200 in other currencies. Additional foreign currency required for travel purposes is granted in exceptional circumstances, on application to the Central Monetary Authority, provided the Authority is satisfied that the additional amount is required to meet expenditures such as those related to illness. Travelers may not take ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution out more than F$50 in domestic currency notes and F$l in domestic coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters are obliged to collect the proceeds of ex- ports within six months of the date of exportation of the goods from Fiji, irrespective of the currency in which the payment is being made. All foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Exporters may not grant credit to a nonresident buyer in excess of six months without specific permission. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Specific licenses are required only for exports of rice, sugar, wheat bran, meal of copra, certain lumber, scrap metals, and pearl shell and turtle shell. Irrespective of any export licens- ing requirements, however, exporters are required to produce an export permit for commercial consignment of all goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$ 1,000 and for private consignment of goods with an f.o.b. value exceeding F$2,000; this permit is required for exchange control purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to au- thorized dealers, irrespective of the currency con- cerned. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in Fiji notes, other Sterling Area currencies, or non-Sterling Area currencies. Resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies to an authorized dealer within 30 days of return. Capital The inflow of capital is unrestricted but must be registered with the Central Monetary Authority, unless the recipient is an authorized dealer. Foreign invest- ment in Fiji normally is expected to be financed from a nonresident source. Such foreign investment may be given "approved status," which guarantees the right to repatriate dividends and capital. All capital outflows are subject to prior approval. Capital transfers by resi- dents to finance direct investments require the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority and are normally permitted only where benefits will accrue to Fiji within a reasonably short term. Banks require the approval of the Central Monetary Authority before any loans are granted to a company or branch in Fiji (other than a bank) which is by any means controlled by persons resident outside Fiji or by individuals desig- nated as nonresidents; however, banks do not require such approval to lend up to F$ 1,000—for any period and any purpose—to individual nonresident custom- ers. Banks may not lend foreign currency to any resi- dent of Fiji without the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority, and nonbank residents require specific permission from the Central Monetary Authority before they may borrow foreign currency FIJI from anyone other than an authorized bank in Fiji or from any source outside Fiji. The transfer of inheri- tances and dowries which are due to nonresidents is permitted, as is the transfer of the sales proceeds of a house owned by a nonresident. Residents of Fiji are also allowed to make cash gifts equivalent to FS300 a donor a year to nonresidents; additional funds are per- mitted in compassionate cases. Emigrants may take out the equivalent of up to F$30,000 on departure; the balance of their assets may be remitted in three equal installments over the following three years. Residents are not permitted to purchase foreign cur- rency to acquire foreign currency securities without the prior approval of the Central Monetary Authority. The purchase of personal real property outside Fiji is not permitted. Portfolio investment in Fiji by nonresidents requires approval by the Central Monetary Authority if payment is made from a nonresident source; the pro- ceeds of the sale or realization of such investment qual- ify for repatriation. Banks may freely borrow abroad and accept deposits from nonresidents. The net foreign liabilities of banks (that is, the positive difference between balances due to banks abroad and balances due from banks abroad) are subject to a cash reserve requirement of 1.5 per cent. Gold Residents may freely hold gold coins but not gold bullion in Fiji. The export of gold coins requires the specific permission of the Central Monetary Authority. Gold imports from all sources require a specific import license issued by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Cooperatives; they are restricted to authorized gold dealers. Gold coins are free of customs duty and fiscal tax, while gold bullion is exempt from customs du ty but is subject to a fiscal tax of 7V2 per cent. Gold jewelry is subject to a fiscal duty of 10 per cent but does not require any license when valued at less than F$200. Authorized jewelry manufacturers are entitled to re- bate to the extent of duty paid on gold imports if they prove that imported gold has been manufactured into jewelry in Fiji. Exports of gold jewelry do not require licenses and are free of export duty. All newly mined gold is sold in Australia at free market prices. Gold exports are subject to a 2 per cent export duty. A commemorative gold coin of FS100 has been is- sued. It is legal tender but does not circulate. Changes during 1974 January 1. A single-line customs tariff came into effect. Preferential duties on goods of Commonwealth origin were abolished and many specific duties were replaced by ad valorem duties. Gold coins became free of import duty and fiscal tax. Gold bullion also became free of import duty but was subject to a fiscal tax of 7Y2 per cent. January 29. Imports of tea required specific licenses. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FIJI February 25. A central rate of F$0.800000 = US$1 was established, corresponding to 0.920828 gram of fine gold per Fiji dollar or SDR 1.03619 = F$l. Fiji availed itself of wider margins. The fixed exchange rate for sterling of £ stg. 1 = F$ 1.88 was discontinued. The Central Monetary Authority henceforth quoted fixed intervention rates for the U.S. dollar and daily dealing rates for sterling; previously, it quoted fixed interven- tion rates for sterling and dealing rates, which could vary daily, for the U.S. dollar. March 28. Exports of rice and sugar required specific licenses. April 10. The requirement of individual import li- censes for goods originating in the People's Republic of China was abolished. April 11. Imports of passenger automobiles with an engine capacity of 2,000 cubic centimeters or more were prohibited with minor exceptions. A reduced quota for 1974 of 1,500 units was set on imports of automobiles under 2,000 cubic centimeters. Imports of light com- mercial vehicles and heavy earth-moving equipment were made conditional on genuine requirement by the end-user. Imports of electric water heaters were re- stricted to those for industrial use. Import duties on air conditioners were increased. August 2. Exchange for travel purposes in excess of F$600 a person a trip could no longer be approved by authorized banks and applications had to be referred to the Central Monetary Authority. August 2. Restrictions were imposed on the transfer of emigrants' assets. The allocation upon departure was set at the equivalent of F$30,000. August 2. The annual exchange allocation for cash gifts was lowered from F$500 to F$300 for each donor. August 2. All private capital inf lows received by non- bank residents had to be registered with the Central Monetary Au thor i ty. October 10. The issue of a legal tender commemora- tive gold coin of F$100 was announced. November 12. The Central Monetary Agency ceased to quo te sterling officially but was prepared to provide a dealing rate in that currency if requested to do so, a facility similar to that offered for the Australian dollar. NOTES 1 Under Fiji's exchange control regulations, foreign curren- cies are all currencies other than the Fiji dollar. All foreign currencies are regarded as specified currencies and hence must norma l ly be offered for sale to an authorized bank. 2 A nonresident is a person or f i rm whose coun t ry of nor- mal domicile or established residence is a country outside Fiji. As regards individuals, a resident of Fiji is a person who either has lived or intends to continue l iv ing in Fiji for a period of at least three years. 3 The open general license lists the countries to which it is not applicable as Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Poland, Ro- mania, and U .S .S .R. 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per Finnish Markka. A central rate of Fmk 3.90 = US$1, has been established and Finland avails itself of wider margins. However, on June 4, 1973 the authorities ceased to observe the lower exchange rate margin, and the upper margin was suspended on January 8, 1974. The Bank of Finland's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, on Decem- ber 31, 1974 were Fmk 3.542 and Fmk 3.560 per US$1. The rates for the U.S. dollar are applicable also to clearing dollars. Buying and selling rates for the clearing ruble are based on the Gosbank's rates for the U.S. dollar against the ruble. Quotations for other cur- rencies are based on market cross rates. The Bank of Finland quotes daily forward rates for the U.S. dollar and the U.S.S.R. ruble at which autho- rized banks may cover their contracts with resident customers relating to any type of transaction permitted by the exchange control regulations; otherwise, for- ward premiums and discounts reflect international cross rates. Authorized banks may deal among them- selves, with resident customers, and with nonresident banks in U.S. dollars and other convertible or exter- nally convertible currencies. Forward transactions may be concluded freely for periods not exceeding 12 months and the Bank of Finland may in special cases grant cover to the authorized banks for up to 24 months. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating authority to the authorized ex- change dealers (mainly commercial banks). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordi- nate to the Ministry of Trade and Industry, the Licens- ing Office, which is headed by a Licensing Board composed of government officials, including a repre- sentative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries1 and the convertible currency countries (all others). Settle- ments with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement (rubles for the U.S.S.R. and Romania, Finnish markkaa for the People's Republic of China, and U.S. dollars in all other cases). Settle- ments with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convert- ible Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Convertible Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Capi- tal Accounts. Convertible Accounts are held by nonresidents in Finnish markkaa or in convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts transferred from other Convertible Accounts, Finnish currency received direct from a foreign bank or imported into Finland, amounts which the bank would be authorized to transfer abroad, amounts of convert- ible currency received by the bank, and interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred abroad freely to any country. Restricted Accountsare held by residents of countries with which Finland has bilateral payments arrange- ments, are designated according to the holder's country of residence, and may be held in Finnish markkaa or the appropriate bilateral agreement currency. They may be credited by an authorized bank with amounts with which the bank may credit a Convertible Account, amounts transferred from Restricted Accounts related to the same country, Finnish currency received from a bank in the country indicated on the account, amounts which the bank is authorized to receive to the credit of a Restricted Account related to the country indicated on the account, currency surrendered to the bank and restricted to the country indicated on the account, and interest accrued on funds held in the accounts. These accounts may be debited freely and balances may be transferred freely to the bilateral country concerned. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident ac- counts. The assignment of a Capital Account to an- other nonresident and the transfer abroad of funds held in such an account may be effected only with the per- mission of the Bank of Finland. A monetary institution may credit a Capital Account with the purchase price of assets other than foreign securities bought from the holder by a resident, funds received as an inheritance or on the basis of a will, redemption payments and interest on matured bonds and debentures quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange, rent on property owned in Finland by the holder of the account, proceeds from other assets belonging to the holder of the account and managed by the monetary institution with which the account is held, the amount of a loan based on a con- tract granting to a nonresident a loan not exceeding Fmk 50,000 in value and to be utilized in Finland, and interest accrued on funds held in the account. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for noncom- mercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the account holder, and funds in Capital Accounts may be used for capital payments for account of the account holder when the transaction does not require 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND authorization or is authorized for transferable funds. The Bank of Finland automatically grants permission for transfers abroad of funds deposited in Capital Ac- counts to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year and who continues to do so. approved provided that it is considered normal in the traditions of the trade. Under a temporary scheme, however, payment for specified consumer goods must be made, or the markka equivalent of the purchase price deposited with the Bank of Finland, before the goods are released by the customs authorities. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license from the mu l t i- lateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments agreements),2 provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area. Specified consumer durables, however, are temporarily subject to ad hoc import licensing, irrespective of origin. Certain other goods may be imported f rom the mu l t i la te ral area un- der a global quo ta system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of 11 value quotas for specified commod i ty groups; no indus- trial goods are restricted by global quotas. The total value of the global quotas for 1974 was less than 1 per cent of total 1974 impor ts. Ano ther g roup of goods also requires an ind iv idual license when impor ted f rom the multilateral area; these are set out in the discretionary licensing l is t, wh ich comprises on ly agr icu l tural com- modities, coal, coke, and petroleum produc ts. Thus, the only commodities still subject to quan t i ta t ive restric- t ion for the mu l t i la te ral area are agricultural commodi- ties, fue ls, and u nw r o u g ht gold and silver; the consumer durab le goods men t ioned above are licensed free ly. Impo rt licenses are not requ ired for most commodi- ties or ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom the U.S.S.R., and for many commodities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries; all commodities liberal- ized for import f rom the bilateral area are among those already liberalized for import from the multilateral area.3 Other impo r ts from the b i la teral countries are adm i t ted under licenses up to quo tas provided for un- der the relevant trade agreement. All imports of com- modities originating in countries classified ne i ther in the mu l t i la teral area nor in the bilateral area requ ire individual licenses. The State Granary is the main agency for the impo rt of whea t, rye, bar ley, oats, and products of these grains for human consump t ion, but individual importers may also import these commodi- ties under license. There is a state monopoly for im- ports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted by authorized banks for all per- mitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if requ ired, and the original commer- cial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their impo r ta t ion. Payment for impo r ts must be made w i th in six mon ths a f ter the arr ival of goods in the coun t ry; if the period of credit exceeds six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of F in land but as a rule is 180 Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions (relating to transport and insur- ance), residents are permitted to conclude transactions invo lv ing current invisibles with nonresidents. Pay- ments in respect of authorized invisibles are not re- stricted. The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to a maximum allowance or other condi- tions; for amounts in excess of the standard allowances and for purposes for which no standard allowances have been set, exchange licenses are granted freely by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. For minor payments, authorized banks may grant foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 300 a calendar mon th for each remitter. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 3,000 a trip. A Finnish traveler abroad may also w i thd raw foreign exchange on a bank account pass- book or check issued by a Finnish monetary institution, provided that the utilized amount of his travel alloca- tion does not exceed a total of Fmk 3,000. A resident traveler may use a credit card abroad for travel services and make the payment af ter return. Nonresident travel- ers may take out Fmk 3,000 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins de- clared upon entry. Resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic currency, or any combination of these, up to Fmk 3,000. For all types of travel, bona fide applications for additional amounts of foreign ex- change are approved by the Bank of Finland. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export li- censes are required only for exports of scrap metal. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, wh ich is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Certain exports to countries not in the multilateral area are restricted. Foreign exchange acquired through com- mod i ty exports need not be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. Exporters are required to repatriate their foreign exchange pro- ceeds w i th in eight days of collection, which may then be held in a foreign currency account w i th an autho- rized bank in Finland or converted in to domestic cur- rency. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts derived from current in- visibles do not have to be surrendered but must be repatriated within eight days of collection. The ex- change may be held in a foreign currency account in Finland. Any unutilized foreign banknotes and travel- ers checks must be repatriated, but these are exempt from the surrender requirement up to Fmk 3,000 for each resident holder. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheri- tances are transferred automatically up to Fmk 100,000 for each beneficiary, while authorization by the Bank of Finland is required for larger amounts. Persons who during the last calendar year have resided outside Finland and continue to do so may transfer abroad their assets in Finland in one lump sum, subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Finland, which generally is granted. Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible currencies or by debiting a Convertible Account, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki Stock Exchange. When the se- curities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatri- ate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible currency. The acquisition with funds classified as Capital Ac- counts of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the stock exchange is also permitted automatically, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be transferred abroad without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities involving nonresident interests require ap- proval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Convertible Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The regulations concerning inward direct investment are as follows: All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permis- sion liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exceptionally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of au- thorized direct investments is free. Foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the share capital of an enterprise require the approval of the Council of State. This approval is usually granted liberally. Direct foreign investment in the forest and mining industries and in certain traditionally regulated activities is not normally permitted. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets, including property owned FINLAND abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property must be repatriated under the general rule of repatriation. Outward transfers of capital by residents require individual approval; investment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. Au- thorized banks, however, are given permission to pur- chase specified foreign and Finnish securities issued abroad. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange allow- ance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person, in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. There is an automatic exchange allowance of Fmk 1,000 a calendar month for each donor for gifts and contributions to nonresidents. Foreign currency borrowing by Finnish residents, in the form of short-term or medium-term financial cred- its or by bond issues abroad, requires the specific ap- proval of the Bank of Finland, which exercises surveillance over the terms and timing. Lending to non- residents is normally restricted to export credits. No permission is needed for customary export credits. Medium-term and long-term borrowing abroad, other than borrowing by the State or import credits, is sub- ject to a selective deposit requirement, the terms of which are set ad hoc by the Bank of Finland. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form at home. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for im- ports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. The global quota list contains a quota for industrial gold. Commercial imports of articles con- taining gold require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; for most such articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commodities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usually sufficient. Changes during 1974 January 1. The import regulations for 1974 entered into force. The global quota program consisted of 11 quotas amounting to Fmk 57.2 million. January L The free trade agreement with the EEC, signed on October 5, 1973, entered into force. January 21. A law concerning export levies entered into force. It empowered the Government to collect export levies where export prices rose exceptionally as a result of marked changes in the rates of exchange, serious disturbances in international price levels, or other comparable developments. January 22. The Bank of Finland cancelled its deci- sion of September 12, 1973, to restrict the acceptance of advance payments for exports of wood and articles made of wood. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND February 2. A law for the safeguard ing of Finland's external trade and g row th entered in to force. It pro- vided the Government w i th powers to in troduce import ceilings and tar iff quotas. The M in is try of Finance was empowered to introduce special equalization charges or supp lemen ta ry customs du t ies on impor ts in order to counter dump ing or ma rket d i s rup t ion. (This enab l ing law was not invoked, however.) February 8. The Bank of Finland issued regulations concerning domestic credit for new exports, aimed at s t reng then ing the competitiveness of new export indus- tries. February 19. A law concerning price equalization and price freeze entered in to force. The Government was empowered to levy price equalization paymen ts on imports of specified consumer durables. The maximum perm i t ted levy was 25 per cent of the "price equaliza- tion value" of the goods concerned, to be retained for one year at mos t. (This enab l ing law was not invoked, however .) April 2. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports from the U.S.S.R. were reduced to the levels applicable to the mu l t i la te ral area. April 26. An Agreement on the Reciprocal Removal of Obstacles to Trade was signed w i th Bulgaria. Similar agreements were signed w i th Hunga ry on May 2 and w i th Czechoslovakia on September 19. The agreements provided, among other things, for the progressive re- moval of Finnish duties on indus tr ial products (gener- ally by Ju ly 1, 1977) and for the relaxation of Finnish quan t i ta t ive restrictions to the levels applicable to the mu l t i la teral area (generally also by Ju ly 1, 1977). The agreements were subject to ra t if ica t ion and came in to force on Janua ry 1, 1975. May 25. The temporary import licensing system for certain consumer durable goods, introduced on Au- gust 29, 1973, ceased to be applied restrictively. It was retained for surveillance purposes only. May 30. Finland signed the OECD Declaration on Impor ts, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. July 1. The Government announced its in ten t ion to sterilize Fmk 300 million of the export earnings of the wood processing industries. An implementing agree- ment was concluded w i th the Central Association of Forestry Indus tr ies on August 15. It provided that the Fmk 300 m i l l ion would be raised in three equal install- men ts at the end of October and December 1974 and February 1975; half of the proceeds would be returned to the depos i t ing companies not later than by the end of 1975, while the remainder would be used for speci- fied purposes. August 1. The Bank of F in land began to quo te for- ward rates for the ruble. September 12. A new five-year agreement governing the exchange of goods and payments with the U.S.S.R. du r ing the years 1976-80 was signed. The swing credit was increased. NOTES 1 At the end of 1974 F in land had bilateral paymen ts agree- men ts w i th Bu lgar ia, People's Repub l ic of China, Czechoslo- vak ia, German Democratic Repub l ic, Hung a ry, Poland, Roman ia, and U .S .S .R. However, se t t lemen ts w i th Czecho- s lovak ia and Poland were exper imen ta l ly placed on a fu l ly conve r t ib le basis for the year 1970 and these arrangements have since been con t inu ed. 2 The exceptions are Repub l ic of China, No r th Korea, Mongo l ia, Rhodesia, No r th V ie t -Nam, and Repub l ic of V i e t -N am. 3 Q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions on impo r ts of U.S.S.R. origin have been reduced to the levels app l icab le to goods originat- ing in the mu l t i la teral area. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.160000 gram of fine gold per French Franc, and France avails itself of wider mar- gins. Since January 19, 1974, no predetermined mar- gins have been maintained between the French franc and any other currencies.1 On December 31, 1974 the rate for the U.S. dollar was F 4.445 = US$1. Fixed conversion rates in terms of French francs apply to the currencies of the following countries and territories: the Operations Account countries,2 the French Overseas Departments,3 the French Overseas Territories (except the Territory of the Afars and the Issas), and the Condominium of the New Hebrides. These conversion rates have been maintained at pre-August 15, 1971 levels and are applied irrespective of the nature of payments or receipts. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal spot and forward with their correspondents in foreign markets in all curren- cies. Nonbank residents may purchase forward ex- change only in respect of imports and of certain merchanting transactions, but their fo rwa rd sales of foreign currency are free, whether these represent ex- port proceeds or other receipts. On the import side, forward cover is available for some commodities for 6 to 12 months, and for all others for 3 months. On the export side, an underlying contract is required and cover is available for the full ma tur i ty of the export contract or up to 1 month after the date on which the proceeds are collected. France formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applicable in all territories of the French Republic except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guade- loupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion), and f ive of the six Overseas Territories (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Fu tuna Is- lands, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to the Principality of Monaco or the Operations Account countries;2 payments between France and these countries are free of restriction on the French side and take place at fixed exchange rates. All other countries are considered foreign countries for ex- change control purposes;4 all payments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. The Condominium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for exchange control pur- poses. For imports and exports of gold, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries. Certain controls that are independent of the ex- change control regulations are maintained over inward and outward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these transaction controls are not applicable to the Operations Account countries or Monaco, and those over direct investment do not apply to member countries of the EEC. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to (1) the Operations Account countries and (2) Algeria, Guinea, the Khmer Republic, Laos, the Malagasy Republic, Mauritania, Morocco, Tunisia, North Viet-Nam, the Republic of Viet-Nam, and the Condominium of the New Hebri- des.5 Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Ministry of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with foreign countries. It is in charge of exchange control and of all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to bor- rowing abroad, unless these matters relate to real estate companies, when the Bank of France screens applica- tions and notifications. The Directorate of the Treasury also evaluates the balance of payments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the au thor i ty to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The material execution of all transfers has been delegated to authorized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls, within the framework of commercial policy directives given by the Director- ate of Foreign Economic Relations; the Director- ate-General also issues import and export licenses, is responsible for any legal problems arising from the exchange regulations, and in particular handles any litigation relating thereto. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the compe- tent m in is t ry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industrial and Scientific Development has certain responsibilities in 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to technical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Operations Account countries may be made in French f rancs or the currency issued by any in s t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury.6 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs. Settlements w i th Algeria, Morocco, and Tuni- sia, however, norma l ly take place in French f rancs only. Importers and exporters are free to invoice in any currency. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be free ly opened by an authorized bank for nonres iden ts, inc lud- ing French nationals (other than French officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All ove rd ra f ts and advances on nonres iden t-he ld f r a nc ac- coun ts are subject to general or specific permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited w i th (1) the franc proceeds of the spot or forward sale of foreign currencies on the French exchange ma rket by a nonres iden t; (2) the f ranc proceeds of the sale of foreign bankno tes to an authorized bank by a nonresi- dent bank or traveler; (3) the f r anc equ iva lent of an authorized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign marke t; (4) French bankno tes (and those of the Operations Account countries) mailed direct f rom abroad to the main off ice of the Bank of France by an authorized bank's foreign correspondents; (5) t rans fe rs from other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) any autho- rized payment by a resident to a nonres iden t, inc lud ing interest on balances in Foreign Accounts in Francs; (7) the sales proceeds, income, and amortization f rom French and foreign securities held in a foreign dossier in France, including securities accruing in France to a nonres ident by donation or inheritance; (8) l iqu ida t ion proceeds of nonresident-held direct investments7 or real estate; and (9) the proceeds of the sale, th rough the in termed iary of a no ta ry public, of real estate belonging to nonresidents. These accounts may be freely debited for (1) spot purchases of any foreign currency on the exchange market by a nonresident; (2) the purchase by a nonres ident of foreign banknotes or w i thd rawa ls in French banknotes; (3) the equivalent in f rancs of arbi- trage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank; (4) French bankno tes (and those of Operations Account countries) mailed by authorized banks direct to the ir foreign correspondents; (5) transfers to other Foreign Accounts in Francs; (6) approved direct invest- ment in France by nonresidents;7 (7) purchases of real estate f rom residents, through the in termed iary of a notary public; (8) purchases in France of French or foreign securities; (9) interest on and repayment of 184 loans granted by residents; and (10) any payment by a nonresident to a resident. If French f rancs accruing to a nonresident are not transferable, or not immediately transferable, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in francs in the name of the beneficiary; balances up to F 50,000 that existed on August 9, 1973 have been released. The unrem i t ta- ble funds of em igran ts of French na t iona l i ty must be retained in resident accounts (comptes interieurs) until they become nonres iden ts (i.e., un t il they have stayed in a foreign coun try for two years); emigrants of foreign n a t ion a l i ty become nonresidents immediately and the re fo re may take out all of the ir assets upon depar- ture. Imports and Import Payments Goods o r ig ina t ing in and shipped f rom other parts of the French Franc Area or f rom certain other countries that are accorded privileged trea tment in re- spect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Terr i tory, above) are genera l ly adm i t ted free of qu an t i t a t ive restriction and ind iv idual license. Impor ts of goods which originate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require indi- vidual licenses. Some imports from EEC countries and some other impo r ts f rom non-EEC countries are sub- ject to m in imum prices; these require an adm in is tra t ive visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided in to four groups ac- cording to the ex tent of import liberalization: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former dependent territories, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the Un i ted States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified countries;8 (3) the Eastern European countries (Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R.) and the People's Republic of China; and (4) the German Democratic Republic. Commodities that may be impor ted free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions from one group of countries include all the commodities that may be free ly imported from the next group of countries plus some other specified commodi- ties. Goods covered by the import liberalization ar- rangements applicable to one coun try may be imported freely from another country, provided that the country of origin and the coun try of shipment both benefit f rom the same degree of liberalization. Impor ts of practically all indus tr ial products f rom countries in group (1) are free of qu an t i t a t ive restric- t ions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of agr icu l tural products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported free ly f rom d i f fe rent countries in this group, these dif- ferences re la t ing ma in ly to Hong Kong and Macao. Impor ts of certain industrial products from countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these and to certain additional industrial products from group (3) countries. For some commodities, there are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution global quotas that are allocated semiannually and ap- ply to all countries other than those having the benefit of bilaterally negotiated quotas or of privileged treat- ment. Imports from all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw materials are free of quantitative restrictions. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock prod- ucts. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control formalities, only a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration being required; however, as an exchange control measure, the domiciliation of the im- port transaction at an authorized bank may be pre- scribed. For some liberalized imports, an administrative visa issued by the central Customs Ad- ministration or by the competent technical ministry is required on an import declaration. Imports of the prod- ucts of the European Coal and Steel Community re- quire licenses when originating in non-ECSC countries. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of com- modities and applicable to specified countries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the compensation transaction proce- dure, which applies ma in ly to goods of Eastern Euro- pean origin. Because of the high degree of import liberalization, imports under this scheme are of slight importance. Payments for imports from foreign countries must be made by credit to a Foreign Account in Francs or w i th foreign currency purchased in the French exchange market; imports valued at less than F 10,000 may also be paid for through postal channels. Authorized banks may w i thout special authorization allow advance payments to be made that are provided for in the commercial contract, up to 30 per cent of the price for capital goods and up to 10 per cent for all other goods. Higher advance payments require prior approval by the Customs Administration. For all im- ports, importers may purchase spot foreign currency one month before the payment falls due (one month before shipment if a documentary credit is opened). There is no restriction on the use of suppliers' credit. The import payment itself can be made as soon as the importer can present evidence to his bank of domicilia- tion that the goods have been dispatched. Three months' forward cover for import payments can be obtained for any commodity; for the import of specified raw materials and specified foods tuffs (unroasted cof- fee, corn, rice, etc.) forward cover for six mon ths or one year is available. The foreign currency may be pur- chased forward at the time of domiciliation, but the FRANCE maturity of the forward exchange contract must not exceed the date on which the commercial payment is due. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles to foreign countries are controlled but not restricted as to amount. If justi- fy ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are per- mitted to approve applications for payments without any limitation for many categories of current invisibles, and up to established limits for certain other categories of current invisibles. Applications for all other pay- ments for invisibles and for amounts in excess of estab- lished limits are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers; such applica- tions are approved if a genuine current payment is in- volved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of F 1,500 a person without indicating their purpose, provided that the transfers do not constitute installments of payments exceeding F 1,500, are not for purposes subject to spe- cial allocation, and do not serve to accumulate funds abroad. Payments which may be authorized without limita- tion by authorized banks include those related to ap- proved trade transactions; income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties; bank ing commissions, patent fees, and specified categories of taxes; specified insurance payments; fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; alimony in accor- dance with court decisions; and net salaries or wages of foreigners employed in France, provided that the trans- fer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regulations, cer- tain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restriction; these include cer- tain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river transport. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 5,000 a person a trip, which may be taken up for any number of trips a year. The basic allocation for business travel is the same plus the equivalent of F 500 a person a day. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowance for any type of travel are approved by the Bank of France, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Any unu- tilized foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of F 1,000 must be surrendered upon return to France. Applications for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one mon th before departure. The use abroad of credit cards issued in France is unrestricted for the settlement of expenditures; in addition, the holder may use them to obtain funds from banks abroad up to F 1,000 a week. All fares for trips starting 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE in France may be paid in francs in France, as may hotel costs and other transportation expenses. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes. These bank- notes may be spent abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out F 5,000 in French banknotes and may recon- vert in the French exchange market into foreign cur- rency any French banknotes up to F 5,000 obtained by the conversion in that market of foreign means of pay- ment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any remaining French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign notes and coins when acquired in the French exchange market against a tourist travel allocation, or, if they are leaving on a business trip, the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign banknotes or in checks. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 5,000 in foreign bank- notes unless they were declared upon entry and the annotated declaration form shows that the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported minus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconversion of francs in to foreign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may also freely take out any other means of payment established in their name abroad, as well as, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's dec- laration, any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange in the French exchange market, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require individual licenses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be permitted without any formality, subject to certain ex- ceptions. Regardless of their value, exports through compensation transactions with certain countries9 re- quire licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Payment must be received through the official exchange market. The repatriation10 and, where appro- priate, the surrender by sale in the exchange market of proceeds from exports to foreign countries is required, normally w i th in one mon th of the date on which the payment falls due. Authorized banks may freely extend foreign currency advances to exporters; such advances and their repayment may be settled in the French ex- change market, as may the proceeds from the discount- ing of foreign currency drafts presented by exporters. The due date of the commercial contract (and, there- fore, the due date of the export receipts) cannot, except 186 with special authorization or when a guarantee by the Compagnie Francaise d'Assurance pour le Commerce Exterieur (COFACE) has been obtained, be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Export proceeds must not be received in French or foreign banknotes or banknotes issued by an institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking ac- count in France. Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in French francs, and are exempt from taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Mo- naco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatri- ated and, where appropriate, surrendered, within one month from the due date. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, CFA francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Resident travelers must within a mon th of en try sell in the French exchange market any foreign banknotes or travelers checks in excess of F 1,000 that they bring in. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of ex- change control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are subject to exchange control ap- proval. With the exception of purchases of French and foreign securities abroad, outward transfers of resi- dent-owned capital generally are restricted; capital re- ceipts from foreign countries generally are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered by sale in the exchange market (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct investment). Capital assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are freely permitted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use as their principal residence, up to F 300,000 a family unit. The transfer abroad of nonres- ident-owned funds in France, including the sales pro- ceeds of capital assets, is not restricted. French and foreign securities held in France by non- residents can be exported, provided that they have been deposited with an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier etranger de valeurs mobilieres); French and for- eign securities held under a foreign dossier can also be sold in France and the sales proceeds can be transferred ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution abroad. Foreign securities held in France by a nonresi- dent must be deposited with an authorized bank; French securities held in France by nonresidents need not be deposited but cannot be dealt w i th or exported unless they have been deposited. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited with a quali- fied bank or broker. Residents may hold French and foreign securities abroad under the control of a French authorized bank or broker. The exportation for the account of residents of French securities held in France is prohibited, except when they are to be sold abroad. Subject to compliance with the special regulations concerning inward and ou tward direct investment that are summarized below, residents may freely purchase French and foreign securities on stock exchanges abroad, through authorized banks.11 Such French and foreign securities may be held or sold abroad, but they may also be imported and then either be held or sold on a French stock exchange. The proceeds of the sale abroad of French or foreign securities must be sold on the exchange market w i th in two mon ths of receipt, unless used w i th in that period for reinvestment in secu- rities abroad. Correspondingly, nonresidents holding French or foreign securities abroad (whether acquired before November 24, 1968 or later) may freely import them into France and hold them in a foreign dossier, or sell them on a stock exchange in France and repatri- ate the proceeds through the French exchange market. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad and over inward and outward direct investment. In principle, these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or re- ceipts. At present, however, their application is in many instances affected by exchange control requirements. With the exception of the controls over capital issues in France, the transaction controls do not apply to countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Furthermore, the transaction controls over direct investment are not ap- plicable to member countries of the EEC, direct invest- ment transactions with which are subject to exchange control declaration and exchange control approval only. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad require prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance; in relations with member countries of the EEC, the declaration is re- quired under the exchange control regulations rather than under the special transaction controls, and prior exchange control authorization is required for all direct investment operations liable to involve a capital move- ment. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere par- ticipation is not considered as direct investment, pro- vided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange; any participation in any other type of firm is considered a direct investment. The Directorate of the FRANCE Treasury, in evaluating the degree of control, takes into account any special relationships resulting from stock options, patents and licenses, commercial contracts, etc. Except in respect of EEC countries, the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Unless the amount in- volved is less than F 1 million, documentary evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the liquidation proceeds of foreign direct invest- ments in France may be transferred abroad, and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days after it takes place. As an exception to the declaration and approval requirements summarized earlier in this paragraph, the making or the liquidation of direct investments abroad by residents is exempt from prior declaration or prior authorization when the amount involved does not exceed F 1 million a year for each beneficiary firm abroad, and provided that the transactions do not involve holding companies, invest- ment companies, investment trusts, unit trusts, mutual funds, or companies whose purpose it is to facilitate the f inanc ing or treasury functions of enterprises belonging to one or more groups. Also, certain inward direct investment up to F 1 million a transaction is exempt from prior declaration or authorization. Foreign issues on the French capital market are sub- ject to prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The requirement is applicable also to the Operations Account countries. Exempt from authori- zation, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the French Govern- ment, and (2) shares similar to securities that already are officially quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in France, or by branches or subsidiaries in France of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following types of borrowing are, in principle, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declara- tion, as indicated above, and whose postponement may be requested by the Minister up to two months after receipt of the declaration; (2) borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad; (3) borrowing by any type of firm to finance imports or exports; (4) loans related to certain international merchanting transactions; (5) loans contracted by banks expressly permitted to borrow abroad (these include all autho- rized banks); and (6) foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank firms, when the total amount out- standing of these loans does not exceed F 10 million for any one borrower, provided that the interest rate is a "normal" market rate, that the borrowing is not for the purpose of direct investment, that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered, and that each drawing against the loan is separated by at least one year from 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE the corresponding repayment. (However, between July 24, 1970 and the third quarter of 1973 borrowing in francs was restricted, the exemptions under (2), (3), (4), and (6) were limited to borrowing in foreign cur- rency, and borrowing in francs by nonbank residents from nonresidents was in effect prohibited. Further- more, during 1972 and most of 1973 banks and indus- trial companies were not normally allowed to borrow abroad to finance direct investment in France or abroad. During 1974, however, borrowing from non- residents, whether in francs or foreign currency, was not normally restricted.)12 All borrowings in Euro- francs are subject to prior authorization. The application of the controls over direct invest- ment and borrowing is delegated to the Bank of France insofar as they relate to French f irms that are ma in ly engaged in real estate business. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the Bank of France, which is given or withheld w i th in the framework of directives issued by the Treasury. Since the imposition of exchange control in 1968, authorized banks have been virtually free to lend foreign currency to nonresidents, subject to cer- tain reservations in respect of the g ran t ing of guaran- tees and varying limitations on their external position, and to resident importers and exporters. Lending to nonresidents in francs, however, is prohibited, w i th mi- nor exceptions. Authorized banks' foreign currency assets and the ir overall liabilities in francs and fore ign currency to non- residents are free from l im i ta t ion. Authorized banks may freely sell foreign exchange on the o f f ic ial ex- change market for the account of nonresidents, spot or fo rwa rd. They are allowed to pay interest on nonresi- dent-owned f r anc or foreign currency deposits. Nonres- ident-held f ranc deposits are not subject to reserve requirements, whe ther on balances held or on increases therein. Nonresidents may freely purchase French short-term securities, inc lud ing treasury bills, bons de caisse, and private drafts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in France. They may con t inue to hold abroad any gold they held there prior to November 25, 1968. There is a free gold ma rket for bars and coins in Paris, to wh ich residents have free and anonymous ac- cess and in wh ich norma l ly no o f f ic ial in t e rv en t ion takes place. Impo r ts and exports of gold in to or f rom the territory of continental France require prior autho- rization by the Bank of France, wh ich is not no rma l ly granted for mone ta ry gold but u sua l ly is given for in- dustrial gold. Exempt f rom th is requ irement are (1) impor ts and exports of gold addressed to or shipped by the Bank of France; (2) impo r ts and expor ts of m anu- fac tured articles con ta in ing on ly a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold, such as gold-filled and gold-plated articles; (3) 188 imports and exports by private persons of gold objects (other than medals and bars, but inc lud ing both per- sonal and other jewelry) or numismatic gold coins, provided that their combined weight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under "02 licenses" granted w i th the approval of the Directorate of Museums. Both licensed and exempt impor ts of gold are subject to customs declaration. The import and export of certain gold objects that are considered merchandise, such as gold watches, are subject to both the regular import and export licensing a r rangemen ts and to licensing by the Bank of France. A 20-franc gold coin, the napoleon, is legal tender but does not circulate. It is ac t ive ly traded on the Paris stock exchange. In domestic t rad ing, purchases of mon- e tary gold (bars and coins) are not subject to val- ue-added tax. Impo r ts of mone ta ry gold are exempt f rom customs du ty and value-added tax. Changes during 1974 January 7. It was announced that agencies and enter- prises in the energy sector were with immediate effect being allowed to bo r row at med ium term and long term on the fore ign and in te rna t ional capital markets. January 14. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions on certain in- dustrial impo r ts f rom A lban ia, Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic, the People's Republic of China, No r th Korea, H u n g a r y, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Ro- man ia, and the U.S.S.R. were removed. January 15. W i th effect f rom January 21, the re- ma in ing reserve requ i remen ts against nonres iden t- owned f r a nc deposits were rescinded. (Those on in- creases in such deposits had been eliminated in October 1973.) January 17. It was announced that a tax of F 6 a ton would be levied on impo r ts of crude petroleum. January 19. It was announced that du r ing the next six months, and on a temporary basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official ex- change m a rk et wou ld no longer aim at l im i t ing the exchange rates between the franc and certain other cur- rencies w i t h in predetermined margins; du r ing this pe- riod the mone ta ry au tho r i t ies would operate the exchange ma rket in an o rde r ly fash ion. Restrictions were being in troduced on capital ou t f lows but not on cu r rent paymen ts. No changes in the classification of t ransac t ions between o f f ic ial exchange ma rket and fi- nanc ial f r a nc ma rket were announced. (At the end of the six-month period, France did not resume its partici- pa t ion in the European common ma rg ins arrange- men t .) January 20. All lend ing of f r an cs to nonresidents, whe ther by banks or nonbank s, was made subject to au tho r iza t ion, and such au tho r iza t ion was not nor- ma l ly g ran ted. Prev ious ly, such lend ing was free ly per- m i t ted up to periods of two years. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 20. The general permission to authorized banks to credit nonresident franc accounts with the amount of loans in francs granted by residents was revoked. They could still debit such accounts for the repayment of franc loans granted to nonresidents prior to January 20. January 20. Forward cover facilities for outgoing payments were again limited to imports and such cover was normally restricted to 3 months, although periods of 6 or 12 months were permitted for specified com- modities. January 21. Transactions w i th Algeria ceased to take place at a fixed exchange rate. January 21. Export credit again was limited, unless special authorization or a COFACE guarantee was ob- tained, to 6 months after the arrival of the goods at their destination. January 21. The exemption from approval require- ments for "financial" foreign currency borrowing abroad by nonbank residents was increased from a to- tal indebtedness for each borrower of F 2 million to F 10 million, provided that each drawing against a loan and the corresponding repayment were at least one year apart. (Foreign currency borrowings abroad or from authorized banks in France to finance imports or ex- ports had never been subject to a ceiling, and they remained unaffected.) The circular of January 19, 1974 revoked that of March 21 ,1969 (as amended by circu- lars of July 24, 1970 and September 8, 1970). January 21. Bank of France Circular No. 200 A.F. specified the types of lending of francs to nonresidents that could still be undertaken by authorized banks. These were (1) franc overdrafts corresponding to nor- mal mail credits (up to ten business days); (2) documen- tary credits in favor of French exporters, when opened on instructions from banks' foreign correspondents and provided the export transaction was settled within 6 months of arrival of the goods; (3) credits within the framework of financial protocols signed by the French Government with foreign governments or of interbank agreements formally approved by the Treasury; and (4) financial credits in francs granted by French banks to foreign buyers of French capital goods and guaranteed by COFACE. All other franc lending (or renewal of exist- ing franc lending) to banking correspondents or other nonresidents was prohibited, including lending of francs to foreign correspondents or customers in the form of swaps of francs against foreign currencies. Banks were instructed to abstain in their relations with nonresidents from any transaction leading to a forward sale of francs by the latter, even an outright sale. January 21. Bank of France Circular No. 201 A.F. permitted authorized banks to use their foreign cur- rency holdings for "financial" loans to residents cov- ered by the January 20 circular on borrowing abroad, i.e., where such borrowing was permitted without prior authorization. January 31. The Minister of Economy and Finance announced that the French Government would borrow FRANCE foreign currency equivalent to US$1.5 billion. Sub- scriptions to the loan were closed on February 4. February 25. Imports of beef from "third" countries were restricted. March 20. Certain measures to stimulate exports were announced. COFACE would henceforth cover short-term commercial risks on exports to certain countries for which it previously did not grant cover; these risks would be guaranteed by the State, according to the normal procedure. For industrial investments abroad, investment guarantees would be granted on reinvested profits, up to 50 per cent of the initial amount invested. The maximum duration of invest- ment guarantees would be increased from 10 to 15 years, and the ordinary coverage from 75 per cent to 90 per cent. March 21. Medium-term and long-term credits for the financing of exports of capital goods were no longer taken into account in calculating minimum reserve re- quirements on credit extended by banks; this confirmed a rule already followed in practice previously. March 21. The dual exchange market was unified by the abolition of the financial franc market. The Trea- sury Circular of May 5, 1972 concerning the execution of transfers between France and foreign countries through the official exchange market and the financial franc market was revoked. In the remaining circulars issued since August 20, 1971 under Decree No. 67-78 and Decree No. 68-1021, the terms "financial f ranc market" and "Financial Account in Francs" were re- placed by "official exchange market" and "Foreign Ac- count in Francs," respectively. The fixed exchange rates for the CFA francs, the CFP franc, and the New Hebri- des franc remained unchanged. (On March 22, a circu- lar was issued which specified the permitted debits and credits to Foreign Accounts in Francs and provided new rules regarding dossiers etrangers de valeurs mobi- lieres.) May 30. France signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. June 12. The supervision over domestic bank credit to foreign-owned or foreign-controlled firms in France was tightened. July 2. Law No. 74-626 authorized the approval of the cooperation agreement of December 4, 1973 be- tween France and the member countries of the West African Monetary Union. July 15. Imports of cattle and beef from "third" countries were suspended pursuant to a decision of the EEC Ministers of Agriculture. July 26. Decree No. 74-721 modified Decree No. 68-1021 (as amended). The Minister of Economy and Finance was authorized to exempt from prior dec- laration or prior authorization certain financial trans- actions relating to inward and outward direct investment. Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972 was revoked. The new decree was implemented by an Order 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE and two Circulars, all of July 26. (See August 17, be- low.) August 7. Short-term export credits were exempted from the overall ceiling of 13 per cent on the growth of bank credit; dur ing August and September they would be allowed to increase by 19 per cent (on a year-to-year basis). August 9. Special inves tment credit facilities were introduced to enable small and medium-sized f irms to expand their export business. August 9. The Director-General of Customs and In- direct Taxes issued a circular mod i fy ing s l igh t ly the regulations governing impor ts and exports of gold. August 17. The regulations govern ing French direct inves tmen ts abroad as well as foreign direct invest- men ts in France (or the ir l iqu ida t ion) were relaxed slightly, and their supervision was partially delegated to au thor ized banks. In fu tu r e, French inves tmen ts abroad of less than F 1 million a year (except those by ho ld ing companies, companies engaged in po r t fo l io in- vestments, and similar f inanc ial companies) would not require prior declaration or prior app rova l. Fur ther- more, prior declaration or prior app roval would not be required for fore ign inves tmen ts in France of less than F 2 million a year as long as the operation aimed at developing French companies already controlled by foreign in teres ts, or for certain fore ign bo r row ing up to F 2 m i l l ion a year. However, such inves tmen ts would have to be in fore ign currency and must not en ta il an increase of the nonresident stake in the French com- pany. Also exempt f rom prior declaration or au thor iza- t ion, up to F 1 m i l l ion a t ransac t ion, were the purchase or creation of small companies in France by nonresi- dents. At the same time, the regu la t ions concern ing guarantees by residents in f avor of nonres iden ts or by nonres iden ts in f avor of residents were relaxed; in cer- tain cases these also became exempt f rom prior declara- tion and prior au tho r iza t ion. (The new legislation was dated Ju ly 26 but was published in the Off ic ial Gazette on August 17.) September 25. The Council of M in is ters approved new energy sav ing measures. Impo r ts of crude petro- leum and petroleum products (net) would in 1975 be limited in pr inc ip le to a m ax imum of F 51 b i l l ion, re- gardless of price developments (Law No. 74-908 of Oc- tober 29, Decree No. 74-940 of November 12, and Order of December 31). September 26. The permissible year-to-year g row th ra te for sho r t - te rm export credits was increased to 22 per cent for the last qu a r t er of 1974. September 29. Certain exchange con trol fo rma l i t ies and ob l iga t ions re la t ing to paymen ts in respect of im- ports and exports were abolished, i n c l u d i ng the re- qu i rement of domiciling impo rt and export transac t ions (prev ious ly applicable to a ll impo r ts f rom foreign countries when valued at F 50,000 or more) and the requ i rement of an engagement de change for exports to fore ign countries. 190 October 19. The effective interest rate on export cred- its was raised to 7.5 per cent, with immediate effect for new contracts, and with effect from January 15, 1975 for existing contracts. November 15. A circular was issued which intro- duced fu r ther minor changes in the regulations govern- ing borrowing abroad and inward and outward direct investment. It modified the relevant circulars of Janu- ary 19 and July 26. November 21. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1975 the metropolitan French franc would replace the CFA franc as legal tender in the overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion). (The measure was put into effect on March 31, 1975 by Decree No. 75-182 of March 19, 1975, which implemented Article 17 of Law No. 74-1114 of December 27, 1974.) December 6. The permissible interest rate spread on Euro-currency credits taken up by public sector agen- cies and eligible for a state guarantee was reduced. December 31. Decree No. 74-1177 transferred with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1975 the issue of currency in the Comoro Islands f rom the Bank of Madagascar and the Comores to the Ins t i tu te of Issue of the Comoro Is- lands. (The charter of the latter was issued in Decree No. 74-1176 of December 31.) NOTES 1 The currencies th at are o f f ic ia l ly quoted are Austrian sch i l l ings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, D j ibou ti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Ne the r lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escu- dos, pounds s te r l ing, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f r an c s, U.S. dollars, and za'ires. 2 Coun tr ies whose i n s t i t u te of issue ma in ta ins an Opera- t ions Account w i th the French Treasury: Cameroon, Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, I v o ry Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta. 3 With effect from March 31, 1975 the French franc re- placed the CFA f r a nc issued by the In s t i tu te of Issue of the French Overseas Depa r tmen ts as the currency of the Over- seas Depa r tmen ts. 4 Present French leg is la t ion no longer makes reference to the concept French Franc Area. From an exchange control po int of v iew, th is Area ceased to exist w i th effect from Janu- ary 31, 1967. In the con text of countries' overall relations w i th France, howeve r, the concept survives. In this sense the French Franc Area consists of France and the fo l low ing coun t r ies: (1) the coun t r ies of the West Afr ican Monetary Un ion (Dahomey, I v o ry Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta); (2) the coun tr ies of the Central African Cus- toms and Economic Un ion (Cameroon, Central African Re- pub l ic, People's Repub l ic of the Congo, and Gabon) and Chad; (3) th ree N o r th A f r i c an countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia); (4) two former Operations Account countries (Malagasy Repub l ic and Mau r i tan ia ); and (5) one other coun- t ry (Ma l i). This broad d e f i n i t i on is fo l lowed, in ter alia, in compiling the balance of paymen t s. In the con text of France's mone tary re la t ions, the concept of French Franc Area is narrower, ex c lud ing the coun t r ies of groups (3) and (4). 5 These coun t r ies and territories are listed in Article 86 of an Order of J a n u a ry 30, 1967 of the Directorate-General of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Customs and Indirect Taxes (as amended on February 6 and May 31, 1967). 6 In addition to the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries, these are the Institute of Issue of the French Overseas Departments (for Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion); the Overseas Institute of Issue (for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Wallis and Futuna Is- lands, and St. Pierre and Miquelon); and the Bank of Mada- gascar and the Comores (for the Comoro Islands) —but see note 3. With effect from January 1, 1975 the functions of the last-named institute were transferred to the Institute of Issue of the Comoro Islands. 7 Subject to compliance with the provisions of Decree No. 68-1021 of November 24, 1968, as amended by Decree No. 71-144 of February 22, 1971 and Decree No. 72-365 of May 5, 1972. 8 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bra- zil, Burma, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Republic of Korea, Leba- non, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Phil- ippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. 9 Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, Turkey, U.S.S.R., Yugosla- via, and certain Latin American countries. 10 Repatriation may take place either by collection of for- eign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. 11 The existing general permissions do not cover the sale in France by nonresidents, or the purchase abroad by residents, of securities that are not quoted on a recognized stock ex- change. 12 On April 3, 1975 the Minister of Economy and Finance stated that public sector companies had been asked to reduce their borrowings abroad and that the Government would encourage Euro-franc bond issues by foreign companies. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, be- tween the Banque des Etats de PAfrique Centrale (BEAC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Gabon itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle, fi- nancial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Economy and Finance supervises borrow- ing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Gabon, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy and Finance, who has dele- gated his approval authority for current payments to the authorized banks and that with respect to the exter- nal position of the banks to the BEAC. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be ef- fected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of External Trade in the Ministry of Economy and Fi- nance. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BEAC maintains an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made 192 through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BEAC banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BEAC agency in Libreville by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident accounts of BEAC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes is- sued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is pro- hibited. Imports and Import Payments Some imports are prohibited for security or health reasons. Imports of cement and wheat flour from all sources require special authorization. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from member countries of the EEC other than France (origi- nal member countries only) may be made freely. All imports from other countries are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. Global quotas are established by commodity groups for im- ports from these countries. The global quotas may be used to import goods originating in any of these countries. In practice, licenses outside the import pro- gram's quotas are granted freely. The program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Gabonese Commit- tee. A special licensing procedure is applicable to the import of petroleum products. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary ex- change, provided that the shipping documents are sub- mitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require authoriza- tion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 200,000 a person a trip (CFAF 100,000 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Gabon must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 500,000 a trip. Tourist and busi- ness travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maxi- mum of CFAF 25,000 in BEAC banknotes; the amount taken out is not deducted from the travel allo- cation. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BEAC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countries of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and certain mining prod- ucts require licenses. Unworked gold and uranium are at present exported only to France. Exporters may ob- tain import licenses for additional quantities of com- modities included in the import program and essential to their export activities, up to an amount correspond- ing to 10 per cent of the total value of their exports during the preceding year. Export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account country must be sur- rendered. Export proceeds normally must be received within 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within one month of the due date. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area may be re- tained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign currency surrendered, within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BEAC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. GABON Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require the approval of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations and are restricted, but capital re- ceipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embody- ing claims on foreign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Gabon, the control measures do not apply to France (as defined above), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad2 must be declared to the Ministry of Economy and Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires declaration to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relinquish- ing of a participation that had previously been ap- proved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Ga- bon3 must be declared to the Minister, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Ministry unless the operation involves the relin- quishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct invest- ment in Gabon. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Gabonese in- vestments abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days follow- ing each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Gabon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Gabo- 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON nese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale in Gabon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The fo l low- ing are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of ser- vices abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the f inanc ing of commercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between for- eign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contract- ing of loans referred to under (4) that are free of au tho- rization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical persons, whe ther public or private persons, whose normal resi- dence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon or juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The follow- ing are, however, exempt f rom this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the oper- ation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967 and July 9, 1971, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domes- tic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, re- duced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. A m in imum of 10 per cent state participation is required in all major industrial ventures. The Code provides for four categories of preferential treatment. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible companies may receive protec- tion against foreign competition and may be given pri- ority in the allocation of imports, or public credit, and 194 of government contracts. Non-Gabonese firms or indi- viduals are not permitted to own land in Gabon. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). The export of gold is the monopo ly of the Societe Gabonaise de Re- cherches et d'Exp lo i ta t ion Minieres (SOGAREM). Un- worked gold may be exported on ly to France. Both licensed and exempt impor ts of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained fo l low ing the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the in terven t ions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at l im i t ing the exchange rates between the French f ranc and certain other cur- rencies w i th in predetermined margins. A jo int decision to this effect was taken on February 1 by the Ministers of Finance of the member countries of the BEAC. February 12. New cooperation agreements were signed w i th France. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Gabon also ceased to operate. The financial f ranc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements w i th countries outside the French Franc Area hencefor th took place only through the off ic ial exchange market and th rough For- eign Accounts in Francs. The relevant exchange con- trol regulations were not immediately issued in Gabon. October 6. An economic and technical cooperation agreement was signed w i th the People's Republic of China. NOTES 1 The CFA f ranc c ircu la t ing in Gabon is issued by the Banque des Etats de 1'Afrique Centrale (BEAC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, and the People's Repub l ic of the Congo. 2 Inc lud ing those made th rough the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Gabon that are directly or ind i rec t ly under fore ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.426562 gram of fine gold per Gambian Dalasi. Since June 1972, however, the author- ities, while maintaining a fixed relationship between the dalasi and sterling, have not maintained the exchange rate for other currencies within prescribed margins, and therefore all transactions, except those in sterling or currencies maintaining a fixed relationship with ster- ling, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The Central Bank of The Gambia deals only in sterling and charges a commission of Vie of 1 per cent buying, and V2 of 1 per cent selling, based on the fixed rate of £ stg. 1 = D 4. The commercial banks deal with cus- tomers for spot transactions in sterling at rates within 1 per cent of the Bank's fixed rate and in other curren- cies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate in London for the currency concerned against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance and Trade. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Central Bank. The commercial banks, which have been appointed as authorized dealers, may authorize sales of currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for imports from outside the Area that are covered by specific licenses and, up to specified amounts, for travel expenses and sundry payments outside the Sterling Area. All other sales of non-Sterling Area currencies are subject to the authorization of the Central Bank. The Ministry of Finance and Trade is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Gambia has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made and received freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area may be made and received in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency, or in dalasis or sterling from nonresident sources. the proceeds of sales of non-Sterling Area currencies. They may be debited for any payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Ac- counts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area curren- cies. In addition, there is legal provision for authorized dealers to maintain Blocked Accounts under the direc- tion of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is prohibited from all sources, predominantly on social, health, and moral grounds. The import from any country of rice and wheat flour is subject to specific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fair domestic pricing. The Gambia Produce Marketing Board is responsible for rice imports. All other imports are freely permitted under an Open General License if imported from the following countries, but are subject to specific licensing if imported from other countries: (1) all countries within the Sterling Area; (2) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Re- public of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Swit- zerland, Turkey, and the United States, together with the overseas territories of these countries; and (3) Ar- gentina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports from Sterling Area countries may be paid for freely in dalasis or in any other currency of the Sterling Area. Settlement for imports from outside the Sterling Area may be approved by an authorized dealer on production of evidence of importation for any com- modity that is covered by a valid specific import li- cense. For imports from outside the Sterling Area that do not require specific licensing, payment authorization is given by the Central Bank on production of evidence of importation or shipment. Advance payments for im- ports, whether covered by specific licenses or not, are approved by the Central Bank in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with the normal practice of the trade. Payments for imports from outside the Sterling Area may be made in dalasis or sterling to an External Account or in any non-Ster- ling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts Payments for Invisibles Bank accounts held by authorized dealers in The Gambia on behalf of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with autho- rized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with Payments for invisibles to Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Payments in currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area require permission from the Central Bank, with the exception that autho- rized dealers have been delegated powers to authorize travel expenses and sundry payments. Such permission 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA by the Central Bank is liberally given in all genuine cases. Irrespective of the purpose of the journey, autho- rized dealers may grant a basic exchange allowance up to D 750 a person a trip but not exceeding D 1,500 in any one calendar year for travel outside the Sterling Area. For business, professional, or official purposes, authorized dealers may provide residents with ex- change facilities up to D 1,750 for any one journey at a rate not exceeding D 125 a day subject to a maximum of D 3,500 in any one calendar year. Any excess over these allowances requires permission from the Central Bank; all applications are approved, provided that no capital outflow is involved. Of the above amounts, up to D 250 may be taken in currency notes and coins of countries outside the Sterling Area. Irrespective of des- tination, each traveler leaving The Gambia may take out D 75 in Gambian a n d / or sterling currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when entering the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of needs for local consumption, the export to any destination of charcoal and firewood is subject to specific licensing. The export of all goods to Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia also require a specific license. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under Open Gen- eral License. Payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be received within six mon ths from the date of export in a non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency or in dalasis or sterling from an External Account. outside the Sterling Area must be offered for sale to authorized dealers. There is no restriction on the im- port of Gamb ian or o ther cu r rency notes. Capital Inw a rd t rans fe rs of capital are not controlled. Out- ward t rans fe rs may be effected free ly to countries w i th in the S ter l ing Area but are subject to control to countries outside the Sterling Area. At the time of mak- ing investments in The Gambia, nonresident investors may app ly for an und e r t ak ing as to the authorization of app l ica t ions for the subsequent repa tr ia t ion of capi- tal; the rem i t tance of p ro f i ts is free ly allowed a f ter pro- vision has been made for local taxa t ion. All other applications to t ran s fer capital outside the Sterling Area are dealt w i th by the Central Bank. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonres iden ts are subject to the au tho r iza t ion of the Central Bank; such au thor iza t ion is no rma l ly given f ree ly for the purpose of p rov id ing wo rk ing capital to companies registered ou ts ide The Gambia for the ir opera t ions in The Gam- bia. Gold The impo rt of gold coins m in ted in the United King- dom requ ires l icens ing by the M in is t ry of Finance and Trade; otherwise, gold coins and bullion may be im- ported f ree ly. All in te rnal dealings in gold and the export of gold requ ire the permission of the Central Bank. Ne i ther the Cen tral Bank nor the commercial banks deal in gold. Changes during 1974 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies of countries February 15. The Na t ional Trad ing Corporation was established. It s tar ted operations on March 1. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.242806 gram of f ine gold per Deutsche Mark. A central rate of DM 1 = SDR 0.310580 (DM 3.21979 = SDR 1) has been es- tablished, and Germany1 avails itself of wider margins of 2y4 per cent. Germany maintains a max imum mar- gin of 2Y4 per cent for exchange rates in transactions in the market between the deutsche mark and the Bel- gian franc, the Danish krone, the Luxembourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona. No announced margins are observed for other currencies. On December 31, 1974 the closing selling rate for the U.S. dollar in F rank fu rt was DM 2.4095 per US$1. Premiums and discounts on for- ward exchange transactions are normally left to the interplay of market forces. Residents may freely enter into fo rwa rd exchange transactions among themselves and with nonresidents, irrespective of whether there is an underlying transaction. Germany formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is oper- ated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Ministry of Finance, the Federal Ministry of Transpor- tation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bun- desamt fur gewerbliche Wirtschaft), the Federal Office for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt fur Ernahrung und Forstwirtschaft), Import and Storage Agencies (Ein- fuh r- und Vorratsstellen), and the Ministries of Eco- nomics of the Laender. There is no exchange control as such, but Article 23 of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law (Aussenwirt- schaftsgesetz) has been invoked to apply direct controls to certain inward capital transactions between residents and nonresidents.2 The Deutsche Bundesbank, the cen- tral bank, is in charge of the implementation of the capital controls. The Bank's prior approval is required for transactions involving the sale by residents to non- residents of German money market paper and fixed- interest securities of German issuers with a remaining maturity of less than four years or eligible for delivery under en pension transactions, and for the payment of interest on nonresident-held deposits in Germany (other than savings accounts up to DM 50,000 held by nonresident private persons). All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking sys- tem, the Central Capital Market Committee, formu- lates recommendations with regard to the timing and the terms of domestic and foreign bond issues, except issues by those institutions that have recourse to the capital market on a permanent basis. Imports and Import Payments The Import List, which is part of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law, comprises a total of 8,384 statisti- cal positions. Their treatment after the publication on December 17, 1974 of the 48th amendment to the Im- port List is as follows: some 6,500 items may be im- ported free of license from any country except Rhodesia. Commodities corresponding to some 8,000 positions may be imported free of license from countries in Country Lists A and B only, and commod- ities covered by 8,300 positions may be imported free of license only from countries in Country List A.3 Cer- tain petroleum products (7 positions) require a license irrespective of origin. Imports of coal from countries that are not members of the European Coal and Steel Community are permitted within the framework of a global quota of 5.5 million tons a year. Over 1,100 statistical items are covered by the Common Agricul- tural Policy of the EEC; most of these are subject to variable import levies which have in most cases re- placed previous barriers to imports, but for some items an import license is still required by EEC regulations. De facto liberalization is applicable to certain com- modities (912 statistical items at the end of 1974) when originating in and purchased in Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., or North Viet-Nam. Under these arrange- ments, import licenses are issued automatically upon application, provided that domestic production and prices are not affected adversely (AMLA4 procedure). Imports of 1,500 commodities among those not sub- ject to licensing require an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundesbank, which serves as docu- mentation.5 For imports still subject to quantitative restriction (with certain exceptions, such as food items imported by tourists, samples, gifts, and small parcels), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) pub- lished in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. Some tenders are permanently open (AMLA procedure). Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity fu- tures may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may also be carried out freely. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely w i th- out individual license, except to Rhodesia. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related pay- ments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of foreign ships f rom resi- dents of specified countries and the conclusion of sea freight contracts with them; the use of foreign boats in certain inland waterways traff ic; transactions w i th specified countries (which do not grant reciprocal treat- ment) for hull and marine liability insurance and avia- tion insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association w i th non- residents; and certain contracts with nonresidents per- taining to motion-picture films.6 Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. W i th few exceptions, other export transactions may be carried out freely. For all goods, an export no t i f ica t ion, for statistical purposes, is required. Certain exports (mostly strategic goods) are subject to ind iv idual li- censing. A similar system exists for agr icu l tural com- modities, but generally for statistical reasons on ly. The customs authorities exercise control over export decla- rations and also check to see whe ther a license is re- quired. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all paymen ts. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresi- dents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance th rough the delivery to residents of List C countries3 of cons t ruc t ional d raw- ings, materials, and ins t ruc t ions for manu fac tu re, inso- far as such assistance is for the p roduc t ion of goods whose export requires a license. There are, in principle, no restrictions on the receipt of paymen ts for services rendered to nonres iden ts. However, receipts exceeding DM 1,000 on account of services have to be reported. German and fore ign notes and coins and other means of payment may be im- ported f ree ly. Capital Residents and nonres iden ts may export capital free ly w i thout a license, except to Rhodesia. Foreign and in- ternational bond issues on the German capital market do not require o f f ic ial app rova l, a l though a system of vo lun ta ry coordination of issuing banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee. Domestic and fore ign securities of all types may be impo r ted or ex- 198 ported freely. There are no l im i ta t ions on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonres- idents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings. Certain types of capital in f lows are restricted. The prior approval of the Bundesbank is required for sales to nonresidents of all domestic money market paper and of fixed-interest securities of German issuers with less than four years remaining to maturity, as well as for en pension transactions w i th nonresidents invo lv ing fixed-interest securities of German issuers where such securities are eligible for delivery in less than four years; approval is not no rma l ly granted. Nonresidents' direct inves tmen ts in Germany, purchases of real estate in Germany for inves tment or personal use, and purchases of German or foreign equities do not require approval. Interest payable to nonresident holders of fixed-interest securities of German issuers is subject to a w i thho ld ing tax of 25 per cent ("coupon tax"). Banks are subject to d i f fe ren t ial m in imum reserve requ iremen ts on the level of their fore ign liabilities w i th ma tur i t ies of less than f o ur years; the rates of deposit at the end of 1974 were 32.2 per cent, 27.6 per cent, and 23.0 per cent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respectively. The principal exemption is for banks' for- eign currency borrow ings that are immediately rein- vested abroad. Banks are not norma l ly permitted to pay interest on domestic or fore ign currency balances held by nonresidents (other than savings account bal- ances up to DM 50,000 held by nonresident ind iv idu- als). Claims and l iab i l i t ies ( inc lud ing paymen ts overdue and prepaymen ts) together to ta l ing more than DM 100,000 must be reported, except in the case of banks. Gold Residents may f ree ly hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonres iden ts at home or abroad. There is a free gold market in F r ank fu r t. Impor ts require a li- cense f rom the Federal Office for Trade and Indus t ry when the gold is purchased in or originates in Rhode- sia. W i th these exceptions, imports and exports by resi- dents and nonresidents of gold in any form are unres tr ic ted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is requ ired. Impo r ts of unwo rked gold and gold alloys are free of customs d u ty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Impo r ts of monetary gold by the Bundesbank and impor ts of gold coins that are legal tender, inc lud ing sovereigns and Kruger rand, are ex- empt f rom th is tax and from customs du ty; imports of other gold coins are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent or, where the assessment basis exceeds 250 per cent of the f i ne gold value, at a rate of 5.5 per cent. Domestic purchases of gold (alloys and coins that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are not legal tender) are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regulations and in practically all cases are liberalized. Changes during 1974 January 1. The 29th Ordinance (of December 19, 1973) amending the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordi- nance came into effect. Borrowing from nonresidents by importers to finance imports (including tied finance credits) became exempt from approval by the Bundes- bank and from the cash deposit requirement, provided the payment terms did not exceed six months; where the payment terms were in excess of six months, ap- proval and cash deposit ceased to be required, provided that they were customary in the trade concerned or, in the case of tied finance credits, had been customary up to February 4, 1973. Resident transit traders could freely borrow from nonresident suppliers (or under tied finance credits, from banks abroad) for periods identi- cal with those for which they extended credit to their nonresident buyers. Borrowing also became exempt from cash deposit when it was undertaken for the pur- pose of equipping a firm abroad in which residents participated, of providing financing to such firms, or of financing the purchase of real estate abroad. The Bun- desbank was authorized to grant a reasonable degree of relief where compliance with the cash deposit require- ment would result in undue hardship. January 1. The increases in quotas for imports from state trading countries that had been introduced in 1973 under the Second Stabilization Program, gener- ally were extended; the corresponding quota increases for textiles from Asian countries were discontinued. January 11. The Bundesbank announced that the reserve requirements against the level of liabilities to nonresidents were being reduced with retroactive effect from January 1, 1974; the reserves on the level of such liabilities were reduced by 5 percentage points from existing levels, to 35 per cent, 30 per cent, and 25 per cent on demand, time, and savings deposits, respec- tively. The 60 per cent reserve requirement against in- creases in liabilities to nonresidents was abolished. Also with effect from January 1, the reserves on liabilities to residents were reduced by 5 per cent. As a result of these measures, the credit institutions' required re- serves were expected to be reduced by about DM 4.5 billion, an amount roughly equal to the outflow of foreign exchange since the beginning of December 1973. The Bundesbank also expressed its agreement in principle with the Government's intention (announced on December 19, 1973) to proceed with a gradual dis- mantling of the capital controls. January 20. The 30th Ordinance (of January 17, 1974) amending the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordi- nance, the 29th Ordinance amending the Export List, and the 47th Ordinance amending the Import List FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY came into force. The first of these regulations did not affect the capital controls, although it modified some reporting requirements with respect to interest paid or received by nonresidents. The second related to exports of cocoa and cocoa products to non-EEC countries. The third shifted Finland from Country List B to Country List A. January 21. The official limits for the French franc were suspended. The foreign exchange markets were closed for one day. January 30. The Government decided on a fur ther step-by-step relaxation of the capital controls and is- sued the 31st Ordinance amending the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance, which came into effect on February 1 (except for certain changes in reporting re- quirements, which took effect on March 29, 1974). Approval ceased to be required for borrowing abroad by residents, the acquisition by nonresidents against payment of domestic securities (with the excep- tion of domestic money market paper and domestic fixed-interest bonds and notes with a ma tur i ty of less than four years or eligible for delivery under en pension transactions), and inward direct investment. The cash deposit requirement remained in force, but the rate of deposit was reduced from 50 per cent to 20 per cent (by a Bundesbank Order of January 30, with effect from February 1) and the standard exemption was increased from DM 50,000 to DM 100,000. The retroactive effect of any future increases in the rate of cash deposit was limited to two months at most. The reserve requirements on the level of banks' liabil- ities to nonresidents remained unchanged. The ap- proval requirement was maintained for the payment of interest on nonresidents' deposits with domestic banks, for the acquisition by nonresidents of domestic money market paper, for the acquisition by nonresidents of fixed-interest securities with a remaining maturity of less than four years, for en pension transactions with a maturity of less than four years with nonresidents, and for the acquisition, against payment, of claims on resi- dents by nonresidents (for which the exemption was increased from DM 50,000 to DM 100,000 a resident a calendar year). February 11. The Bundesbank revoked its 1972 re- quest to credit institutions not to sell their own hold- ings of "foreign" deutsche mark bonds to nonresidents. The 1973 request to avoid issuing "global certificates," through which the "coupon tax" could be avoided, was maintained. May 30. Germany signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. June 5. With effect from July 31, the credit institu- tions were required to report to the Bundesbank and the Federal Banking Supervisory Office their end- of-month forward foreign exchange commitments (pur- chase and sale commitments), classified by maturity (up to one month, one to three months, and over three months). In addition, the credit institutions had to re- 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY port their assets and liabilities in foreign currencies, spot and forward. The forward commitments had to be specified (1) for all foreign currencies combined, (2) for U.S. dollars, and (3) for pounds sterling. Banks with branches abroad had to report the commitments and positions of the latter separately. (Bundesbank An- nouncement No. 8002/74 of June 5.)7 June 20. With retroactive effect from June 7, the Bundesbank revoked the regulation under which banks' liabilities to nonresidents held as cover for com- mercial documentary credits could be treated as do- mestic liabilities for purposes of calculating m in imum reserve requirements. Such liabilities ou ts tand ing on June 6 could be treated as domestic liabilities un t il the ir expiration but not later than September 6. July 15. Imports of cattle and beef from "third" countries were suspended in accordance w i th a decision of the EEC Ministers of Agr icu l ture. August 20. The Bundesbank announced that w i th effect f rom September 1 the m in imum reserve require- men ts against the level of banks' domestic liabilities wou ld be reduced by 10 per cent of existing levels. August 30. The Federal Bank ing Supervisory Office announced that f rom October 1 each bank's open ex- change position, i.e., the d ifference between all fore ign exchange claims and liabilities (excluding notes and coins but including foreign securities), was to be limited to 30 per cent of liable capital at the close of each business day. In ca lcu la t ing the d ifference, on ly claims and l iab i l i t ies in the same cu r rency could be ne t ted against each o ther. Fur thermore, the sum of absolute net positions in all currencies due w i th in one mon th and w i th in a period of six calendar mon ths was to be limited to 40 per cent of liable capital, also on a day-to-day basis. September 11. The Federal Cabinet decided to abol- ish bo th the cash deposit requ irement and the approval requ irement for the acquisition by nonresidents, against paymen t, of claims on residents. The decision was imp lemen ted by the 32nd Ord inance (of Septem- ber 11) amend ing the Foreign Trade and Paymen ts Ordinance, wh ich came in to effect on September 15, and revoked Articles 69a, 69b, and 69c of the latter Ordinance. The enab l ing legislation p rov id ing for the in t roduc t ion of a cash deposit requ i rement remained in force. September 27. Germany subscribed to the Fund's Vo lun t a ry Declaration on Trade and O ther Cu r rent Account Measures for Balance of Paymen ts Purposes. September 30. The Bundesbank announced that w i th effect from October 1, the reserve requirements on resi- dent and nonres ident deposits were being lowered by 8 per cent of existing levels. October 14. With effect f rom November 1, the Fed- eral Bank ing Supervisory Office tightened the supervi- sion over the credit ins t i tu t ions' open fo rwa rd exchange comm i tmen ts by directing that any excess comm i tment be reported to the Bundesbank and Federal Bank ing 200 Supervisory Office on the business day following the day on which it arose. October 24. The Federal Government decided to abolish subsidies on coal exports and to introduce an annual import quota of 3 million metric tons for coking coal. November 1. The credit institutions henceforth were required to report all commodity futures contracts to the Federal Banking Supervisory Office. Transactions in gold and silver were exempt. December 4. The Ministry of Economics announced that a law was being drafted which would require Ger- man corporations to iden t ify foreign buyers of their shares. (Tentative guidelines relating to inward invest- ments in industrial and commercial firms were issued, for discussion by labor and industry, in February 1975.) December 17. The 48th Ordinance amending the Im- port List was issued. It came into effect on January 1, 1975. Coun t ry List C, which previously was part of the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance, was incorpo- rated in to the Import List, which already contained Coun t ry Lists A and B. The commodity list was ad- justed in accordance w i th the EEC's harmonized for- eign trade nomenc la ture. December 17. The 33rd Ordinance amending the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance was issued. It adapted certain provisions of the Ordinance to new EEC legislation in the field of foreign trade and came in to effect on J anu a ry 1, 1975. December 20. The Economics Ministry issued a Cir- cular l is t ing all commodities requiring export licenses and advance approval under EEC and German law. December 20. The Federal Office for Trade and In- dus t ry added a negative Coun try List D, containing on ly Rhodesia, to the existing Export Lists A, B, and C. (A commod i ty specification of the items on this new list was issued on Janua ry 2, 1975.) December 31. W i th effect f rom January 1, 1975, a number of goods (123 statistical items) were added to those that could be imported freely from state trading countries under the AMLA procedure. NOTES 1 The te rm "Germany" is used in th is su rvey as an abbrevi- ation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 2 The concepts of resident and nonresident are defined in Ar t ic le 4, Section 1, of the Foreign Trade and Payments Law. 3 As of J a n u a ry 1, 1975, countries in List A are those of the fo rm er OEEC area and F in land; countries in List C are the CMEA coun t r ie s, People's Republic of Ch ina, Cuba, N o r th Korea, and N o r th V ie t -Nam; and countries in List B comprise those inc luded ne i ther in List A nor in List C. These three lists are contained in the Import List. Rhodesia is not inc luded in any of the three coun t ry lists for imports. 4 Aussch re ibungen m it lau fender An t rags te l lung. 5 A d i f f e r ent type of import declaration is required for some seven i tems t h at have been made subject to special superv is ion by the EEC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY 6 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from non- residents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German-synchronized ver- sion, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in CMEA countries, and the acceptance of film services from CMEA countries. 7 Bundesbank Announcement No. 8001/75 of March 25, 1975 instructed credit institutions to no t i fy regularly their end-of-month purchase and delivery commitments under for- ward exchange contracts as well as their claims and liabilities in gold and other precious metals. The previous reporting requirements for forward exchange liabilities and foreign cur- rency positions were greatly simplified and were limited to (1) the total amount of purchase and delivery commitments from forward exchange transactions (as well as uncompleted spot exchange transactions), and (2) the foreign currency position vis-a-vis residents. 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.450182 gram of fine gold per Ghanaian Cedi. Since February 15, 1973, however, the Bank of Ghana has dealt at an official rate of 0 1 = US$0.87. The Bank of Ghana quotes rates for the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, and 14 other currencies;1 on December 31, 1974 the Bank's selling rates were 0 2.68 per £ stg. 1 and 0 1.15 per US$1. A different effective exchange rate arises for certain export pro- ceeds as a result of an export bonus scheme (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). The autho- rized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghanaian cur- rency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward, but they do not main- tain foreign exchange balances, receiving their require- ments from the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Minis- try of Trade, Industries, and Tourism is empowered, on behalf of that Ministry, to prohibit, regulate, or license the import and export of all goods. Applications by the industrial sector and certain state agencies for individ- ual import licenses must be channeled through the ap- propriate ministry or government agency for endorsement. Applications that have been endorsed by the competent ministry or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Minis- try of Trade, Industries, and Tourism. Applications by the commercial houses for the import of consumer and investment goods are submitted direct to the Ministry of Trade, Industries, and Tourism. The Controller of Imports and Exports issues import licenses on the basis of an import program drawn up and supervised by the Import Licenses Advisory Committee, on which the Bank of Ghana, various ministries, the army, and the Chamber of Commerce are represented. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for pay- ments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign ex- change transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Ghana has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in cedis through Sterling Area Accounts, in ster- ling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the 202 Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Ster- ling Area currency. Receipts from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhode- sia may be obtained in cedis from a Foreign Account, in sterling from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, settlements re- lated to transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made through clearing accounts main- tained by the Bank of Ghana and / or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Furthermore, pro- ceeds from exports to countries with which Ghana does not have payments agreements must be received in the currency of the importing country (if that currency is among the currencies quoted by the Bank of Ghana) or in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or deutsche mark. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area other than Ghana are desig- nated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ghana, with transfers from Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area cur- rencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Ster- ling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Ac- counts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by resi- dents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhode- si an currency. They may be debited for inward pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rho- desian currency. Nonresident accounts maintained under the provi- sions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Offi- cial Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with authorized outward payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, with payments re- ceived through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and with pro- ceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transfers to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing ac- count at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of an- other category, the purpose of which is to receive funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for authorized payments, including the pur- chase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia, South Africa, Namibia (South West Africa), and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not permitted. A large part of the import trade is carried out by private importers who must be regis- tered and have to pay a flat registration fee of 0 50 a year. Unregistered importers pay a fee of 0 25 a year which entitles them to import goods on an open general license only. Other imports are made by state agencies. Imports of certain goods also produced in Ghana, cer- tain commodities of a luxury character, and certain goods deemed harmful to health or public order are severely restricted. These are specified in a List of Re- stricted Imports comprising some 140 items. Applica- tions for the importation of items on the restricted list are not normally approved. Certain basic items such as rice and sugar, which appear on the restricted list, may be imported only by the Logistics Committee (Essen- tial Commodities Committee). There is an open general license which permits any importer to import freely from any country trade samples, personal or household effects, small gifts, single copies of publications, domes- tic pets, headloads of foodstuffs from neighboring countries, fish caught by Ghanaian-owned vessels, and reimports. All other items require specific import li- censes. There is a list of commercial imports eligible for specific licenses. Otherwise specific import licenses are only issued for items that are considered essential. Cer- tain imports are channeled through a bulk purchasing company, the Ghana Import Company, or another public sector agency, the Ghana National Trading Cor- poration. All imports of government departments and corporations normally must be made through the Ghana Supply Commission. Except for aid imports, import licenses do not specify the country from which the commodity has to be im- ported; they merely specify whether payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses for payment in inconvertible currencies may be used for imports from any payments agreement country. Li- censes are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by the Bank of Ghana, but certain ar- rears exist with respect to matured 180-day trade cred- its established before February 7, 1972. Importers are required to establish confirmed letters of credit through Ghanaian commercial banks when placing orders, and GHANA virtually all imports are made on a sight basis. Com- mercial banks usually require importers to make down- payments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. For imports valued at over US$2,000 f.o.b., banks are forbidden to make payments against a letter of credit or a bank draft unless the import documents include a Clean Report of Findings issued by the General Superintendence Company Lim- ited, a commercial firm which inspects commodities for price, quality, and quantity in the country of origin or shipment. A graduated license fee is payable on the c.i.f. amount of specific import licenses issued for most com- modities. The fee is levied at rates of 5, 10, 15, 20, 30, and 50 per cent. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. Certain payments and transfers are in ar- rears. The following categories of payments are normally authorized in connection with the importation of goods: (1) the transfer of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buying com- mission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (2) the transfer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. The pay- ment of buying commission on imports is not permit- ted. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applications are properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of 0 3,000 a year, and are permitted only to persons having an annual disposable income of at least 0 1,000; this personal remittance quota is in- tended to cover all personal and family requirements and commitments outside Ghana, including leave ex- penses, travel for health purposes, education, gifts, in- surance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self- employed persons are also limited to 40 per cent of their net annual earnings, up to a maximum of 0 3,000. Nonresident companies are, with the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, permit- ted to transfer abroad freely their net profits after tax; at present, however, profit transfers are being autho- rized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that are either foreign owned or owned or controlled by nonresidents and that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA The basic exchange allocations for tourist and busi- ness travel have been suspended. Travel allowances are determined by the Bank of Ghana in the light of the applicant's requirements. Residents of any nationality (except children under two years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Resident travelers may take with them foreign cur- rency notes equivalent to (2 100, provided that not more than the equivalent of 0 20 is taken in any one currency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to 0 20. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency brought in and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Africa, Namibia (South West Africa), and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohibited. Exports to any destination of scrap of iron and steel also are prohibited. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Marketing Board, and diamonds through the Diamond Marketing Corporation. Normally, specific export li- censes are required. Exporters are required to collect and repatriate the proceeds from their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surren- dered to a commercial bank in Ghana upon receipt. Exporters surrendering export proceeds in external Af- rican currencies or convertible currencies may be granted an export bonus of 20 per cent of the cedi equivalent. This bonus is given on all products of Gha- naian origin, other than timber, cocoa and cocoa prod- ucts, and all minerals and primary metals except diamonds bought from local producers; in addition, the bonus is granted on timber and its derivatives and on fabricated metals, when exported to African countries. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely. The import of Ghanaian currency notes is pro- hibited, with the exception that travelers may bring in up to (£ 20 in such banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval by the Capital Investment Board in accordance with the Capital Investments Decree, 1973 of January 9, 1973. Certain lines of economic activity are not open to foreigners. Investments approved under the decree are guaranteed in principle the right to transfer profits and, in the event of sale or liquidation, capital proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also avail- able for such investments. The Decree also stipulates 204 that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropri- ated and that, when approved enterprises are national- ized in the public interest, fair compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their mer- its. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds represent- ing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who emigrate are considered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate docu- mentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. Proceeds from the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to be reinvested in gov- ernment bonds or treasury bills; the interest accruing on such investments is transferable. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual ap- proval of the central bank. Such companies, when fi- nanced with locally raised capital, are not permitted to transfer profits or dividends abroad. Residents who are private persons are not normally granted foreign exchange for the acquisition of securi- ties or personal real estate abroad. Transactions in se- curities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without express permission. In re- spect of portfolio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. New borrowing abroad is screened by the Permanent Review Committee on Pub- lic Agreements, which for private sector borrowing re- lies on the recommendations of the Bank of Ghana. Private medium-term and short-term import credits in excess of (2 100,000 require approval by the Bank of Ghana. Lending to nonresidents is prohibited, except for export credits; these require exchange control ap- proval and normally are limited to 60 days. Borrowing abroad by commercial banks requires the prior ap- proval of the Bank of Ghana. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or mining according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be autho- rized by the Ministry of Trade, Industries, and Tourism in collaboration with the Bank of Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by permit under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, no Ghanaian resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold from, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities are not normally licensed; imports for industrial use are very small, a specified commercial bank being the sole im- porter. The import duty on bullion and partly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their entire output in semire- fined form. Exports by any one person or firm in excess of 100,000 ounces are subject to export tax at a rate of £ 3.00 per troy ounce. Changes during 1974 January 1. Importers had to furnish, before the end of each quarter, returns on the utilization of each im- port license issued to them (Notice to Importers No. 416 of November 2, 1973). The requirement that all specific licenses must be fully or partially committed within three months from the date of issue remained in force. January 1. Special unnumbered licenses for imports were abolished. These had been issued where evidence could be produced that no transfer of foreign exchange had been or would be involved. January 15. The Bank of Ghana began releasing for- eign exchange to the commercial banks for the payment of import bills and approved service payments of more than 0 5,000 but not exceeding 0 10,000 which were unpaid for want of foreign exchange and in respect of which the cedi counterpart was paid to the commercial banks after February 5, 1972. January 23. The validity of import licenses granted for 1973 was extended from December 31, 1973 to March 31, 1974. (However, the opening of letters of credit for 1973 licenses had been discontinued on De- cember 15, 1973.) Subsequently, their validity was ex- tended to June 30, 1974, provided that letters of credit had been established, or bills for collection committed, on or before December 15, 1973. March 13. An Agreed Minute was signed with credi- tor countries regarding the rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term external debts. March 31. An Executive Instrument was published which required a specified gold mining company and a specified diamond mining company to pay a royalty of 6 per cent of the market value of all minerals produced during each calendar year. The Instrument took retro- active effect from October 1, 1972. April 4. Retroactive to January 1, import shipments valued at US$2,000 or less, f.o.b., became exempt from preshipment inspection, except when constituting part of a larger order. June 14. The Bank of Ghana announced that it would release foreign exchange to the commercial banks on June 25, 1974 for the payment of import bills which were due for payment by the end of September 1971 and for approved service payments which were unpaid for want of foreign exchange and in respect of GHANA which the cedi counterparts were paid to the commer- cial banks by the end of September 1971. June 21. The Imports and Exports Decree, 1974 was published (Decree No. 260). It set out new unified im- port and export regulations, which came into effect on July 1. They were of a procedural nature only. June 28. The Capital Investment Board was charged with the coordination of all new foreign investment in Ghana. July 1. The Imports and Exports (Fees) Regulations, 1974 (Legal Instrument 929 of June 25) changed the registration fees charged for import licenses and pay- able to commercial banks to (2 25 for open general licenses and {2 50 for specific licenses. The rates of levy on import licenses remained unchanged, at 5, 10, 20, and 30 per cent. July 10. Agreement was reached with Poland to place settlements on a convertible currency basis. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland expired on December 31. August 2. Notice to Importers No. 417 was pub- lished, which set out the import licensing procedures for 1975. In its main features the Notice continued the policy in effect for 1974. However, the goods requiring specific import licenses were now contained in two lists instead of three. The list of restricted items comprised those goods previously on the restricted list as well as those that had been banned items; licenses for goods on this list would not normally be issued. The other list comprised the commercial items subject to specific li- cense. Imports of Government departments and corpo- rations had to be made through the Ghana Supply Commission. Applications for specific licenses for 1975 had to be submitted by September 30. Applications for an extension of the validity of licenses expiring on De- cember 31, 1974 would only be entertained in special circumstances. August 22. With effect from August 23, the Gold (Special Export Levy) Decree, 1974 (Decree No. 269) increased the export tax on gold from (2 2.50 to (2 3.00 per troy ounce on exports by any person in excess of the first 100,000 ounces exported by that person. The Spe- cial Export Levy on Gold Decree, 1973 (Decree No. 195) was repealed. August 23. With immediate effect, the Imports and Exports (Amendment) Decree, 1974 (Decree No. 272) amended sections 2, 6, and 16 and repealed section 3 of the Imports and Exports Decree, 1974. The principal effect was to abrogate the open general license system. August 23. The budget statement provided that unre- mitted profits would be eligible for favorable transfer arrangements when invested in large-scale farming. The Capital Investment Board was charged with imple- menting the scheme. Among its provisions were (1) for every (2 1 invested, the immediate transfer of (2 0.20 out of accumulated dividend would be granted; (2) for every (2 1 net after-tax profit realized out of the new investment, the transfer of (2 0.05 out of accumulated dividend would be granted; (3) in addition, of the 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA earned after-tax profit realized from the project, a transfer of 0 0.30 per (2 1 would be granted; (4) for every 0 1 of profit which could have been repatriated from the agricultural project but was again invested, a (£ 0.50 transfer would be allowed out of the investor's accumulated dividends; and (5) where the crop culti- vated by an investor had a gestation period of more than one year, such an investor would, for the first five years of the gestation period, be granted an annual transfer (out of accumulated dividends) of 0 0.50 per 0 1 invested. The same facility would apply to any additional investment made for the expansion of the project. In the special case of oil palm plantations, the rate of permitted transfer would be (2 0.15 per 0 1 of investment. August 23. Legal Instrument 963 amended with im- mediate effect the Customs and Excise Tariff Regula- tions, 1973 (L.I. 838) by prohibiting the import of certain used motor vehicles, including all passenger au- tomobiles more than three years old. August 23. Legal Instrument 968 amended with im- mediate effect the Imports and Exports (Fees) Regula- tions, 1974 (L.I. 929) by increasing the levy on import licenses for certain goods from 10 per cent to 15 per cent, and to 50 per cent for a wide range of textile products (statistical numbers 652 and 653). August 27. The Budget (Supplementary Provisions) Decree, 1974 repealed the exemptions of all Depart- ments of State and all statutory corporations from im- port du ty, excise du ty, sales tax, and vehicle purchase tax. September 17. The Bank of Ghana announced that no fu r ther letters of credit could be opened against 1974 import licenses. Imports on a sight or collection basis could still be made against such licenses, provided they were shipped before December 31. On September 27, the Bank of Ghana announced that its prior approval was required for payments for imports on a collection basis when shipped after October 15. September 17. With effect from September 20, No- tice to Importers No. 419 reduced by 50 per cent the face value of all 1974 import licenses in respect of which no letters of credit had been opened. On September 27, the Bank of Ghana announced that this 50 per cent cut would not be applicable to licenses issued for importa- tion from "trade pact countries" i.e., from payments agreement countries. September 27. Bank lending to the import trade was restricted to the level as at the close of business on September 27. September 27. Manda to ry cash marg ins against im- ports came in to effect. The rates applicable were nil for crude oil and fertilizers; 50 per cent for indus tr ial raw materials, chemicals, spare parts, drugs and other med- ical supplies, and bu i ld ing materials; 75 per cent for machinery, equipment (including transport equipment other than automobiles), and lubricants; and 100 per cent for all other goods, inc lud ing private passenger automobiles. The cash margins were to be deposited in a special account w i th the Bank of Ghana, which would re fund them to the banks when bills were submitted for paymen t. October 11. The Currency Regulations, 1974 (Legal Ins t rument 984 of October 4) were gazetted. They per- mitted the import and export by travelers of Ghanaian currency notes up to {£ 20, subject to declaration, and the import by travelers of any amount of CFA francs, subject to declaration and exchange for Ghanaian cur- rency notes. Furthermore, resident travelers were per- mitted to take w i th them foreign currency notes not exceeding the equ iva lent of <£ 100 (up to <£ 20 in any one currency), while nonresident travelers could take out any foreign currency notes or d ra f ts they had previ- ously imported. Previously, the import and export of Ghanaian currency notes were prohibited, w i th one m inor exception for residents leaving for travel abroad. November 29. Customs controls over imports and exports by overland routes were tightened, with retro- active effect f rom Ju ly 1. December 31. All ou ts tand ing specific import li- censes issued in 1974 lapsed. (Subsequently, Notice to Impor ters No. 421 of Janua ry 10, 1975 announced that the ir va l id i ty would not be extended and that re- placement licenses would on ly be issued in exceptional cases; in addition, all 1975 import licenses were re- voked.) NOTES 1 Au s t ra l ian dollars, Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA f rancs, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Nige- rian niara, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, and Swiss f rancs. 2 Ghana ma in ta ins such agreements w i th Bulgaria, Peo- ple's Repub l ic of Ch ina, Cuba, Egypt, Guinea, Poland, Ro- mania, U.S.S.R., Upper Volta, and Yugoslavia. The agreements w i th Cuba and Guinea are at present inoperative and that w i th Poland expired on December 31, 1974. Certain se t t lemen ts between Ghana and Dahomey are channeled th rough accounts wh ich the Bank of Ghana and a commercial bank in Dahomey maintain w i th each other. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0272838 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma, and Greece has established a central rate of Dr 30 = US$1. On October 19, 1973, however, Greece announced that it would not for the time being ensure that the rates for the drachma would be kept within the margins hitherto observed. On Decem- ber 31, 1974 the Bank of Greece (the central bank) quoted official rates for the U.S. dollar of Dr 29.90 buying and Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1. l The interven- tion currency is the U.S. dollar. Rates for other curren- cies are determined daily on the basis of the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Greece and the rates for the currencies concerned in international mar- kets. The Bank of Greece offers forward exchange cover in U.S. dollars only. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination and Planning and the Cur- rency Committee. Exchange control policy is made by the Currency Committee, the Credit Subcommittee, the Foreign Exchange Control Subcommittee, and the For- eign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Require- ments, and import policy is made by the Ministry of Commerce. Exchange control is implemented, and im- port approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commercial banks. Import and export li- censes are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce, and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent min- istry. The authorized banks may make exchange settle- ments relating to permitted trade transactions and may grant residents a standard travel allowance. All other exchange payments require the approval of the Bank of Greece. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made through con- trolled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account. Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies, with authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with transfers from other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any with- drawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right of the sums withdrawn. The maximum rate of interest on such accounts is 1.5 per cent per annum. Nonresidents may also make time deposits in con- vertible foreign exchange for a minimum period of 90 days with authorized foreign exchange banks; interest rates on the deposits range between 5.5 and 7.5 per cent per annum, according to their term. Particular regula- tions apply to nonresident investors (including Greek nationals permanently residing abroad) enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see sec- tion on Capital, below). They may establish time depos- its, for a minimum period of six months and with a minimum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of 7.0-8.0 per cent, according to their term, and princi- pal and interest are freely transferable at maturity in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 750 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control author- ities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000 a visit, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that the funds were held before December 31, 1963; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, from accounts opened after January 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may be transferred abroad if the prior approval of the Bank of Greece is obtained. All transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. Blocked bal- ances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Greek citizens (including seamen) who are employed abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may establish, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign currency accounts with au- thorized banks in Greece. Merchant seamen may de- posit their wages and salaries in these accounts, 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE provided that the funds originate abroad and, if they are received in drachmas, that they are obtained through the intermediary of a shipping firm established in Greece. Balances on these accounts earn interest at 3.0 per cent per annum for sight deposits, up to 11.0 per cent per annum for time deposits, and 7.5 per cent per annum for savings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convert- ible into foreign exchange as long as the holder contin- ues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years thereafter. Somewhat similar facilities for foreign cur- rency accounts exist under a Housing Loan Deposit Scheme. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports (ex- cept those of goods on Lists F, P, and P-12 with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less for which payment will be made through an authorized bank) require approval. For most imports, prior ap- proval is required; however, for certain commodities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without prior approval, provided that approval is obtained subsequently. The granting of an import approval implies that appropriate foreign exchange will be made available. Apart from imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to imports, mainly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports from countries previously participating in the European Monetary Agreement (EMA) when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally convertible European currency; (2) for im- ports from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement authorizations under U.S. aid; and (3) for imports from countries with which Greece has con- cluded bilateral payments agreements when payment is to be made through the relevant clearing account. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import ap- plications which have been approved by an authorized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, for certain imports effected for the account of the State, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. Import approvals must be obtained prior to ship- ment and require the presentation of a certified pro forma invoice. Import licenses are only required for imports of com- modities in List A (including gold, precious stones, jewelry, furs, perfumes, textiles, automobiles and parts, television receivers, and certain foodstuffs) and List B 208 (certain types of machinery and spare parts). For a few items on List A licenses are being issued restrictively, but for others they are issued automatically. Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products simi- lar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, and wheat and flour, sul- fur, and motion-picture films, as well as barter transac- tions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of applying regulations concerning payments for imports and advance deposit require- ments, all private imports are classified in eight lists (P, P-12, F, F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and F-200). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by acceptance of time drafts (which is permitted only for goods in Lists P and P-12, there being no time limit for List P but a limit of one year for List P-12, which may be extended for a further six months with the permission of the Bank of Greece). The Ministry of Commerce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in the P Lists. When time drafts are accepted, a personal written undertak- ing amounting to 4 per cent of the amount of the draft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made within the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in Lists F-100/1 and F-200, further cash deposits of 40 per cent and 100 per cent, respectively, of the c.i.f. value are required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under procedure E, this deposit must be made when the im- port approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made within 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time drafts. When payments for imports are to be made against sight drafts, advance deposits in cash are re- quired for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and F-200.3 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepay- ment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not re- quired for capital goods and spare parts that are ex- empt from import duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. Prepayment Security In per cent of invoice value list F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-100/1 List F-l 00/2 List F-200 50 32 100 64 140 20 12.8 40 25.6 60 Total 70 44.8 140 89.6 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced. When imports are financed with U.S. aid funds, a further deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days (for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days (for the provinces) of obtaining the import ap- proval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are refunded; however, for goods in- cluded in Lists F-50/1-2, F-100/1-2, and F-200, the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of two to eight months from the date on which they were made. The bank receiving the deposit must redeposit it with the Bank of Greece. Certain companies, public agencies, and organiza- tions that have been designated public service institu- tions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Advance payments may be made to foreign suppliers for all imports against delivery of shipping documents or against a letter of undertaking issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agen- cies, public entities, and public utility companies. Ex- cept for goods in Lists P and P-12, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months after the date of import approval. Final settle- ment of the value of imported goods must take place within 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place within 120 days following the date of arrival for goods in Lists P a nd P-12. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2-5 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Residents going abroad for family reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to the equivalent of US$250 for one trip a year; instead of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Requests for larger amounts or for other types of travel are submitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee for Financial Requirements. It does not grant additional foreign exchange for tourist travel, but it normally provides foreign exchange for other travel as follows: up to US$1,500 a trip for exporters, indus- trialists, and hotel managers; up to US$350 a trip for GREECE other businessmen; up to US$500 a trip for newspaper editors and travel agents; up to US$800 a trip for scien- tists attending international meetings; and up to US$400 a trip for newspaper reporters. For medical treatment abroad it provides any amount for transfer direct to a foreign hospital, or up to US$1,200 which the patient may take out. It also provides up to US$320 a month for studies in the United States and Canada and up to US$250 a month for studies in other foreign countries (for postgraduate studies, up to US$375 and US$330, respectively). Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maxi- mum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Greek nationals, not including those resident abroad, are required to declare all domestic and foreign banknotes and other valuables taken with them upon leaving Greece. Non- resident travelers on leaving Greece may freely take with them up to US$500 in foreign banknotes declared upon entry, provided that departure is within six months of arrival; the export of larger amounts or any export after a visit of more than six months is subject to general or specific approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports re- quire individual licenses, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds must be sur- rendered within 180 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manufactures and up to one year for other commodi- ties. The Ministry of Commerce may license barter transactions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of fruit, or wines; such transactions are permitted with Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. In addition, any commodity may, subject to individual authorization by the Bank of Greece, be exported on a barter basis to Albania, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of China, and Iran. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement, but ship- owners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 750 in Greek banknotes. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior ap- proval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal financial re- quirements. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Non- 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE resident travelers of foreign nationality may import any amount of foreign currency and need not declare it at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may freely borrow convertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are subject to approval. Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved foreign investments which aim at the promo- tion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment. 4 Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 and by Legislative Decree No. 916 of July 14, 1971, further privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 90 mil- lion in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation facilities for foreign investments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legisla- tion mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year from the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year from the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of divi- dends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits trans- ferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign ex- change earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Leg- islative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the trans- fer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative De- cree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and prof- its of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can ex- ceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can 210 be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be ap- proved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in en- terprises of special importance to the economy. Speci- fied foreign short-term investment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require ap- proval. The purchase abroad of securities or of real estate for personal use is not normally permitted. Gold Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (mainly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; purchasers must sign a statement to the effect that the coins will only be resold to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to December 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formal- ity only to the Bank of Greece or to an authorized bank and at the official price. Residents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import Lists A and F and require a special license issued by the Ministry of Com- merce; licenses are normally issued to reputable im- porters for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported freely by commercial banks and other resi- dents as well as nonresidents when no payment in for- eign exchange is involved. Exports of gold other than by the Bank of Greece are not approved with the excep- tion that gold bars or coins brought in by travelers and declared upon entry may, with the prior approval of the Bank's Credit Subcommittee, be re-exported by the same person. Changes during 1974 January 4. The Bank of Greece changed its official buying and selling rates from Dr 29.10 and Dr 29.30 to Dr 29.90 and Dr 30.10 per US$1. These rates were maintained unchanged during 1974. January 31. Agreement in principle was reached that settlements with Brazil would be placed on a convert- ible currency basis. (At the end of 1974, settlements were still being channeled through the clearing ac- counts.) February 18. Banks no longer required the prior ap- proval of the Currency Committee to issue guarantees in favor of importers buying goods from clearing countries on credit terms. March 3. The Government announced the lifting in principle of all remaining quantitative restrictions on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution private sector imports. The items affected included pas- senger automobiles and television receivers. (Some items on List A, however, remained restricted.) March 9. Seven import items were taken off List A and two were added. March 9. A new import category, List F-200, was established. Goods on this list required an advance deposit of 200 per cent of the c.i.f. value, to be retained for eight months; they included passenger automobiles, alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, cigars, cigarettes, watches, television and radio receivers, and precious stones and precious metals. This list was to be abol- ished at the end of 1974. Automobiles henceforth would be licensed freely; previously licenses for these were restricted but the deposit requirement was only 14 per cent, to be held for four months. March 9. Certain goods were shifted to Lists F-100/1 and F-50/1 from other import lists where they had been subject to lower advance deposits and shorter retention periods. The retention period for advance de- posits against a large number of items on Lists F-100/1 and F-50/1 was extended to four or six months. March 9. Imports of passenger automobiles by pri- vate persons were freely permitted, subject to a limit of one car per family and subject to a deposit of 140 per cent of the c.i.f. value, to be retained for four months. March 9. Imports of passenger automobiles from clearing countries no longer qualified for preferential treatment. March 16. Imports under barter (compensation) transactions were temporarily reserved for the public sector; licenses were no longer issued to private import- ers. April 1. A decree was published which formally de- leted from the prohibited import list and from the list of imports subject to license, certain goods whose im- portation had been liberalized on March 9. May 1. The sixth reduction in import duties for prod- ucts subject to the 22-year transitional period under the Treaty of Association with the EEC took place. Ad- vance deposits for these items (Lists F-50/2 and F-100/2) were reduced from 50.4 per cent to 44.8 per cent and from 100.8 per cent to 89.6 per cent, respec- tively. May 1. Domestic banks no longer were permitted to finance with domestic credit those imports of industrial machinery and similar capital goods valued at over US$500,000 for which appropriate suppliers' credit could not be obtained. Such imports henceforth had to be financed either with suppliers' credit for at least five years or with foreign currency credits provided by banks (from their own or foreign resources) and also have a maturity of at least five years. On September 16, GREECE domestic banks were again permitted to finance such imports with drachma credits. May 30. Greece signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. July 22. Most exports were suspended. For most commodities the ban was lifted on August 1. July 22. Administrative measures were taken to de- lay the processing of import approvals. The restrictions were progressively relaxed in subsequent months. September 19. Imports of books, periodicals, and newspapers were liberalized. September 28. Many of the goods affected by the March changes in the import deposit scheme were shifted back to the import lists on which they had appeared prior to March 9, 1974, thus reducing the required level and duration of the required deposit. October 1. The foreign exchange allowance for stu- dents was increased to US$320 a month for studies in the United States and Canada, and to US$250 a month for studies in other foreign countries. For postgraduate studies the allowance was increased to US$375 and US$330, respectively. October 4. Imports under private barter transactions were permitted again. November 1. The tenth and final reduction in import duties for products subject to the 12-year transitional period under the Treaty of Association with the EEC took place. These items (Lists F-50/3 and F-100/3) became duty free and also were exempted from advance deposit requirements. Lists F-50/3 and F-100/3 were abolished and the items on them were shifted to List F. December 1. The 200 per cent advance deposit re- quirement for passenger automobiles and all other items on List F-200 was extended until June 30, 1975. NOTES 1 In addition to the U.S. dollar, the Bank of Greece main- tains official quotations for Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Cyprus pounds, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. It also quotes banknote rates for various foreign currencies. 2 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Al- bania, Brazil, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czecho- slovakia, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Most settle- ments with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a dormant bilateral account for settlement with Chile of nitrate imports. The termination of the clearing arrangements with Brazil was agreed in principle in January 1974 but has not yet taken effect. 3 Commodities not included in these Lists, or in Lists P or P-12, are included in List F. 4 This Decree also provides for the opening of foreign cur- rency accounts by nonresidents and the retransfer of the de- posits as well as the transfer of interest thereon. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Guatemalan Quetzal, corresponding to Q 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes ex- change rates for certain other currencies1 on the basis of their rates in the New York market. On January 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control but all inward and outward transfers are recorded for statistical purposes by the Bank of Guatemala. Foreign exchange transac- tions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Guatemala; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of autho- rized banks appointed by the Monetary Board. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments to and from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, and Nicaragua are normally set- tled in Guatemalan quetzales through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse es- tablished by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. There are no obligations prescribing the cur- rency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, lead, poultry, wheat flour, basic food grains, cottonseed, and used trucks and trailers. Imports of coffee beans, coffee plants, sol- uble coffee, and tallow are prohibited. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely and in any cur- rency. Imports originating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for and pro- ceeds from invisibles. All international air passages are subject to a tax of 10 per cent. Residents and nonresi- dents may freely bring in or take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes and other means of pay- ment. The export of gold and silver coins, however, is prohibited (unless the Bank of Guatemala issues a spe- cial export license), with the exception that travelers may take out up to Q 25 in silver coins that are legal tender in foreign countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items. Exports of a few other items are prohibited. The pro- ceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on inward or outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. All investment by foreign or foreign-con- trolled companies in the construction of private hous- ing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. Investment in the petroleum sec- tor is governed by special legislation. Gold The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it, either directly or through the banks, and is entitled to require the surrender, directly or through authorized banks, of the gold holdings of any resident. The Bank sells gold to domestic artistic or industrial users, in accordance with directives of the Monetary Board. The export of gold coins is prohibited except when the Bank of Guatemala issues a special export license. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1974 May 17. The export of scrap metal was prohibited. June 21. Decree No. 50-74 came into force, which introduced new, progressive taxes on exports of coffee, cotton, sugar, beef, and shrimp. No taxes were previ- ously levied on exports of sugar and beef. July 1. Exports of basic food grains, agricultural raw materials, and wood were prohibited. NOTE 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Syli, defined as a monetary unit contain- ing 0.036 gram of fine gold. On December 31,1974, the rate maintained by Guinea for the U.S. dollar was GS 20.463 = US$1, subject to commissions; all trans- actions under bilateral payments agreements were set- tled at GS 20.46 = US$1, and the official buying and selling rates for banknotes were GS 18.80 and GS 22.50, respectively, per U.S. dollar. Fixed exchange rates are also maintained for certain other major cur- rencies, including deutsche mark, French francs, and pounds sterling; these rates are adjusted from time to time. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. The Presidency is charged with supervision over the Central Bank. All settlements with foreign countries, including payments for imports, require approval by the Exchange Control Office. Import and export licenses are issued, within the framework of an annual program, by the Ministry of Foreign Trade after applications have been screened by the National Licensing Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements with other countries are made in designated "convertible" currencies.2 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Non- resident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Sylis. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Control Office. Imports and Import Payments All imports, other than those under the Seven-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade, after applications have been screened and approved by the National Licensing Commission. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by foreign concession holders require import licenses for statisti- cal purposes only and are not restricted. Most imports into Guinea are made within the framework of an annual import program. This program is prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Trade on the basis of the country's import needs, the domestic pro- duction possibilities of import substitutes, and experi- ence with the previous year's import program. The program requires the approval of the National Licens- ing Commission, which takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain items are imported outside the import pro- gram. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea—e.g., imports made by foreign concession holders (the "mixed economy companies" and the Sifra Company) and by foreign embassies—and goods for the Seven-Year Plan and the Boke bauxite project. All commercial imports other than those by the "mixed economy companies" (including the Friguia Company and the Guinea Bauxite Company) and the Sifra Com- pany are made by state enterprises that specialize in the various types of commerce. All commodities are subject to import surcharges, except when imported by the "mixed economy compa- nies." Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Control Office, irrespective of the country to which the payment is to be made, unless financed from retained export proceeds (see below). Payments for freight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import li- cense. No exchange is granted for other types of insur- ance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist or business travel; each applica- tion is considered individually. Government officials on official missions are permitted an allowance of GS 400 a day. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equiva- lent of GS 6,000 for each pilgrimage and, in addition, up to GS 19,000 to pay for fares connected with the pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, provided that a doctor's certificate is submitted, residents are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permit- ted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiv- ing medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for family support may be made up to monthly amounts determined on the merits of the case. For officially recognized study abroad, the student's parents may transfer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GS 2,250 a month. Stu- 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA dents beginning their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GS 4,000. The Foreign Investment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually permitted to be trans- ferred abroad depends on the agreement concluded be- tween the enterprise concerned and the Government. Expatriate workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries and those employed by the private sector are permitted to transfer up to 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries. The export of Guinean cur- rency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of Foreign Trade establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the National Licensing Commission. All exports require individual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (par- ticularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreements); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., mining companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores exported); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic con- sumption; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Spe- cial authorization from designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the following com- modities: wild animals (dead or alive), edible animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds imme- diately after they are collected. Exports other than those effected by the "mixed economy companies" are made by three state enter- prises: Prominex, Proseco, and Frutex. Foreign plant- ers are granted special transfer privileges related to the quan t i ty of pineapples, bananas, or citrus fruits ex- ported. All export proceeds must be surrendered; however, the Sifra Company is allowed to retain 662/3 per cent of its export earnings, the Guinean Bauxite Company may retain 35 per cent of net taxable profits, and pri- vate traders may also be permitted to retain a part of their export proceeds in order to finance authorized imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of foreign banknotes and travelers checks is permitted freely, sub- ject to declaration on entry, but both must in principle be surrendered within 24 hours after entry. Nonresi- dent travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon entry, after deduction of their local expenditures; this deduction cannot be less than 214 the equivalent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expenditure was less. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require authorization. Outward capital transfers by Guinean nationals are prohibited. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 50 /AN762) of April 5, 1962, which replaced a more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guarantees against the national- ization of foreign investments in the industrial and min- ing sectors; it also provides for preferential tax and customs treatment applicable to foreign investments and for the transfer of profits, interest, amortization, and liquidation proceeds of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GS 15 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive tax exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term invest- ments of particular importance to the Guinean econ- omy. The actual conditions under which foreign investments may be made are subject to negotiations within the terms of this law. Gold Guinea has issued four commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for numismatic purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial us- ers are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1974 March 15. The Friguia Company was required to repatriate and surrender its full export earnings. Previ- ously, it was allowed to retain abroad 66% per cent of its export earnings. NOTES 1 Guinea maintains bilateral payments agreements with Algeria, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, German Democratic Republic, Egypt, Ghana, Hun- gary, Lebanon, Morocco, Poland, Romania, Senegal, Sierra Leone, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. There is also a com- pensation arrangement with a private firm established in Switzerland. Some of the agreements are inoperative. (Fur- thermore, agreements negotiated with Albania, Cameroon, North Korea, and Liberia have never come into force.) 2 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Libyan dinars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.409256 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar and Guyana avails itself of wider mar- gins. Since June 23, 1972 the effective parity relation- ship for sterling has been maintained at G$5.2114 = £ stg. 1. Consequently, all transactions, except those in sterling or currencies maintaining a fixed relation- ship with sterling, take place at fluctuating exchange rates. The Bank of Guyana normally deals only in Bar- bados dollars, Canadian dollars, East Caribbean dol- lars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. On December 31, 1974, its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were GS2.21716 and GS2.22922 and those for sterling were GS5.2081 and G$5.2342. In its dealings in Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars with commercial banks, the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of V16 of 1 per cent on inward transfers and 7/i6 of 1 per cent on outward transfers; it charges a commission of V8 of 1 per cent, buying and selling, in dealings in Barbados dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars. The commercial banks' charges for Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars are %6 of 1 per cent buying and 5/8 of 1 per cent selling. Their buying and selling rates for Barbados dollars, East Caribbean dollars, Jamaica dollars, and Trinidad and Tobago dollars are V4 of 1 per cent either side of parity. Guyana formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Minister of Finance who has entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving normal im- port payments and providing allocations of foreign ex- change for other current payments up to specified amounts is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose; certain payments in respect of current invisi- bles of a personal nature, however, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing generally is the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade; imports from CMEA countries and the People's Re- public of China as well as all imports of specified goods are made only by the External Trade Bureau. Prescription of Currency Guyana has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Exchange control applies to all countries, and all currencies other than the Guyana dollar are considered foreign currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by resi- dents of Guyana to residents of countries outside Guy- ana may be made in any foreign currency or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside Guyana may be ob- tained in any foreign currency (in any listed specified currency1 for export proceeds) or in Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for persons resident in any country outside Guyana except Rhodesia. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents and with transfers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited freely for payments for any pur- pose to residents of any country, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require ap- proval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., certain capital proceeds). These accounts may be deb- ited for certain authorized payments, including the pur- chase of approved securities. In practice, no funds have been directed into Blocked Accounts in recent years. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal and its dependencies, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources; for some goods, however, the prohibition is not applicable if they qualify for duty-free access (under the rules of origin applicable to imports from countries of the Ca- ribbean Common Market —CARICOM). All permissible imports (except gifts, parcel post items, and trade sam- ples up to a specified value), irrespective of origin, are subject to individual licensing. The granting of individ- ual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quota while others are licensed freely. Import licenses for commodities originating in Albania, Bulgaria, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are granted freely, but such imports must be effected through the External Trade Bureau. The External Trade Bureau has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities from all 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA sources (including coffee, cereals, and dairy products). Certain foodstuffs may be imported only by the Guy- ana Marketing Corporation, e.g., those that fall under the agricultural marketing protocol of the CAR IFTA /CAR ICOM Agreement. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documen- tary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be com- pleted for all transactions exceeding G$240. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries require ap- proval, except for tourist travel and depreciation allow- ances, which usually is given freely, provided that no illegal capital transfer seems to be involved. The stan- dard exchange allocation for tourist travel has been suspended, and foreign-based companies (other than those based in CARICOM countries) and their subsidiar- ies are prohibited from transferring depreciation allow- ances. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal nature on an annual basis, e.g., for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each child), for education at universities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each student), and for family maintenance (G$4,800 for each family). Resident and nonresident travelers are subject on departure to an exit tax of G$3 a person. Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$15; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, foreign currency notes up to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allowance. Nonresident travelers may within one mon th from their last entry take out any foreign cur- rency notes declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal and its dependencies, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice may only be made by the Guyana Rice Marketing Board. Certain other exports also are channeled through official agencies. Most exports are free of ex- port license, but are supervised by the Bank of Guyana and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in listed specified currencies1 surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed for all exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies1 received on account of invisi- bles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in foreign banknotes; domestic banknotes may be brought in by returning travelers only and must not exceed G$15 a person. 216 Capital Foreign investors must obtain from the Bank of Guyana "approved status" for new investments at the time of investment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct in- vestments in new projects that would benefit the bal- ance of payments or the economy of Guyana; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment, the proceeds, including any capital increments after payment of all taxes, may be repatriated in full in the currency of the original investment. For the time being, however, for- eign-based companies (other than those based in the CARICOM area) and their subsidiaries are prohibited from exporting depreciation allowances and from bor- rowing in Guyana. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Listed specified currencies1 obtained by resi- dents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Emigrants of Guyanese nationality may not transfer abroad any part of their capital assets other than a settling-in allowance of G$100 for each member of a family unit; emigrants of foreign nationality may ex- port all declared capital assets, viz., G$4,000 at the time of emigration and G$3,000 in each following calendar year. Any unremittable capital proceeds must be re- tained in Guyana indefinitely, but the funds are not directed into Blocked Accounts. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guy- ana for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins for numismatic purposes, at home or abroad. Neither the Bank of Guy- ana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade; such licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and indus- trial users. Changes during 1974 January 5. Imports of many types of garments, fab- rics, haberdashery, and footwear were made subject to specific licensing and to quotas (amounting to 70 per cent of the 1973 import value). January 17. The standard exchange allowance for tourist travel was reduced from G$666 a person a year (which could be accumulated up to G$2,000 for any three-year period) to GS333 a person a year (or G$ 1,000 every three years). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 17. The settling-in allowances granted to emigrating Guyanese nationals out of declared capital assets in Guyana were suspended until fur ther notice. The suspension applied to new as well as previous emi- grants. The rate at which emigrating nonnationals could take out all declared capital assets was reduced from G$24,000 on departure and G$ 17,280 each year afterward, to G$4,000 on departure and G$3,000 each year afterward. January 24. The Exchange Control (Import and Ex- port) Order set the amount of Guyana currency notes that a traveler could take out at G$15, which amount could be brought in again on return. Any other impor- tation of domestic banknotes by travelers or others was prohibited, including the importation by commercial banks in Guyana for conversion into foreign exchange. Previously, travelers could take out Guyana notes up to G$100, and there was no limit on the amount of Guy- ana notes that could be imported. January 24. The standard exchange allowance for tourist travel was suspended until fur ther notice. January 24. Foreign-based companies, other than those based in CARICOM countries, and their subsidiar- ies were prohibited from transferring abroad funds rep- resenting depreciation allowances. They were also prohibited from borrowing in Guyana and were in- structed to reduce their indebtedness to the domestic banking system. GUYANA January 25. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom were suspended. January 26. Imports of five commodities were pro- hibited when originating in non-CARlGOM countries (potatoes, brandy, whiskey, carpets, and automobiles with an engine capacity of more than 1,600 cubic centi- meters). March 12. Exports of assets and equipment used in Guyana by oil companies or their agents were made subject to specific approval of the Ministry of Trade. April 3. All imports, irrespective of origin, were placed under specific licensing, with the exception of gifts, parcel post items, and trade samples up to a speci- fied value. Quotas were imposed on imports of toys and of automobiles of 1,600 cubic centimeters and less. April 30. A variable levy was imposed on sugar ex- ports, retroactive to January 1, 1974. December 16. The Government announced its inten- tion of taking control over all foreign trade. NOTE 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.147332 gram of f ine gold per Haitian Gourde, corresponding to G 5.00 = US$1, and Haiti does not avail itself of wider margins. The par value is applicable to all transactions. The in terven t ion currency is the U.S. dollar. In addition to the gourde, the U.S. dollar is legal tender. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to forma l ly accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control law, and no obligations prescribing the method or currency for paymen ts to or from nonresidents are imposed. Exchange regulations are issued by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti and are implemented by that Bank and certain commercial banks. The banks review certain requests for foreign exchange to ascertain that no unauthorized capital transfers are involved. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quan t i ta t ive restrictions on imports, import licenses are not required. Impor ts f rom member countries of the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance and Japan, however, require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. The M in is try's prior authori- zation is also required for impor ts f rom any source of certain types of footwear and of a few other items that are controlled for other than balance of paymen ts rea- sons. The domestic ma rke t ing of certain impo r ts is con- trolled by the State Tobacco Monopoly. Importers opening letters of credit at the National Bank are re- quired to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit. Certain imports are subject, in addition to the applicable import du ty, to surcharges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c . i . f. value; goods subject to the 4 per cent or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Importers must also pay an "economic liberation tax" levied on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior authorization f rom the M in is t ry of Commerce and I n d u s t r y. Export authoriza- tion is usually granted free ly but may be w i thhe ld when domestic supplies are low. Exports of essential oils are shipped by the Association of Haitian Exporters of Essential Oils. Gold coins, gold and silver bu l l ion, etc., may be exported on ly by the National Bank. The pro- ceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Exporters must pay an "economic liberation tax" levied 218 on the amount of the customs invoice; when this amount exceeds G 10,000, the tax is 1 per cent. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No ex- change control requirements are applied to proceeds from invisibles. A regulation which is not enforced pro- hibits the export and import of U.S. banknotes in de- nominations of over $20. Residents traveling abroad must pay a tax of G 20 on tickets to a destination in the Caribbean area and G 50 on tickets to a destination outside that area; diplomats and staff of international organizations are exempt. Capital Capital transfers abroad are not normally permitted but impor ts may be made free ly. Residents may hold capital assets abroad in any form other than gold. For- eign inves tment in Haiti is regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and requires prior government approval. Permission is not normally gran ted to nonresidents for investments in hand icraft industries. Under a decree of April 6, 1973, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a m in imum of 85 per cent of their liabilities to local customers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone ta ry authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. By v i r tue of a law of August 31, 1942, the National Bank has the exclusive right to purchase domestically and export gold in the fo rm of coins, mineral, dust, or bars. Impo r ts and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made on ly by the National Bank; exports require in addition prior authorization by the M in is try of Fi- nance, wh i le imports for industrial use require prior authorization by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus- try and the M in is t ry of Finance as well as an endorse- ment by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry before customs clearance. However, commercial imports of articles con ta in ing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are free ly permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. Several gold coins have been issued, which are legal tender but do not circulate. Changes during 1974 No s ign i f icant changes took place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.368331 gram of fine gold per Honduran Lempira, corresponding to L 2.00 = US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buying, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes in Costa Rican colones, Guate- malan quetzales, Nicaraguan cordobas, and Salva- doran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an official exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restrictions; however, for statistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stat- ing how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Hondu- ras may do so only with the Central Bank of Honduras or through the banking system for account of the Cen- tral Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras formally notified the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on July 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempiras through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse es- tablished by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Honduran lempiras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Pay- ments and transfers abroad may be made freely; how- ever, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Certain imports require prior Central Bank approval when they are to be made on credit terms, and certain other imports are subject to this requirement irrespective of the terms of payment. The import of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes is the monop- oly of the National Development Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports other than gold do not require licenses but must be registered. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Honduran Cof- fee Institute. The export of corn, rice, beans, and pota- toes is the monopoly of the National Development Bank, and lumber exports are centralized by the Hon- duran Forest Development Corporation (COHDEFOR). Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange con- trol. However, by virtue of Decree No. 73 of Oc- tober 30, 1969, the authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance is required for all activities im- plying the receipt of resources and their transfer abroad for purposes of investment in mutual funds, housing developments, real estate, or similar activities. Foreign mutual funds and similar financial institutions require permission to collect funds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The approval of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Economic Planning, and the Central Bank is required to contract any foreign indebt- edness, whether for import financing or other purposes. The foreign liabilities of the banking system are subject to ceilings. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hon- duras for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Cen- tral Bank; such licenses are not normally granted ex- cept for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the form of ore for refining. Commercial imports and exports of jewelry and other articles containing gold require li- censes issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted freely. Changes during 1974 April 18. Decree No. 122 introduced an export tax of L 0.025 per pound on bananas shipped to traditional markets. The measure was modified on August 29, by Decree No. 143. June 10. Decree No. 340 gave the National Develop- ment Bank a monopoly over the import and export of corn, rice, beans, and potatoes. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG 1 (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar. The central rate is HK$5.0850 per US$1. Since November 25, 1974, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate for the Hong Kong dollar within the previous official limits of HK$4.9706 and HK$5.1994 per US$1. On Decem- ber 31, 1974, the banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were HK$4.880 and HK$4.940, respec- tively. Administration of Control There is no exchange control. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Indus t ry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Sterling Area, a l though it has ceased to be a Scheduled Terri- tory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. No prescription of currency requirements are in force; settlements between residents of Hong Kong and non- residents may be made and received freely in Hong Kong dollars or any other currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresi- dent accounts. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain du t iab le commodities and a few other items wh ich are controlled for health and security reasons, impor ts are free of license. However, all goods originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia require an import license. All imports must be declared to the Department of Commerce and Industry. Payments for permitted impor ts may be made freely, at any time and in any currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for strategic goods, foods tu f fs, electrical products, and some other items for which control is imposed to enable Hong Kong to fu l f i ll certain in terna t ional obligations; textiles are also subject to licensing, par t ly because of a number of bilat- eral arrangements with specified countries under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. All exports must be declared to the Department of Commerce and Industry, which is also the export licensing authority. Export proceeds may be collected at any time and in any currency. They need not be repatriated or surren- dered. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Resident and nonresident travelers may freely bring in and take out any amount in domes- tic or foreign banknotes, travelers checks, and other means of payment. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Gold There is a free market for gold in which dealings by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted. Imports and exports of gold in any form (including finished jewelry) are freely permitted and do not require li- censes. Residents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong or abroad. Changes during 1974 January L The Import and Export (General) Regu- lations (Amendment of First and Second Schedules) Order, 1973 came into force. Licenses ceased to be required for the import of gold and diamonds and for the export of gold, diamonds, and currency notes and coins. January L The export of plastic raw materials re- qu ired a license. The requirement was terminated with effect f rom November 1. July 19. The import of methyl alcohol required a license. November 25. It was announced that the rate for the Hong Kong dollar would not be maintained, for the time being, within the permitted margins of HK$4.9706 and HK$5.1994 per US$1 (based on the central rate of HK$5.0850 per US$1). The Hong Kong dollar subsequently appreciated to about HK$4.69 per US$1 in mid-December but had fallen back to about HK$4.92 per US$1 by the end of the year. NOTE 1 Hong Kong is a nonmetropolitan territory in respect of wh ich the Un i ted K ingdom has accepted the Fund's Articles of Agreement. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00830471 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Krona. A central rate has been established of 0.00792269 gram of fine gold per Icelandic krona. No exchange transactions take place at the par value or the central rate, since no announced margins have been observed since June 15, 1973. The official rates on De- cember 31, 1974 were IKr 118.30 buying and IKr 118.70 selling, per US$1. Rates for other curren- cies are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the dollar rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. Rates for settlements through the clearing account with the U.S.S.R. are fixed; the buying and selling rates maintained for clearing kronur by the Central Bank of Iceland on December 31, 1974 were IKr 0.9886 and IKr 1.0014, respectively. The au- thorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbi- trage in foreign markets. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, after consulting the Cen- tral Bank, has the ultimate decision on matters con- cerning import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsi- ble for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, including capital controls, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to resi- dents is surrendered to authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest commercial banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only authorized banks. The authorized banks issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Iceland has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Iceland maintains a bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R., and all settlements with that country must be made exclusively through a clear- ing account denominated in kronur. As a general rule, exchange receipts from other countries must be ob- tained in convertible currencies. In practice, settle- ments with countries in the dollar area and with Brazil are made in U.S. dollars; with countries in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with certain other countries, in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident krona ac- counts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires individual ap- proval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for payments to residents and may without a license be converted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, ster- ling, or other convertible currencies. Special Accounts in kronur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved pay- ments from residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list may be imported freely without an import license from any country; some 90 per cent of total imports is liberalized. Some 30 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and may be subject to quantitative restriction. Some of these commodities are admitted, subject to individual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral payments agreements.1 The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted from the same countries on the basis of individual li- censes issued on a discretionary basis ("other licens- ing"). The principal items involved are petroleum products; the only other industrial goods on the list are brooms and brushes. All goods on the restricted list require individual licenses. Certain imports are admit- ted only under state trading; these include fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages. Further- more, fresh vegetables and potatoes are imported under the auspices of the Agricultural Production Board in accordance with a government authorization. None of these commodities, however, is subject to quantitative restriction. For imports from all sources, when requiring a li- cense, a fee of V2 of 1 per cent (minimum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the krona amount of the import license when the license is issued; for petroleum products, however, this fee is 0.1 per cent. The commer- cial banks require certain advance deposits in connec- tion with certain import transactions. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Impor ters of goods not requ ir ing licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to ship- ment f rom abroad, provided that the purchase is pay- able at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the impor ter has arranged w i th an au tho- rized bank for payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require individual li- cense, foreign exchange is granted in accordance w i th the terms stipulated in the license. Impor ters may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 mon ths f rom the date of arrival at an Icelandic port for listed goods corresponding to some 70 per cent of 1970 imports; the goods not listed are ma in ly building materials and nonessential goods (including motor ve- hicles for personal use). Credit in excess of 3 mon ths and not exceeding 12 mon ths requires permission by an authorized bank and the M in is t ry of Commerce. For- eign credit in excess of 12 mon ths is subject to govern- ment authorization. Impo r ts from all sources of motor vehicles and mo- torcycles are subject to an import surcharge of 35 per cent ad valorem; the surcharge is 20 per cent, however, for buses and heavy trucks, and ambulances and certain other u t i l i ty vehicles are exempt. Furthermore, many impor ts f rom all sources are subject to a temporary deposit of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value.2 Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government pay- ments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to in- ternational organizations, payments for postal, tele- graphic, and telephone services), for bank ing commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona f ide documents. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 30,000 (about US$250) a person for one trip a year (IKr 15,000 for children): if a second trip is made in the same calendar year, an additional allocation of 50 per cent of the basic allocation is granted. Applications for exchange for major repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transactions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance busi- ness operations abroad are considered on their merits. The chartering of foreign ships usually is not allowed when Icelandic vessels are available for charter on nor- mal terms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in de- nominations not exceeding IKr 100. Nonresident trav- elers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in upon entry. 222 Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The ship- ping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports must be surrendered w i thout undue delay. All fish products are subject to export levies. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered w i thout undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and aircraft are, w i th the approval of the autho- rized banks, permitted to retain their foreign exchange receipts from fre igh t, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities for the homeward journey of the ship or aircraft. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the coun try where the foreign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in de- nom ina t ions not exceeding IKr 100. There are no limi- tations on the import of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are sub- ject to individual approval. The participation by non- residents in Iceland's jo int stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the fishing indus try. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for f inanc ing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in excep- tional circumstances. The contracting of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection w i th the import of industrial raw materi- als for which the production process is lengthy, the import of construction materials, and so fo r th. The authorities permit the use of suppliers' credit of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of speci- fied imports, including motor vehicles for personal use, various household appliances, specified foods, various types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. The authorities may in special circumstances allow import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credit in excess of 90 days for such items as machinery, aircraft, or ships. Transfers of capital abroad by resi- dents require approval, which is granted only in excep- tional cases; transfers by individuals are generally limited to IKr 50,000 a year. However, direct invest- ment abroad for the purpose of assisting the marketing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is prohibited. Outward transfers of inheritances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits and are restricted. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported funds; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale of these assets and securi- ties requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concerning them are subject to licens- ing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Gold A commemorative gold coin with a face value of IKr 10,000 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold in Iceland, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. How- ever, citizens returning to Iceland after a period of resi- dence abroad may freely bring in any gold in their possession. Changes during 1974 January 7. The global quota list for 1974 went into effect. January 3. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were changed from IKr 83.60 and IKr 84.00, respectively, to IKr 84.50 and IKr 84.90. These rates were further adjusted on a number of occa- sions. Only the principal modifications are listed below. February 8. Iceland ceased to invoke Article XII of the GATT. May 9. A commemorative gold coin with a face value of IKr 10,000 was issued. May 17. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to IKr 92.80 and IKr 93.20, respectively. May 17. The surcharge on imports of motor vehicles and motorcycles was increased from 25 per cent to 35 per cent, and that on imports of buses and heavy trucks from 15 per cent to 20 per cent. ICELAND May 20. A temporary import deposit scheme for the period through September 30, 1974 was introduced. When purchasing exchange for imports or taking up import documents against a bill of exchange or a prom- issory note, importers were required to deposit with authorized banks domestic currency corresponding to 25 per cent of the value of the goods. The bank was to transfer the deposit to the Central Bank, where it re- mained blocked for 90 days, after which it was to be refunded, together with interest of 3 per cent per an- num. Deposits were payable also where no payment in foreign exchange was to take place. The principal ex- emptions were for cereals and fodder, coffee, sugar, tea, cacao, salt, petroleum products, fishing gear, fertilizers and seeds, raw materials for industry, wine, spirits, tobacco, pharmaceutical products, and newsprint. Fur- thermore, no deposit was required where it would have amounted to IKr 1,000 or less, or where goods were being imported on credit terms exceeding 12 months. May 30. Iceland signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. August 15. Travelers were not permitted to purchase foreign exchange more than three days prior to depar- ture. August 15. Banks were instructed not to sell foreign exchange in respect of obligations to nonresidents prior to the due date. August 22. The exchange market was closed. It re- opened on September 2. September 2. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were changed from IKr 98.20 and IKr 98.60, respectively, to IKr 118.30 and IKr 118.70. September 2. The basic exchange allocation for tour- ist travel was changed from IKr 25,000 to IKr 30,000 a person for one trip a year. September 6. The import deposit rate was lowered from 25 per cent to 20 per cent. It was announced that the deposit scheme would be phased out over the period to January 1, 1975 by four further reductions of 5 percentage points each. These took place on October 1, November 1, December 1, and January 1. October 3. The interest rate payable on import depos- its was increased from 3 per cent to 5 per cent per annum. NOTES 1 With effect from January 1, 1975, imports of additional items (beer made from malt, portland cement, furniture, and transformers) were liberalized. 2 The temporary deposit scheme was terminated with effect from January 1, 1975. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee. A central rate of Rs 18.9677 = £ stg. 1 has been established. The Reserve Bank of India main- tains fixed buying and selling rates for sterling and consequently transactions in all currencies other than sterling and currencies directly linked to sterling and other than the Nepalese rupee take place at fluctuating rates. At the end of December 1974, the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for its operations in sterling with authorized dealers were Rs 18.75 and Rs 18.85 per £ stg. 1. The rates of exchange for transactions in sterling have been prescribed by the Reserve Bank. Transactions in foreign currencies other than sterling and currencies directly linked to sterling and other than the Nepalese rupee are conducted through authorized dealers at rates fixed on the basis of market conditions, subject to spot transactions being done at or between the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. In addition, the Reserve Bank stands ready to purchase U.S. dollars, deutsche mark, and Japanese yen, spot and forward. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover their re- quirements of foreign currencies in the London market and to cover their permitted transactions in certain listed currencies (the "permitted currencies")1 against rupees or any one of these currencies, either spot or forward for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the Bilateral Account group.2 On December 31, 1974, market rates for telegraphic transfers on New York were US$12.53 buying (clean) and US$12.40 selling, per Rs 100, and the Reserve Bank's rates were US$12.4950 buying spot, and US$12.4575, US$12.3850, US$12.3150, and US$12.1700 buying forward (for 1, 2, 3, and 6 months' delivery, respectively) per Rs 100. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover to autho- rized dealers by purchases of sterling for up to 9 months' delivery initially (and extendable up to 12 months), of U.S. dollars for 1, 2, 3, and 6 months' delivery, and of deutsche mark and Japanese yen for 1, 2, and 3 months' delivery. In addition, the Bank offers forward cover in these four currencies in respect of exports of specified capital and producer goods, for periods of 18 months to 10 years from the date of conclusion of the export contract. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of ex- change control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy 224 and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. With re- spect to direct investments in India, all collaboration proposals, with or without equity participation, are re- viewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, the general or spe- cific approval of the Reserve Bank is necessary for the continuance of commercial, industrial, and trading ac- tivities in India of companies with more than 40 per cent nonresident interest or for the establishment by them in India of any branch, office, or other place of business for carrying out any such activity. The Reserve Bank's prior permission is also required by nonresi- dents, noncitizens, nonbanking companies not incorpo- rated under Indian law, and Indian companies with more than 40 per cent nonresident interest for acting or accepting appointment as agents or technical advisers of any person or company in India in the trading or commercial transactions of such persons or companies. Import and export licenses are issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency India has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: Bilateral Account countries,2 and External Account countries (all other countries). Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropri- ate clearing account. Payments to 14 External Account countries3 may be made in rupees to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group or in the currency of any country or territory in this sub- group. Payments to all other External Account countries may be made in (1) the currency of the coun- try concerned; (2) the currency of any country of the subgroup mentioned; or (3) rupees to the account of a resident of any country in the External Account group.4 Receipts from 14 External Account countries3 may be obtained in rupees from the account of a bank in any External Account country, or in the currency of any territory in this subgroup. Receipts from all other Ex- ternal Account countries may be obtained in (1) the currency of the country concerned; (2) the currency of any territory in the subgroup mentioned; or (3) rupees from the account of a bank in any External Account country. Notwithstanding the foregoing, special rules may be applicable in respect of Afghanistan, Bangla- desh, Burma, Egypt, the Sudan, and exports under lines of credit extended by the Government of India to the governments of certain foreign countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts The accounts of Indians and of Nepalese and Bhuta- nese nationals resident in Nepal and Bhutan, as well as the accounts of offices and branches of Indian, Nepa- lese, and Bhutanese firms, companies, or other organi- zations in Nepal and Bhutan are treated as resident accounts.5 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in two groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescrip- tion of currency purposes, i.e., Bilateral Accounts and External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of private firms (includ- ing banks) or persons, with proceeds from sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the ac- count holder, and with proceeds from sales of the cur- rencies of External Account countries. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other pay- ments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including banks), provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of External Ac- count countries. Transfers may be made from External Accounts to other External Accounts. All other entries on Bilateral and External Accounts, with the exception of debits by way of payments to residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Ordinary nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; refunds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresi- dent banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and surrender value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an ap- proved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; and proceeds of checks, provided that the aggre- gate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, maturity proceeds of all types of secu- rities and shares as well as sale proceeds of securities and shares sold on stock exchanges in India and the repurchase price of units issued by the Unit Trust of India may be freely credited to his account. Where the account holder (in the case of a joint account, any of the account holders) is a foreign national, authorized dealers may freely credit the sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities and the repurchase price of units, provided that the securities had been originally INDIA purchased either out of funds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and in the case of sale pro- ceeds, that the sale was made on the stock exchange. Ordinary private nonresident accounts, as well as blocked accounts maintained by persons of Indian na- tionality or origin who are resident abroad, with a bal- ance of Rs 50,000 or less may be freely debited for local payments. Other ordinary private nonresident accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on life insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due from the account holder in India; contributions to the Na- tional Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored charity; al- lowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents in India; investments in Indian Gov- ernment securities and in units issued by the Unit Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporarily resident in India. For ordinary nonresident accounts of Indian nationals or persons of Indian origin, as well as blocked accounts of such persons with balances in excess of Rs 50,000, the holders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week during their stay and, in addition, a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annually may be debited for any purpose during an account holder's stay in India. Other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted from non- resident accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally cred- ited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. Special regulations cover funds lodged in National Defence Remittance Scheme Special Accounts repre- senting rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds from sales of certificates issued under the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be in- vested domestically or be used for other expenditures in India. Withdrawals from such accounts with bal- ances of Rs 50,000 or less held by persons of Indian nationality or origin may be made freely for any pay- ments in India. Nonresident (External) Accounts may freely be opened by authorized dealers in India for persons of Indian nationality or origin resident outside India. They may be freely credited with new funds remitted through banking channels from the country of resi- dence of the account holder. They may also be credited, after approval by the Reserve Bank, with funds from any other nonresident account of the holder, provided such funds are eligible for remittance. The accounts may be freely debited for disbursements in India and for transfer abroad. Interest on moneys standing to the credit of such accounts is exempt from income tax and freely transferable. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA There are also blocked accounts, to which are cred- ited capital proceeds and payments that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Assets in India of Indian emigrants in excess of the amount allowed to be remitted are also required to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in Indian rupee securities and shares quoted on stock exchanges in In- dia (other than bearer securities); the income derived from such investments can be remitted to the owner's country of residence in accordance with the special instructions issued by the Reserve Bank at the time of opening a blocked account. For Indian nationals who were granted emigration facilities prior to January 1, 1963, net income from investments financed from blocked accounts is allowed to be remitted in fu l l. For those granted such facilities between January 1963 and April 1968, remittances of income from assets left be- hind are limited to Rs 20,000 a year. No income of any kind is remittable to persons who obtained emigration facilities after April 30, 1968. Imports and Import Payments Specified items may be freely imported under an open general license. Practically all other imports re- quire individual licenses. Imports of specified raw ma- terials, spare parts, and components required by "core" and "priority" industries, including small-scale indus- tries, and by units in other industries that had an export performance of 20 per cent or more of their production during the previous year, are licensed liberally. Licenses for raw materials and components are issued on a con- tinuing basis generally by way of importers claiming replenishment of goods actually consumed during a period of not less than 3 and not more than 12 months. As for spare parts, licenses are issued annually on the basis of prescribed percentages of the c.i.f. value of the imported machinery and of indigenous machinery hav- ing imported components. Licenses to actual users for imports of raw materials, components, and spare parts are not granted wholly against free foreign exchange, but partly against tied-aid credits from particular countries or against rupees in bilateral clearing ac- counts. However, a greater preference with respect to the permitted origin of imports is accorded to actual users with specified minimum export performance. In- dividual licenses may be issued (1) ad hoc, (2) on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period, (3) to actual users on the basis of their requirements, and (4) to registered exporters in accordance with the import content of their exports. Generally, licenses may be used to import from any country except Namibia (South West Africa), Pakistan, Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa, and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China; imports from these countries (except Pakistan) are prohibited.6 Such li- censes are referred to as General Currency Area Li- 226 censes, as distinct from Specific Licenses, which are issued for capital goods and other supplies against tied aid and are valid only for imports from the country or countries providing the assistance. Single Country Li- censes are issued for certain imports from countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in force. Licensing policy generally accords priority to food- stuffs, fertilizers, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or prohibited. The import pro- gram for the period ending March 31, 1975 contains a prohibited list7 of 1,090 commodities and a list of 455 items that are licensed on a "restricted basis," i.e., in minor amounts and only if comparable domestic prod- ucts either are not available or are inadequate. Licens- ing is in most cases on an annual basis. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, heavy electrical plant, and goods imported to fulfill government contracts and for irrigation projects. Favored treatment in allocating foreign exchange for imports of capital goods and equipment is given to "core" industries and "priority" industries. An import replenishment scheme enables registered exporters to obtain specified raw materials and other items needed for their export production; these commodities include certain items whose import otherwise is banned. In licensing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earning or saving foreign exchange, and the availability of medium-term or long-term cred- its for financing such imports are taken into account. Import licenses for machine tools and other capital goods valued at more than Rs 750,000 are not granted until Indian producers have been given an opportunity by public advertisement to supply them; licenses are only issued if offers by domestic producers are dispro- portionately expensive or unacceptable for other rea- sons, or when no offers are received within 45 days. For certain types of steel castings and forgings, this policy applies to all orders of more than Rs 50,000. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presen- tation of the exchange control copy of the license. Li- cense holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remitting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submit- ted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where depos- its have to be made with overseas manufacturers, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. The import of certain commodities, including food- grains, certain oils and fats, a number of pharmaceuti- cal products, corkwood, raw cotton, raw jute, cashew nuts, most fertilizers, most nonferrous metals, and many categories of steel is reserved for the Government or state trading enterprises, the most important of which are the State Trading Corporation (STC), the Jute Corporation of India, the Food Corporation of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution India, Hindustan Steel Ltd., and the Minerals and Met- als Trading Corporation. For 1974/75, the number of such commodities was raised by 10 items to 210 items. In addition, imports of natural rubber, sulfur products, vitamins, and antibiotics are normally arranged under the auspices of the STC. Bulk imports of certain raw materials that are not reserved for the public sector may also be arranged by state agencies, including the Indus- trial Raw Materials Assistance Centre (IRMAC). In addition to any applicable import duty, imports are subject to an auxiliary duty of 5, 15, or 20 per cent ad valorem. Exemptions include foodgrains, raw cot- ton, tallow, and books. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obli- gations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign cur- rency to foreign nationals temporarily resident in India may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. Profit remittances by branches of foreign firms, companies, and banks require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Remittances of dividends by Indian companies to their nonresident shareholders also re- quire prior Reserve Bank approval. Remittances of div- idends by entirely foreign-controlled companies are limited when reserves are drawn on to finance the divi- dends. Otherwise there are no restrictions on the remit- tance of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiaries permanently resident outside India (except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the National Defence Re- mittance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared, except where such repatriation rights have been voluntarily surren- dered. However, remittances to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or after January 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968, of pensions and dividends and interest on shares, securi- ties, and deposits held in India are subject to an overall limit of Rs 20,000 a year and to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigration facilities. For persons who have been granted emigration facilities af ter April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship, no remittance of income is al- lowed. Foreign nationals temporarily resident in India on account of their business, profession, or employment are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the sup- port of their families, and for other expenses. Autho- rized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign INDIA nationals, other than nationals of the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, Portugal, and Rhodesia, to the ex- tent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a maximum of Rs 2,360 a month (Rs 1,500 a month for nationals of Bangladesh). Requests for the remittance of larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or edu- cation abroad are considered on an individual basis and require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Under the Foreign Travel Scheme, 1970, residents are permit- ted to travel abroad without "P form" formalities pro- vided they have not visited any place outside India, other than Bangladesh, Mauritius, Nepal, or Sri Lanka, during the period of three years immediately preceding the date of the journey; if traveling by Indian carrier on a round-trip ticket, they are entitled to foreign ex- change up to US$100 or its equivalent. The scheme is applicable to all destinations except Bangladesh, Mau- ritius, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. Under the Mauritius Travel Scheme, substantially the same facilities are available for travel to Mauritius, except that any visits to Mauritius with either a grant of foreign exchange by the Reserve Bank or passage booked with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank, as well as visits to other countries under the Foreign Travel Scheme, are to be ignored for determining the traveler's eligibility under the three-year rule. There are no restrictions on travel to Bangladesh and Nepal, while passages may be booked freely for air travel from Madras, Tiruchirapalli, or Trivandrum to Colombo, Sri Lanka. The schemes mentioned do not preclude access to other travel facilities (for purposes such as business travel or attendance at conferences or semi- nars, etc.) that may be approved under normal proce- dures. Foreign exchange for tourist travel, however, is not normally granted except under the two schemes mentioned above. Travel agents and airlines and steam- ship companies are not permitted to book passage abroad for persons resident in India (other than foreign nationals temporarily resident in India) unless the trav- eler is eligible under the Foreign Travel Scheme or the Mauritius Travel Scheme, has been granted travel ex- change by the Reserve Bank, or has been specifically granted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.8 Travel abroad to attend conferences is unre- stricted provided expenses are covered by the host insti- tution. The export of Indian currency notes and coins, ex- cept to Nepal, is in general prohibited. The export to Nepal of Indian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also prohibited. Deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa and passengers to Pakistan or Sri Lanka may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Indian notes and coins (within the limit of Rs 30 for Indian and foreign currency notes combined). Resi- dents proceeding to Bangladesh for business or private purposes may take with them Indian currency notes up 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA to Rs 20 a person a trip. Residents may take out for- eign notes and coins up to £ stg. 3.50 or its equivalent a person; exchange bureaus of authorized dealers and authorized money changers at airports and seaports are permitted to sell foreign currency notes up to a value of £ stg. 3.50 or its equivalent a person to all passen- gers, whether Indian or foreign, but not to deck passen- gers or travelers proceeding to Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Pakistan, or Sri Lanka, or to foreign nationals who are transit passengers or passengers holding open-dated tickets (including return tickets) issued out- side India. Travelers to Pakistan may take Pakistan rupees in notes or coins up to the equivalent of Rs 30 a person; travelers to Sri Lanka and deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, or East Africa may take £ stg. 1.50 a person. Nonresi- dents may take out the foreign currency which they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers and authorized money changers in India. A foreign travel tax, at the rate of 15 per cent on first class fares and 10 per cent on economy/tourist class fares, is payable where the fare for an international journey is paid in Indian currency; tickets paid for in foreign exchange are exempt from the levy. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed freely to all shippers; a few may be exported through estab- lished shippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports to Namibia (South West Af- rica), Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa, and the Tibet region of the People's Republic of China are prohibited.9 Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export proceeds will be received and dealt with in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the proceeds of exports, in most currencies10 must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or he is a foreign national not permanently resident in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surren- dered within six months of shipment or, if the goods are sold to Afghanistan or Pakistan, within three months of shipment. The Reserve Bank may allow an extension of the six-month period where exports of capital goods or engineering goods are concerned. Some major exports, including jute manufactures, are subject to export duties. Some exports, including engineering goods, mica, tobacco, handwoven woolen carpets, and lac are subject to minimum prices. Some exports, mainly new manufactures such as engineering goods, receive cash assistance. The cotton textile indus- 228 try also receives cash assistance. An import replenish- ment scheme provides preferential import licensing fa- cilities for producers of manufactured goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in most currencies10 must be surrendered. All bills rendered by hotels to foreign tourists and to nonresident Indian nationals, other than bills rendered to nationals of Bilateral Account countries, Bhutan, and Nepal, and such other foreign nationals and nonresident Indians as are specifically exempted from compliance with this rule by the Indian Government, must be collected by the hotels in foreign currency. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passengers from Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Pakistan and Sri Lanka, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presenta- tion of evidence that they previously had exported this amount from India. Persons coming to India from Burma, other than deck passengers, are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a decla- ration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival if the value of foreign notes and coins together with the value of the travelers checks brought in exceeds US$1,000 or its equivalent. Persons holding foreign currency notes may sell them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to any authorized money changer. Capital Inward capital transfers are, in general, unrestricted, but their subsequent utilization in India in most cases is subject to approval. Foreign investments, once ad- mitted, are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank or in the interbank market to finance their normal business oper- ations in India; repayment of such borrowings requires the prior approval of the Reserve Bank and may be effected only when the debtor bank has no outstanding borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign borrowing by nonbank Indian companies is subject to Reserve Bank approval; only in exceptional cases is permission granted for any loan which has not been obtained as an official or officially guaranteed credit by the Central Government. Reserve Bank permission is required for initiating, expanding, or continuing in India any business activity, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or holding or acquiring shares of any company carrying on a trading, commercial, or industrial activity in India, by nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and Indian companies with over 40 per cent nonresident interest. The Reserve Bank will allow the latter companies to continue their activities, provided Indian participation is not less than 26 per cent of the equity of the company and the com- pany is engaged in production in "core" industries, in predominantly export-oriented production (i.e., at least 60 per cent of output for exports), or in manufacturing activities which require sophisticated technology; tea plantations are included among companies benefiting from this provision. Companies engaged predomi- nantly in trading activities or not meeting the other criteria listed will be required to reduce their foreign shareholding to 40 per cent within a specified period or convert their character to meet the above criteria or wind up their activities in India. In exceptional cases, companies not meeting the criteria but which have de- veloped skills, expertise, or facilities, or use technolo- gies not indigenously available, may be permitted greater than 40 per cent foreign participation, provided that the latter does not exceed 76 per cent. Branches of foreign companies other than airlines and shipping companies must in all cases convert themselves into Indian companies. All companies are subject to "dilution" formulas, as follows: companies with foreign direct holdings exceed- ing 75 per cent must raise 40 per cent of the estimated cost of expansion through additional equity capital is- sued to Indians; for companies with foreign holdings above 60 per cent but below 75 per cent, and above 51 per cent but below 60 per cent, the corresponding pro- portions are 33 V3 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively. No new foreign equity is permitted in companies en- gaged predominantly in internal trading and commer- cial activities. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, residents are prohibited from lending to, or de- positing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 per cent. Noncitizens, non-Indian firms, and nonbank Indian firms with more than 40 per cent foreign participation must obtain Reserve Bank permission in order to ac- quire, hold, transfer, or dispose of immovable property within India (except when a lease for a period of not more than five years is involved). Nonresidents besides the above categories of persons and companies must obtain Reserve Bank permission to allow the use of their trademarks by others for any consideration, and to obtain or continue employment in India as agent or technical or management adviser of Indian persons or companies. Residents are prohibited from engaging in any trans- action which increases the nonresident share of a busi- ness outside India in which the nonresident interest is 49 per cent or less, and they are prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from holding, acquiring, transferring, or disposing of immovable property out- INDIA side India (except where a lease of not more than five years is involved). Residents also require Reserve Bank approval for transferring any interest in a business in India to a nonresident, a noncitizen, a nonbank com- pany not incorporated under Indian law, or an Indian company with over 40 per cent foreign participation. Furthermore, Reserve Bank approval is required for residents exporting Indian securities to any place out- side India and transferring Indian securities to nonresi- dents. Residents are prohibited—except with Central Government or Reserve Bank permission—from guar- anteeing the obligation of a nonresident or the obliga- tion of a resident in favor of a nonresident, and are also prohibited, except with Central Government permis- sion, from associating with or participating in any busi- ness concern outside India. Capital invested in approved projects after Janua- ry 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, including capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time; the public has been advised, however, to obtain the Reserve Bank's prior approval before effecting a sale when repatriation of the assets may exceed Rs 1 million. The proceeds of approved sales are allowed to be remitted in installments, usually of Rs 1 million a year, when the amounts sought to be repatriated are significant. The proceeds from liqui- dated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Indian nationals (including persons permanently res- ident in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In excep- tional cases of hardship, foreign exchange may be re- leased up to a limit of the equivalent of Rs 25,000 in one lump sum at the time of emigration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income are blocked and no further remittances, including pensions, if any, are al- lowed. Foreign nationals who are temporarily resident in India (other than foreign diplomatic personnel and Bangladesh, Chinese, Pakistani, Portuguese, and Rho- desian nationals) are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own countries the pro- ceeds from the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 100,000 for each family at the time of retire- ment and the remainder in annual installments not ex- ceeding Rs 30,000, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. Bangladesh na- tionals temporarily resident in India are permitted to transfer, besides their current assets in full, the sale proceeds of their capital assets up to a limit of Rs 50,000 for each family at the time of their retire- ment, and the remainder in annual installments of Rs 20,000. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The acquisition, sale, trans- fer, export, or other disposal of foreign securities re- quires approval. Persons resident in India are permitted 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA to hold foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange regulations; residents, other than foreign nationals not permanently resident in India, who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities or personal real estate outside India. Indian nationals resident abroad and wishing to re- turn to India to take up employment or to set up small industrial units are upon application exempted, for a period of three years, from the requirement that any foreign currency balances in their possession be surren- dered within 30 days of arrival. As an alternative to holding such balances in the form of foreign currency, the holder may use the funds for the import, subject to import license, of equipment and capital goods. Fur- thermore, these persons have the option of surrender- ing their balances immediately, with the right to reacquire them within three years in the event of their deciding to go back to a foreign country. These various facilities are not available in respect of earnings arising from employment abroad with any Indian-owned orga- nization. Gold Detailed control is exercised over the manufacture, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in various forms through a Gold Control Administrator. There is a total ban on private possession of primary gold. Al- though there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coins) previously declared, there is restriction on their manufacture and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the acquisition, disposal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such ornaments (which may be of any purity) above specified limits are subject to the requirement of decla- ration. The consumption of gold by industrial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over dealers and goldsmiths through a sys- tem of licensing. Gold refining is under state manage- ment. The Government Mint is licensed to accept tenders of gold for purposes of refining and conversion into standard gold bars, for which strict specifications as to fineness, weight, dimensions, and markings are prescribed. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohib- ited; exports of silver are subject to licenses, which are granted freely. With the exception of jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, imports of gold in any form by residents other than the monetary authorities re- quire special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally permitted; in certain cases, however, jewelers are permitted to manufacture gold jewelry in bond from imported gold, for export purposes only. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry pro- duced in India for export and jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- 230 ties. The export of gold ornaments and jewelry to the Bilateral Account countries and Pakistan is prohibited. Changes during 1974 January 1. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 came into force. It revoked and replaced the For- eign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947. The new or modi- fied provisions of this Act were as follows: (1) Legal sanctions were provided against false invoicing of im- ports or exports and against remittances of funds into India through unofficial channels. The Central Govern- ment was given the right to specify goods which, if exported on a consignment basis, could not (without Reserve Bank permission) be sold at a price less than the price declared at time of shipment. (2) The Reserve Bank was given the right to block securities of persons who had emigrated abroad as well as the bank accounts and securities of prospective emigrants. (3) The Central Government was given the right to require payment in foreign exchange for specific goods and services from persons resident outside India who are on a visit to India, and to exempt any person or class of persons from this requirement. (4) Residents were prohibited, without Reserve Bank permission, from holding, or engaging in any transactions with respect to, immov- able property outside India; exempt from this provision was the acquisition or transfer of such property by lease for a period not over five years. (5) Residents were prohibited from engaging without Reserve Bank per- mission in any transaction which increased to more than 49 per cent the nonresident share of a business outside India in which the nonresident interest was 49 per cent or less. (6) Residents were prohibited from transferring, without Reserve Bank permission, any in- terest in a business in India to a nonresident, a nonciti- zen, a nonbank company not incorporated under Indian law, or any company in India with a nonresident interest of more than 40 per cent. (7) Residents were prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from giving a guarantee in respect of any obligation of a nonresident or in respect of any obligation of a resident due or owing to a person resident outside India. (8) Residents were prohibited, except with Reserve Bank permission, from lending to, or depositing money with, a nonbank firm or company in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 per cent. (9) Residents were prohibited, without Central Government permission, from associating with, or participating in, any business concern outside India. (10) Nonresidents, noncitizens, nonbank companies not incorporated under Indian law, and companies with over 40 per cent nonresident interest, could not take up new employment or con- tinue to be employed in India as agent or technical or management adviser of Indian persons or companies without Reserve Bank permission. (11) Compensation for the use in India of trademarks belonging to the four categories of persons or compa- nies listed in (10) above was made subject to Reserve ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank permission. (12) Reserve Bank permission was made mandatory for carrying on in India any activity of a trading, commercial, or industrial nature, or estab- lishing a place of business in India for such purposes, or acquiring the whole or any part of any undertaking in India (including the purchase of shares) by the four categories of persons or companies listed in (10) above. Reserve Bank permission would be required even for continuing already established businesses of the type described or continuing to hold shares already ac- quired. However, the Reserve Bank was empowered to exempt both specific individuals (or companies) and classes of individuals (or companies) from the require- ment of obtaining its permission for continuing already established businesses or continuing to carry on activi- ties of the types described other than trading activities. (13) Reserve Bank permission was made mandatory for non-Indian nationals taking up any employment, prac- tising any profession, or carrying on any occupation in India, in cases where the individual involved wished to acquire foreign exchange in order to remit abroad earn- ings from such activities. (14) The four categories of persons and companies listed in (10) above were pro- hibited, unless with Reserve Bank permission, from acquiring, holding, transferring, or disposing of any immovable property in India, except in the case of ac- quisition or transfer of such property by a lease for a period not exceeding five years. January 1. The Ministry of Finance guidelines for administering the foreign investment provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 came into ef- fect. Major features of these guidelines were as follows: (1) All branches of foreign companies, except airlines and shipping companies, would be required to convert themselves into Indian companies. (2) Indian compa- nies with more than 40 per cent foreign shareholding engaged in production of priority industries, or export- ing at least 60 per cent of their total production, or engaged in manufacturing requiring sophisticated tech- nology, or consisting of tea plantations, would be per- mitted to continue their activities if they increased Indian participation to not less than 26 per cent within a specified period. (3) Indian manufacturing and trad- ing companies with more than 40 per cent foreign shareholding, and not engaged in the activities specified in (2), would be required either to bring their foreign shareholding down to 40 per cent within a specified period or to change their character to predominantly manufacturing activities of the type listed in (2); certain exceptions might be made where such companies had developed expertise or facilities not indigenously avail- able and were contributing significantly to exports. (4) Indian manufacturing companies with more than 40 per cent foreign shareholding engaged in trading activi- ties in respect of products not manufactured by them would be permitted to trade products in the overall interest of the consumers provided the value of such products did not exceed 25 per cent of the value of total production or Rs 50 million, whichever was less. INDIA January 1. The Reserve Bank issued two Press Notes and a Circular to authorized dealers regarding Sec- tions 28 and 29 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973. In terms of these sections, persons resident outside India (including Indian citizens), foreign citi- zens resident in India, and companies (other than bank- ing companies) incorporated abroad or in which the nonresident interest was more than 40 per cent, as well as branches of such companies, were required to obtain the permission of the Reserve Bank for the following: Under Section 28: (1) To act, or accept appointment, as agent in India of any person or company, in the trading or commercial transactions of such person or company. (2) To act, or accept appointment, as techni- cal or management adviser in India of any person or company. (3) To permit any trademark, which the said persons or companies are entitled to use, to be usedjby any other person or company for any direct or indirect consideration. Under Section 29: (1) To carry on in India any activ- ity of a trading, commercial, or industrial nature. (2) To establish in India a branch, office, or other place of business for carrying on such activities. (3) To acquire, either wholly or partly, any undertaking in India of a person or company carrying on any trade, commerce, or industry. (4) To purchase shares in India of Indian companies. (5) To continue to hold shares of Indian companies which were acquired before the commence- ment of the new Act, i.e., prior to January 1, 1974. The permission of the Reserve Bank also was re- quired for the continuance of the arrangements relating to items (1), (2), and (3) under Section 28 above, which were entered into by the said persons or companies prior to January 1, 1974, as also for the continuance of their existing trading, commercial, or industrial activi- ties. January 1. The Reserve Bank issued a Notification stating that under subsection (1) of Section 31 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973, it permitted any company referred to in that subsection: (1) To acquire or hold any immovable property situated in India, provided that (a) such acquisition or holding of immovable property was necessary for or incidental to carrying on by such company of any activity permitted under Section 28 or Section 29 of the Act; and (b) such company filed a declaration, not later than 90 days from the date of such acquisition or holding, giving full particulars of the transaction as might be required by the Reserve Bank in that regard. (2) To transfer, by way of security for any borrowing permitted under subsec- tion (7) of Section 26 of the said Act, any such immov- able property so acquired or held. January 1. The Reserve Bank issued a Notification canceling its Notification of September 12, 1958, which had permitted the transfer of any security or the cre- ation or transfer of any interest in any security by any person resident in India to a foreign national also resi- dent in India. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA January 1. The Reserve Bank issued a Notification permitting any person who is resident in India but is out of India to open with a bank situated out of India an account in foreign exchange and operate thereon during his stay out of India, provided that certain con- ditions were met. The permission would cease to be effective upon the account holder's return to India. January 1. The ban on exports of raw silk was lifted. January L The export du ty on semifinished hides and skins and on leather (excluding leather manufac- tures) was increased from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. January 1. The Reserve Bank issued a number of other notifications, most of which served to continue previous exchange control regulations or exemptions. January 3. Exports of natural rubber were channeled through the STC. January 3. Exports of beef tallow and buffalo tallow were banned. January 3. The Reserve Bank issued a Press Note about immovable property in India. Persons who were not citizens of India and companies (other than bank- ing companies) which were not incorporated under any law in force in India, or in which the nonresident inter- est was more than 40 per cent, had to obtain the permis- sion of the Reserve Bank to acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of in any manner (except by way of lease for a period not exceeding five years) any immovable prop- erty situated in India. This was in accordance with Section 31 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973. Applications for acquiring, holding, transferring, or disposing of any immovable property in India by for- eign citizens and also by foreign companies (the latter as permitted under the notification issued by the Re- serve Bank on January 1, referred to above) and appli- cations for the sale of tea, coffee, and rubber estates in India, which were owned by sterling companies, and remittance of the sale proceeds thereof outside India had to be made in a prescribed form to the Controller of the Exchange Control Department of the Reserve Bank. Persons and companies holding any immovable property in India on January 1, 1974 were required to declare such holdings to the Reserve Bank in a pre- scribed form before April 1, 1974. (This deadline was later extended to May 31, 1974.) Such declarations as well as those under the Reserve Bank notification of January 1, in respect of foreign companies referred to above, were also required to be submitted to the Cen- tral Office of the Reserve Bank. January 4. The Reserve Bank issued a Press Note regarding immovable property outside India. Without the permission of the Reserve Bank, no Indian citizen resident in India or firm or company registered or in- corporated in India could acquire, hold, transfer, or dispose of any immovable property situated outside India. Such permission was not, however, required in respect of immovable property acquired or transferred by way of lease for a period not exceeding five years. Applications for permission had to be made to the 232 Controller of the Exchange Control Department of the Reserve Bank's Central Office. Persons, firms, or companies already holding im- movable property abroad had to declare the holdings to the above office of the Reserve Bank in a prescribed form before April 1, 1974. January 11. The Reserve Bank issued a Notification by which, under subsection (7) of Section 26 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973, it permitted, with respect to a firm or company (other than a bank- ing company) referred to in the said subsection: (1) the making of any security deposit by any employee of such firm or company and the acceptance of such deposit by such firm or company; (2) the making of any payments (whether by way of advance or otherwise) to such firm or company by purchasing, selling, or other agents in the course of, or for the purpose of, the business of such firm or company, or against orders for goods, proper- ties, or services, and the acceptance of such payments by such firm or company; and (3) the lending of any money to, or the making of any deposit with, such firm or company, as had been permitted under (1) and (2) to borrow money or, as the case might be, to accept deposits. January 11. The Reserve Bank issued a Notification under subsection (6) of Section 26 of the Foreign Ex- change Regulation Act, 1973 permitting authorized dealers to give performance bonds or guarantees (in- cluding those in lieu of earnest money) in favor of over- seas buyers on account of bona fide exports from India. The same Notification redelegated powers, as fol- lows: (1) to authorized dealers, to give guarantees in favor of persons resident in India in respect of any debt or other obligation or liability of persons resident out- side India; and (2) to firms and companies resident in India, to give guarantees to income tax officers and other authorities under the Income Tax Act, 1961 in respect of taxes due by nationals of foreign states in the employ of such firms or companies. January 14. The Reserve Bank issued a Press Note explaining the provisions of its notification issued on January 11 about lending money to, or making depos- its with, foreign firms and companies, and advising persons who intended to lend money to, or make de- posit with, a firm or company of the kind referred to, to satisfy themselves that the firm or company con- cerned had been permitted to borrow money or accept deposits. Firms or companies of the kind referred to intending to borrow money from any bank authorized to deal in foreign exchange in India were required to submit an application in the prescribed form to the bank con- cerned. Where, however, they proposed to borrow from other sources or to accept deposits from residents in India, the registered, head, or principal office of the firm or company had to make an application in the prescribed form direct to the office of the Reserve Bank within whose jurisdiction the applicant's office was sit- uated. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 18. An agreement with the United States was signed under which that country relinquished its claim to the major part of its rupee holdings. February 19. The ban imposed in 1943 on exports of silver was lifted. On February 21 it was announced that exports of silver would be licensed freely (except on a consignment basis). March 1. Exports of rayon tire yarn, rayon tire cord, and rayon tire fabrics were banned. March 4. The Reserve Bank was prepared to pur- chase deutsche mark spot and forward, for one, two, and three months' delivery. Previously, forward cover was given only for purchases of sterling and U.S. dol- lars. March 5. Exports of certain varieties of blended yarn were banned. March 5. Exports of molasses, ethyl alcohol, and rectified spirits were banned until November 1. March 23. The export duty on hessian was raised from Rs 200 to Rs 600 a ton, that on primary carpet backing from Rs 250 to Rs 650 a ton, and that on secondary carpet backing from Rs 300 to Rs 750 a ton. An export duty of Rs 150 a ton was reimposed on sacking. March 25. Exports of sunflower oil and sunflower seeds were banned. March 29. The amount that an individual could re- mit abroad to pay for subscriptions or membership fees to bona fide clubs and scientific, technical, or educa- tional institutions was raised from £ stg. 15 to US$100. April 1. A commercial cooperation agreement with the EEC and special agreements with the EEC relating to Indian exports of jute goods and coir products came into effect. April 1. Export licensing policies were tightened for iron and steel products. April 2. The "auxiliary import duty" on goods sub- ject to ad valorem duties of 60 per cent to 100 per cent was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. April 2. The Import Policy for 1974/75 included the following modifications of the import-export regime: (1) Import licenses for raw materials, components, and spare parts issued for the fiscal year 1973/74 were to be automatically valid for utilization on a repeat basis for 50 per cent of their value for the period April-Sep- tember 1974. (2) Manufacturer-exporters were also al- lowed the facility of repeat operation in respect of import replenishment licenses and release orders for items channeled through state trading agencies for 1973/74; the value of licenses utilized under this facility was subject to adjustment against normal import enti- tlements over a period of 18 months from April 1, 1974. Established importers were also permitted to uti- lize on a repeat basis their quota licenses for 1973/74, subject to certain conditions. (3) For units in specified industries, import licenses were to be issued provided that at least 10 per cent of their production was set apart for sales to registered exporters. (4) Units in non- INDIA priority industries were now to get priority treatment if they exported at least 20 per cent of their output. (5) Large-scale industrial units were allowed to import spare parts at the rate of 2V2 per cent of the values of imported machinery (as against 2 per cent previously); the rate of 4 per cent for small-scale units was contin- ued. (6) The ceiling on emergency licenses to actual users for imports of spare parts was doubled to Rs 20,000 for large-scale units and Rs 8,000 for small-scale units. (7) Eligibility criteria for the scheme giving special treatment to export houses were revised in order to make the scheme more export oriented. (8) Ten additional import items were channeled through public sector agencies, bringing the total of such items to 210. (9) An additional 75 import items were prohib- ited. (10) An additional 61 import items were re- stricted. April 4. India signed the Asian Clearing Union Agreement. The agreement came into force on Decem- ber 9. April 25. The Reserve Bank extended until May 31, 1974 the period for submission of declarations of im- movable property held in India by foreign citizens and foreign companies. April 25. Exports of all types of cotton yarn (except singles and folded) were banned until January 1, 1975. May 23. Exports of certain aluminum products were banned. May 29. The Reserve Bank was prepared to purchase Japanese yen spot and forward for one, two, or three months' delivery. June 1. The Reserve Bank offered long-term forward cover in respect of exports of capital and producer goods on deferred payment terms. Such cover was of- fered for deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, and for periods ranging from 18 months to 10 years from the date of conclusion of the export contract. Ineligible were exports whose proceeds were to be cleared through the Asian Clearing Union or under any special clearing arrangement between In- dia and the foreign country concerned, and exports under contracts containing an exchange variation clause linking the price of the goods to the ruling value of the foreign currency concerned in terms of gold or SDRs. June 1. The Mica Trading Corporation of India Ltd. was established. Exports of mica were channeled through it. June 4. The Reserve Bank issued instructions to en- force the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Regula- tion Act, 1973 which made Reserve Bank permission mandatory for remaining outside India beyond the date or period, or for traveling to any place outside India other than such place or places, that might be specified by the Reserve Bank in a traveler's passport, foreign exchange permit, or application for booking passage. June 7. Exports of pure milk ghee were banned. June 8. The arrangement for settlement of transac- tions between commercial banks in India and Bangla- 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA desh on account of travel by residents between the two countries (in Indian rupees through the Nonconvertible Rupee Account No. 2 of Bangladesh Bank with the Reserve Bank of India, Calcutta) was extended until December 31. June 17. The limit on remittances to educational institutions outside India toward fees in respect of ex- aminations held by them in India was raised from £ stg. 12 to £ stg. 30 a calendar year an applicant. June 2L The stand-by arrangement with Nepal was renewed. June 29. The Reserve Bank announced the extension until August 31 of the time limit for the submission of applications to receive permission for: (1) nonresidents, non-Indian citizens, and nonbank companies incorpo- rated abroad or in which the nonresident interest is more than 40 per cent, to continue to carry on trading, commercial, or industrial activities in India; (2) such persons or companies to continue to hold shares of Indian companies; (3) such persons or companies to continue to hold appointments as agents or technical (or management) advisers; and (4) such persons or companies to continue arrangements by which they had permitted the use of trademarks by others. July 8. Following an extension by the import licens- ing authorities of the grace period for effecting ship- ment from 30 days to 60 days beyond the final date for shipment stated on an import license, authorized deal- ers were permitted to open import letters of credit valid up to 75 days beyond the final date for shipment stated on the license, instead of up to 45 days, as previously. July 24. The limit of Rs 20,000 on applications for the import of capital goods and machine tools by small-scale industrial units was raised to Rs 50,000, for imports from the Rupee Payment Area only. July 31. The Reserve Bank permitted remittances abroad to nonresidents of dividends earned for the pe- riod ended June 30, 1974 to be made also where no permission of the Reserve Bank had been obtained by the nonresident concerned to continue to hold the cor- responding shares. However, such permission would be necessary for remittance of dividends for the period commencing July 1, 1974; in the absence of this per- mission, Reserve Bank approval would have to be ob- tained for the particular remittance. August 5. Surplus fares and freight collections of Indian airline and shipping companies operating in Bangladesh, which had previously been repatriated in Indian rupees through the Nonconvertible Rupee Ac- count No. 1 of the Bangladesh Bank with the Reserve Bank (Calcutta), became repatriable in free foreign ex- change. This applied to earnings from July 1, 1974. August 7. Following the promulgation of the Compa- nies (Temporary Restrictions on Dividends) Ordi- nance, 1974, authorized dealers were advised by the Reserve Bank to refer the applications for remittances of dividends to the Bank for prior approval. Such appli- cations were approved as follows: (1) Where the divi- dend proposed to be remitted was declared by the 234 applicant company prior to July 6, 1974, and if such dividend was also paid to the resident shareholders before that date, the applications were approved after the usual scrutiny. (2) Where the dividend was declared and paid to resident shareholders after July 6, 1974, applications were approved after submission of a certif- icate from the applicant company's auditors to the ef- fect that the dividend so declared and paid was within the limits permitted under the Companies (Temporary Restrictions on Dividends) Act, 1974. August 14. Authorized dealers no longer were per- mitted to effect remittances in foreign exchange, or to make rupee transfers to nonresident bank accounts, for amounts of Rs 50,000 or more unless payment was received in the form of a check in the name of the person or firm in whose name the remittance or transfer had been approved by the Reserve Bank. August 17. A special payments arrangement was con- cluded with Burma. Special rupee accounts would be opened by the Punjab National Bank in the name of the Union of Burma Bank, to record payments in respect of imports and exports of specified commodities up to specified amounts. This payments arrangement came into operation on September 21. The relevant instruc- tions were issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports on November 28 and by the Reserve Bank on December 28. August 24. The Reserve Bank tightened certain pro- cedures with respect to the issue of exchange permits. August 31. Outstanding export/import contracts be- tween India and Yugoslavia completed before Decem- ber 31, 1972 could be transacted in nonconvertible rupees until December 31, 1974. The previous limit had been June 30. September 7. Exports of 40 specified chemicals were banned, while those of 7 other chemicals were placed on a "merit" basis. September 9. The Government announced a scheme whereby priority allotments of Indian automobiles and motor scooters would be made to individuals against certain inward remittances of foreign exchange. The scheme could be utilized by foreign nationals coming to stay in India continuously for at least two years, Indian nationals returning from abroad, and relatives of non- resident Indian nationals who remitted foreign ex- change to them for purchases under this scheme. The Ministry of Heavy Industry accepted applications from September 16. These had to be presented within three months of the date of receipt of the inward remittance. Under the instructions issued by the Reserve Bank, the rupee proceeds of such remittances were to be placed in nonconvertible accounts in the names of the benefi- ciaries; debits for payment in respect of allotted auto- mobiles and motor scooters and for other local payments in India were freely permitted, but all other debits required prior approval by the Reserve Bank. September 26. The ceiling on exports of raw Bengal Deshi cotton for the 1974/75 cotton season was re- duced from 225,000 bales to 150,000 bales. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 1. Exports on credit terms of ready-made garments were banned; only exports under letter of credit or on cash against documents terms were permit- ted. October 1. The automatic validation of import li- censes for small-scale industries on the basis of entitle- ments for the 1973/74 fiscal year was discontinued. This "repeat operation system" had operated since April 1, 1974. October 1. Exports to the United States of all items of mill-made and handloom cotton textiles, made-up articles, and ready-made garments became subject to prior visa. October 1. The cash assistance scheme for the export of certain cotton textile products was replaced by a similar scheme based on export obligations. October 5. Applications for Reserve Bank permission to purchase or sell any immovable property in India by foreign companies and foreign citizens, or Indian com- panies in which nonresident interest is more than 40 per cent, had to be accompanied by a valuation report from an approved appraiser appointed by the Government of India. October 11. The Reserve Bank granted a general per- mission to shipping companies which are not incorpo- rated in India and do not have a branch office or other place of business in India, to carry on in India, through their local agents, their normal commercial activities. October 19. The trade and payments arrangement between India and Bangladesh, which was to have ex- pired on September 27, was formally extended until December 31, 1974. November 5. The import of textile machinery was prohibited. Previously, Indians residing abroad or re- turning from abroad had been permitted to import such machinery up to a c.i.f. value of Rs 2.5 million, but no commercial imports were permitted. November 8. The export of H.P.S. groundnuts was channeled through the Indian Oil and Produce Export- ers Association. November 27. The Reserve Bank granted to compa- nies incorporated in India in which the nonresident share did not exceed 74 per cent, and which satisfied certain other requirements, a general exemption from the provision of the Foreign Exchange Act, 1973, which required foreign or foreign-controlled companies to obtain permission of the Reserve Bank to continue their activities in India. The special requirements for this exemption were (1) that such a company was en- gaged exclusively in producing "core" items or in an industry exporting at least 60 per cent of its output, (2) that such a company was licensed after February 1970, (3) that its production did not exceed its licensed capac- ity, and (4) that it did not undertake expansion or diversification of its activities without the prior permis- sion of the Reserve Bank. November 30. A protocol was signed with Pakistan providing for the resumption of trade, which would be INDIA conducted on a government-to-government basis or through government-controlled corporations. December 7. The ban on trade with Pakistan was lifted. December 14. The Reserve Bank extended to Decem- ber 31, 1975 its permission to authorized dealers to extend loans or overdrafts to nonbank firms and com- panies with a nonresident interest of more than 40 per cent, even if an application was pending for Reserve Bank permission to continue such a firm's activities. (The existing permission was valid until December 31, 1974.) December 17. Agreement was reached to terminate the trade and payments agreement with Bangladesh with effect from January 1, 1975. Outstanding con- tracts for coal, jute, newsprint, tobacco, and fresh fruits, however, were extended up to February 28, 1975, for settlement in Indian rupees. The special clearing arrangement for the financing of travel between India and Bangladesh would be terminated at the same time. December 24. The export duty on carpet backing was reduced from Rs 600-650 a ton to Rs 200 a ton. December 26. The minimum value added prescribed for exports of engineering goods was reduced from 25 per cent to 10 per cent. December 27. The prohibition on the import of diesel generating sets was suspended for a period of six months. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dol- lars. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. There are also special payments arrangements with Afghani- stan, Egypt, and Sudan for settlement of their trade with India in specified commodities on a balanced basis within specific ceilings, and special trade and payments arrange- ments with Bangladesh. The State Trading Corporation of India has an arrangement with the Tunisian agency OCET for balancing purchases of specified commodities. With effect from January 1, 1975, settlements with Bangladesh were placed on a convertible currency basis. 3 The countries listed are Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechten- stein, United Kingdom, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 4 All remittances by nationals of the People's Republic of China to any country outside India and all remittances to the People's Republic of China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to the Peo- ple's Republic of China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Pakistan, Portugal, and Rho- desia. Payments for transactions relating to trade with Paki- stan that is conducted on a government-to-government basis or through government-controlled trade corporations of the two countries are allowed under a special banking arrange- ment. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA 5 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. 6 The importation from Nepal of commodities originating in countries other than Nepal or India also is prohibited. The ban on trade with Portugal was lifted on January 1, 1975. 7 Imports of certain prohibited items are permitted either ad hoc or under the import replenishment scheme. 8 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not neces- sary, however, for the following: deck passengers to or from Burma, Malaysia, Pakistan, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Persian Gulf ports, or East Africa; UN staff members and their fami- lies whose tickets are purchased by or on instruction from UN agencies; staff of airline and steamer companies traveling on official duty, and families of such staff posted on duty abroad on a long-term basis; foreign diplomatic personnel stationed in India; families of persons gainfully employed abroad proceeding to join the head of the family or persons gainfully employed abroad returning to their country of em- p loyment a f t er a v is it to Ind i a, provided the fares are paid abroad; employees of Ind ian insurance companies and banks posted on d u ty w i th the ir branches abroad and the ir families; persons employed by foreign governmen ts provided the fares are paid abroad; t ravel between Ind ia and Pakistan by per- sons ho ld ing restricted travel documents issued by the H igh Commission for Pakistan in Ind ia or India-Pakistan pass- ports; air travel between M a d r a s /T i r u c h i r a p a l l i /T r i v a n d r um and Colombo, Sri Lanka; and travel between Ind ia and Nepal and between Ind ia and Bangladesh. 9 The ban on t r ade w i th Po r tugal was l i f ted on J anu a ry 1, 1975. 10 Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, most Western European currenc ies ( inc lud ing sterling), D j ibou ti f rancs, East African sh i l l ing s, Hong Kong dollars, I raqi d ina rs, Malaysian dol- lars, Moroccan dirhams, Panamanian balboas, Philippine pe- sos, Tunisian d ina rs, and Vietnamese piastres. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established with the Fund. In the Jakarta foreign ex- change Bourse, transactions in U.S. dollars have since August 23, 1971 been effected at rates within 1 per cent cither side of Rp 415 per US$1; on December 31, 1974 the buying and selling rates were Rp 414 and Rp 416, respectively, per US$1. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are determined on the basis of the Jakarta rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, and rates for the currencies concerned in international markets. In the Jakarta foreign exchange Bourse three calls for exchange are conducted each week under the manage- ment of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange in the call is restricted to the authorized foreign exchange banks and licensed foreign exchange dealers. Bank In- donesia is committed to deal with any willing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the foreign exchange banks notify Bank Indonesia of their supply to the market and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indo- nesia clears the market at the intervention rate. The Bank also offers authorized banks certain facilities for forward contracts in respect of aid exchange and for swap transactions in U.S. dollars. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange and trade control system,1 but the Indonesian rupiah is legal tender there. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Ministry of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authorities. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks and are normally effected in convert- ible currencies. Export proceeds must be received in Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japan- ese yen, Malaysian dollars, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escu- dos, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Indonesia has no operative payments agreements.2 Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign currencies with authorized foreign exchange banks. No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an initial deposit is required for registration. Since Octo- ber 31, 1968, only Indonesian nationals may obtain an importer's license, but certain established foreign firms have been enabled to retain their licenses and new for- eign investors can obtain an importer's license re- stricted to the import of materials required for their own projects. Imports from Angola, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, as are imports from all sources of any secondhand goods and of specified commodities. The latter include built-up sedans and station wagon se- dans; components for the assembly of luxury-type au- tomobiles; built-up commercial vehicles and motorcycles; radio and television sets in built-up or semi-knocked-down condition; sarongs; galvanized iron sheets; iron roofing sheets; mosquito sticks; matches; monosodium glutamate; mattresses; certain types of cotton yarn; and specified types of textiles, car tires, batteries, printed matter, office supplies, animal traps, bottles, and lamps and bulbs. The importing of cloves, fertilizers, rice, refined sugar, and wheat and wheat flour is restricted to specified approved import- ers. Imports of certain commodities for the "national iron stock" are reserved for state enterprises; they in- clude newsprint and certain types of paper, tires, cotton weaving yarn, and pharmaceutical raw materials. No licenses are required for imports. All permitted imports may be paid for either with general exchange (Devisa Umuni) or aid exchange {Devisa Kredid- For imports financed with aid exchange a compensation payment is granted after customs clearance; this payment ranges from Rp 20 to Rp 45 per U.S. dollar of the import value, depending on country of origin and /or donor country. Except for textiles, importers may without bank gua- rantee contract short-term credit under "merchant let- ters of credit,"3 but otherwise sight bankers' letters of credit are required for all private sector imports with the exception of parcel imports, goods brought in by travelers of a value not exceeding US$100, and imports specifically authorized by the Ministry of Trade (such as goods constituting part of a foreign investment). A rupiah deposit of 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit must be lodged with Bank Indonesia when a letter of credit is opened in respect of imports financed with aid exchange; for imports financed with general exchange, importers are required to make an advance deposit of at least 40 per cent of the letter of credit value when they submit applications for letters 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA of credit to authorized banks, and to settle the balance within 75 days of the opening of the letter of credit. Applications to foreign exchange banks for imports under merchant letters of credit must be accompanied by a deposit of 25 per cent of the value. The deposits are released to the importer only after the issuance of the KPP (customs clearance document) or when he presents correspondence from suppliers indicating that the merchant letter of credit has been canceled. The amount of the deposit against letters of credit for non- government imports financed with aid exchange is left to the discretion of the authorized bank if the latter purchases aid exchange forward from Bank Indonesia. Import duties, which are almost without exception ad valorem, are imposed on the c.i.f. value of the com- modities converted at the customs valuation rate (Rp 415 per US$1 on December 31, 1974). Sales taxes of 5, 10, and 20 per cent are levied on most impor ts on their c. & f. value plus import duty. Items which are exempted from import duties are also exempted from sales taxes. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted or subject to control. Pro- ceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered. Travel- ers may take out and bring in any amount in foreign banknotes but only Rp 2,500 in Indonesian notes and coins other than gold and silver commemorative coins; Indonesian commemorative gold and silver coins is- sued in August 1970 may be taken out freely up to Rp 65,000 a person, while the limit applicable to gold and silver coins issued in October 1974 is Rp 130,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, the People's Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited, as are exports to all countries of gold ore and pure gold; copra; coconut oil; clove seeds; pepper seeds; fer- tilizers; rawhides of cattle; certain categories of unpro- cessed or low-quality rubber; certain logs and timber; all types of waste paper (from Java and Madura); scrap of bronze and copper (except f rom Irian Jaya); iron scrap; and scrap of steel (from Java, Madura, and Su- matra). The prior authorization of the Minister of Trade is required for the export of f la tba rk crepe, cin- chona bark, silver, and antiques of cultural value. Oth- erwise, all commodities may be freely exported by registered private f irms and state trad ing firms. All exporters except the petroleum companies, cer- tain m in ing companies, and licensed "border-crossing" traders must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the value of the goods to be exported. For certain m inor exports, inc lud ing hand ic ra f ts, the exporter must surrender the full foreign exchange value prior to shipment if there is no buyer's letter of credit .4 For the principal export commodities other than pe- troleum, the sales price must not be lower than "indica- tion" prices ("check" prices) determined periodically by 238 the Minister of Trade. The full proceeds from exports other than petroleum, products of certain mining com- panies, and goods exported by licensed "border- crossing" traders are subject to surrender (except in "border-crossing" trade, see below) and, except for fin- ished goods, batik textiles and other handicrafts, ply- wood, fresh fish, and a number of other items, are subject to a 10 per cent export tax. Exports of petro- leum and of products of certain mining companies are also exempt from export tax. A specific cess is levied on exports of certain agricultural products and on inter-island trading in the same products. Certain commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and the Philippines in exchange for certain eligible goods. In this "border- crossing" trade with Malaysia, the value of import or export shipments must not exceed M$600 a mon th, if transported overland, and M$600 a shipment, if trans- ported by sea. Capital Foreign capital invested in Indonesia is governed primarily by the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 10, 1967, as amended in August 1970, and by Presidential Guidelines issued on January 22, 1974 and September 11, 1974. In principle, such investments may be undertaken only through a jo int venture with an Indonesian partner. All investments in Indonesia re- quire the approval of the Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM). Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operating permit for foreign inves tment is usually valid for a maximum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemption from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years. Investors are granted the right to transfer prof i ts (after settlement of taxes and f inanc ial obligations in Indonesia) and to make trans- fers relating to expenses connected with the employ- ment of foreign na t iona ls in Indonesia, and in respect of depreciation allowances after the expiration of the tax holiday from corporation tax. The law provides that no transfer permit shall be issued for capital repa- triation as long as the investments benefit from tax relief; at present, however, foreign payments do not require a transfer permit. The exploration and develop- ment of petroleum resources are governed by the Petro- leum Law of 1960. A special regime applies to enterprises previously nationalized but now restored to the original owners. Such enterprises are allowed tax holidays for a period of three years on new capital in foreign currency brought in within the context of rehabilitation and ex- pansion programs that have been approved by the Gov- ernmen t. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of the assets of those restored enterprises which ceased opera- tions could take place w i th effect from January 1, 1972 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution at the rate of one f if th of the proceeds each year, with a full guarantee as to their value in foreign currency. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of assets of enter- prises whose period of operation has expired or whose operations have been terminated by the Government is allowed at the rate of one f i f th a year effective from the time of the sale of assets. This transfer is guaranteed as to its value in foreign currency. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) ex- ists for the benefit of foreign creditors holding non- guaranteed claims against Indonesia. Rupiahs covered by the Scheme are administered in two kinds of DICS-Rupiah Accounts, A and B, the former relating only to claims of which the creditor is the first holder. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments under the Foreign Investment Law of 1967 are paid in rupiahs in settlement of their claims. These claims are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original creditor's DIGS rupiahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Investment Law of 1967, for the purchase of foreign exchange for the import of equipment and raw materials necessary for the establishment and oper- ation of those projects. There are no limitations on the remittance to Indone- sia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or in commodities. Both residents and nonresidents may hold foreign currency deposits with foreign exchange banks. However, foreign exchange banks, nonbank fi- nancial institutions, and private companies are subject to Bank Indonesia directives with respect to borrowing abroad, the acceptance of deposits from nonresidents, and the issuance of certificates of deposit to nonresi- dents. Furthermore, a uniform reserve requirement of 30 per cent is applicable to the foreign currency liabili- ties of the foreign exchange banks. Certain other bor- rowing abroad is subject to clearance by and reporting to Bank Indonesia. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required before any public enterprise or public sector body may accept a loan from abroad. Indonesian citizens and residents of foreign national- ity may freely transfer, negotiate, import, and export securities denominated in rupiahs or in foreign cur- rency. Gold Indonesia has issued six commemorative gold coins, which are legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold ore and pure gold, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, are prohibited by virtue of Decision No. 6 8 /K P / IV / 70 of April 17, 1970 of the Minister of Trade. Travelers may freely take out Indo- nesian commemorative gold and silver coins issued in August 1970 up to Rp 65,000 a person, and gold and silver coins issued as part of the "conservation coinage" in October 1974 up to Rp 130,000 a person; amounts INDONESIA in excess require the prior approval of Bank Indonesia. Imports of gold are free of license but require prior notification to the Ministry of Industry and are subject to an extra levy of Rp 25 per US$1. Changes during 1974 January 1. A circular issued by Bank Indonesia on December 31, 1973 came into effect, which regulated the activities of nonbank financial institutions in the field of foreign exchange. January 21. Exports of iron and steel scrap were prohibited. January 22. With minor exceptions, the import of built-up sedans and station wagons and of components for the assembly of luxury automobiles was prohibited. January 22. The President announced certain new principles that would govern new foreign investment in Indonesia. Except in off-shore oil exploration and cer- tain off-shore manufacturing industries (those estab- lished in restricted areas, such as bonded warehouses and private entrepots), new investments could only be made through a joint venture with Indonesian partners. The number of economic activities closed to foreign investors would be increased. A target date would be set by which the Indonesian share in new and existing foreign investments should attain at least 51 per cent. April 1. Foreign banks and insurance companies hav- ing representative offices in Jakarta were allowed to undertake specified operations outside the capital, sub- ject to certain conditions. April 9. Bank Indonesia set individual ceilings on each foreign exchange bank's permissible receipts of foreign funds. April 9. Bank Indonesia set individual ceilings on each nonbank financial institution's acceptance of for- eign loans. April 9. Bank Indonesia directed nonbank financial institutions and private companies to deposit with it, at no interest and in the form of foreign exchange, at least 30 per cent of all cash loans received from abroad. There were exemptions for funds received within the framework of the Inter-Governmental Group on Indo- nesia (IGGI); loans with a maturity in excess of 15 years; funds to be used to finance imports of goods or services; and borrowing related to projects approved under the Foreign Investment Act (No. 1 of 1967) and the Domestic Investment Act (No. 6 of 1968). The 10 per cent deposit requirement against the foreign cur- rency liabilities of foreign exchange banks was in- creased to 30 per cent. A 30 per cent reserve requirement was introduced against banks' rupiah lia- bilities to nonresidents and to residents (for funds origi- nating abroad). June 1. Imports of certain types of cotton weaving yarn were reserved for state enterprises. June 12. A decision of the Minister of Finance im- posed an export tax of 10 per cent on the f.o.b. value on all goods except those classified as finished prod- 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA ucts. This tax replaced the 10 per cent exchange tax on export proceeds, which had involved a multiple cur- rency practice. July 15. Imports of built-up air conditioners, refrig- erators, and electric sewing machines were prohibited. August 8. An agreement on border trade was signed with the Philippines. August 14. The import of unregistered pharmaceuti- cals, foods tuffs, beverages, and cosmetics was prohib- ited. August 24. A basic agreement on economic and tech- nical cooperation was signed with Singapore. With the coming in to force of this agreement, border trade with Singapore was considered terminated. August 26. Rupiah liabilities originating abroad were reclassified as "rupiah liabilities" and thus became sub- ject to the rupiah reserve and deposit requirements. Previously, such liabilities had been treated as foreign exchange liabilities. September 21. The President issued guidelines on the transfer to Indonesians of shares in foreign-owned or foreign-controlled companies. September 30. The prohibition on exports of corn and corn products was lifted. October 1. As part of the "conservation coinage" of the World Wildlife Fund, a gold coin with a face value of Rp 100,000 and two silver coins w i th face values of Rp 5,000 and Rp 2,000 were issued. They were legal tender. October 11. The Chairman of the BKPM issued a circular outlining how and when the Indonesian share in joint ventures should be increased to 51 per cent. November 11. Imports of textiles could no longer be settled under a merchant's letter of credit; a documen- tary letter of credit opened by an authorized foreign exchange bank was required. November 11. Domestic banks were no longer per- mitted to finance imports of textiles. November 11. Imports of cotton yarn and raw cotton were reserved for designated state enterprises. December 28. The 30 per cent deposit requirement against foreign borrowing by private enterprises and nonbank financial institutions was abolished. The 30 per cent reserve requirement against the foreign cur- rency liabilities of foreign exchange banks and the 30 per cent deposit requirement against the foreign bor- rowings of foreign exchange banks remained in force. December 31. The prohibition on the export of copra and coconut oil was extended for another year. NOTES 1 W i th the exception that the prohibition on imports of certain automobiles is applicable also in Sabang. 2 Indonesia ma in ta ins an inoperative bilateral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China. 3 A merchant letter of credit is a payments form providing for short-term suppliers' credit. It is not a bankers' letter of credit and carries no commitments on the part of the bank th rough which it is opened. 4 There are separate arrangements for exports of orchids. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0108055 gram of fine gold per Iranian Rial, corresponding to Rls 68.1747 = US$1, and Iran avails itself of wider margins. The official rates of Bank Markazi Iran (the Central Bank) for the U.S. dollar, the only currency that is officially quoted, are Rls 67.50 buying, and Rls 67.75 selling, per US$1. The Central Bank also publishes daily exchange rates for 14 other currencies1 for purposes of the calculation of import registration fees and import duties; these rates are based on the official rates for the U.S. dollar and the London market rates for the currencies con- cerned. There is a dual exchange market, consisting of a commercial market (or official rate market), with fixed U.S. dollar rates, and a noncommercial market, with fluctuating rates. Both markets operate within the banking system. As of December 31, 1974, the free market rates for the U.S. dollar were Rls 67.50 buying, and Rls 67.75 selling. The Central Bank stands ready to purchase from the commercial banks, at official rates, any foreign exchange proceeds from exports of goods and services. Import payments must in principle be settled in the official rate market. Also settled at official rates are basic allocations for certain authorized current payments (travel, study, and medical treatment abroad) and, on the supply side, any export proceeds and other current receipts converted by public sector agencies (including the National Iranian Oil Com- pany). Proceeds from exports other than oil, oil prod- ucts, and natural gas, as well as the proceeds from exports of services, may be sold either in the official or the noncommercial market. All other payments and receipts are settled at the noncommercial market rate. However, transactions over clearing accounts denomi- nated in U.S. dollars are in all cases settled at the official buying and selling rates. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank. In principle, all foreign exchange transactions must take place through the Central Bank or autho- rized banks. The import and export of goods is gov- erned by regulations issued annually by the Ministry of Commerce and approved by the Council of Ministers. Foreign trade relations with Albania and the Republic of China are under the control of the Foreign Transac- tions Company within the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Transactions with six of the nine countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, while those with the People's Republic of China, the German Democratic Republic, and North Korea must be conducted through accounts de- nominated in Iranian rials. Payments to and from Paki- stan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, petroleum and petroleum products, and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dol- lars. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Settlements with other countries normally are settled in the quoted currencies.1 Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain ac- counts freely, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with authorized banks; rial accounts may be used both for payments in Iran and for conversion into foreign currencies through the noncommercial market. Foreign nationals as well as Iranian physical or juridical per- sons may maintain sight or time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; these accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annu- ally, and a new Import List, effective for the next Ira- nian year, is published by the Ministry of Commerce. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of goods whose importation is con- sidered essential and including items which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic requirements, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies (generally the Ministry of Commerce) before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports are goods whose im- portation is not considered essential, including goods whose local production is sufficient to meet domestic demand. Commodities may be shifted from the "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, and vice versa, as and when deemed necessary. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports without payment through the official ex- change market of "authorized" goods require prior ap- proval by the Ministry of Commerce and the Central Bank. However, imports of "authorized" goods without payment are permitted without any limitation, pro- vided that registration is made before the order is placed. Such imports up to US$5,000 are permitted without prior registration but are subject to the regis- 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN tration deposit; payments may be made either through the commercial or the noncommercial exchange mar- ket. In addition, permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable institutions or government organizations; machinery; spare parts, and raw or intermediate materials for productive entities, up to US$1,000 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$300 a shipment. Imports on this basis are exempt from the import registration deposit. The import of gifts, whether "authorized" or * 'unauthorized" commodities, is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. Specified commodities, such as sugar, wheat, to- bacco, and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Payments may be made either against bills for collec- tion or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without prior authori- zation for goods (mainly capital goods and raw materi- als) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 (Iranian date 12 /5 /1344). Payments for imports of other goods may also be made against bills for collection without prior permission from the Central Bank, provided that bills are settled within nine months. All orders for imports must be registered with the Central Bank through an authorized bank; registra- tion is effected against a pro forma invoice. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and special regulations apply to certain commodities when origi- nating in Hong Kong. At the time of registration of imports, an import registration fee of 1 per cent of the amount of an import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate of Rls 67.75 per US$1, is collected by authorized banks. Imports brought in under the Law for the At- traction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran are exempted from the fee. For some goods, importers must at the time of registration deposit with the Central Bank, through an authorized bank, a deposit of 15 per cent of the invoiced value. Most food items are exempt from the registration deposit. The deposit is refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate after the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. The Central Bank may permit, when necessary, the shifting of imports from the category in which an advance im- port deposit is required to the exempt category. Authorized banks make payments for permitted im- ports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are subject to commercial profit taxes, which are either specific or ad valorem and are in addition to any applicable customs duty. The ad valorem commercial profit tax ranges from 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial profit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. 242 These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents endorsed by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or will be made, and, when required, that the special import authorization has been received from government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all current invisibles may be made freely through the noncommercial market. In addition, there are certain allocations at the official rate for travel, study, and medical treatment abroad. Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for the f.o.b. value of those imports. Official exchange is granted to importers for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, in- surance must be taken out in Iran. Official exchange is not granted to exporters for insurance of Iranian ex- ports sold f.o.b. Official exchange also is not granted for the payment of other insurance premiums, although reinsurance premium payments are permitted. Autho- rized banks are permitted to remit interest on import- ers' suppliers' credit not exceeding 8.5 per cent; higher interest rates require special permission from the Cen- tral Bank. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assis- tants whose employment has been recognized as neces- sary by the Government may remit at the official rate about 50 per cent of their net salaries; any additional amounts may be remitted through the noncommercial market. The basic travel allowance for Iranian and for- eign nationals, the equivalent of Rls 50,000 a person a trip, may be made available by authorized banks at the official rate upon presentation of a valid passport and exit permit; each accompanying member of the pass- port holder's family is entitled to the same allowance, and there is no limit on the number of times a person may avail himself of this facility. Additional funds in respect of personal or business travel may be purchased freely in the noncommercial market. Banks may sell, at the official rate, up to the equivalent of Rls 200,000 a person to Iranian nationals traveling or residing abroad, for medical treatment; additional foreign ex- change at the official rate can be obtained against medi- cal bills certified by an Iranian consulate abroad, and any fur ther amounts may be purchased in the noncom- mercial market. Iranian physical and juridical persons may also freely make remittances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received from sources abroad, including export proceeds; bal- ances in such accounts are freely transferable. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-journey exit permit, also for pilgrimage travel. Lower rates ap- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ply to family members traveling on the same passport (wife and children from 7 to 18 years of age), viz., Rls 750 a person. Iranians resident abroad and stu- dents studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from payment of the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 20,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of foreign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$100 into other currencies at the offi- cial rate, upon presentation of their visaed passport, and may freely convert any additional amount in the noncommercial market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. The commercial profit tax and customs duty charged at the time of import of raw materials contained in manufactured goods for ex- port may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Certain minor exports are granted incentive payments by the Center for the Promotion of Exports. The Central Bank offers preferential discount facilities for export bills. The foreign currency proceeds of commodities other than oil, oil products, and natural gas may be retained abroad; if they are repatriated, they may be kept as foreign currency deposits with domestic banks or sold to the banking system either in the official exchange market or in the noncommercial market. Authorized banks normally accept export proceeds only in U.S. dollars and other quoted currencies,1 but they are per- mitted to accept other currencies at their discretion. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder. Travelers may freely bring in Rls 20,000 in Iranian banknotes; higher amounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The repatriation of Iranian bank- notes through the mail is not permitted. Capital Iranian nationals may retain in domestic foreign cur- rency accounts any capital receipts accruing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely, as may domestic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Private outward capital transfers may be made through the noncommercial market, irrespective of their purpose. The retransfer abroad at the official selling rate is permitted, provided that the inflow had been specifically authorized by the Central Bank. Au- thorized banks may freely accept inflows of foreign IRAN exchange from abroad (both deposits and borrowings) and lend the foreign currency to residents or sell it in the noncommercial market for rials; the rial counter- part may be lent to residents, but such lending is sub- ject to the applicable credit ceilings. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and regulations implementing the law, foreign capital in- vested in approved development or productive activi- ties in industry, mining, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together with net profits (in accordance with Article 1 of the law and the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of foreign exchange and /or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the official market selling rate prevailing at the date of transfer. However, the Central Bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate remains applicable to the funds when they are repatri- ated. Capital imported under this law in the form of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the Central Bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buying rate prevailing on the date of application for conversion. All conversions must take place in the official market (capital, profits and dividends, amorti- zation, and liquidation proceeds). The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the pro- posed investment. Gold No Iranian gold coins are legal tender.4 Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold and silver in any form in Iran, and there is a free market for both. Authorized banks may freely import and export gold and silver (bullion only, which for gold must be at least "Yiooo fine), against settlement through the official rate market, and sell these metals to any person in Iran. The import and export of gold for monetary purposes or for international settlements is reserved for the Central Bank, while the import for industrial and dental use is effected by professional organizations, at the official rate and subject to supervi- sion by the Central Bank. The Central Bank accepts gold bullion on deposit from domestic banks as well as nonbank residents and issues gold certificates against such deposits. Travelers may freely import and export gold bullion and coins up to 1 kilogram a person a trip; the Central Bank is empowered to approve larger quan- tities. The export of Iranian gold coins for numismatic purposes requires prior approval by the Central Bank. Imports of gold are free from customs duty and com- mercial profit tax but are subject to the 1 per cent import registration fee. Bank Melli Iran and other com- mercial banks give daily quotations for domestic sales. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Changes during 1974 January 10-14. A dual exchange market was intro- duced with the creation of a noncommercial market, and exchange restrictions were abolished in principle. The Central Bank took the following measures, which it instructed banks in Iran to execute immediately: (1) Exporters of goods other than petroleum, petro- leum products, and natural gas were exempted from exporters' undertakings and hence from the obligation of repatriating and surrendering export proceeds; they were given an option, if they did repatriate the pro- ceeds, either to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized banks at the official rate or to sell these proceeds in the noncommercial market; in addition, they could retain repatriated export proceeds in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks.5 (2) Banks were allowed to purchase foreign exchange earnings resulting from exports and services at current noncommercial market exchange rates, rather than the official rates quoted by the Central Bank, and to sell this foreign exchange at noncommercial market rates in any manner and for any purpose permitted by existing or fu ture directives of the Central Bank. (3) Banks could also purchase, either at their own discretion or on the basis of existing or fu ture regula- tions of the Central Bank, the foreign exchange pro- ceeds from inward capital transfers or from foreign currency loans taken up in Iran, and sell this exchange at free market rates in any manner and for any permit- ted purpose. (4) The Central Bank stood ready to purchase from banks at the official rate any excess supply of foreign exchange resulting from proceeds of exports and ser- vices (excluding capital inflows). (5) Individuals and institutions intending to sell to the Central Bank the foreign exchange proceeds from inward capital transfers and to repurchase these at the official rate for transfer abroad, were required to obtain the approval of the Central Bank and abide by other regulations prior to the transfer to Iran. (6) Provided they observed the relevant Central Bank regulations, banks could accept foreign currency de- posits from any physical or juridical person and make use of such deposits in any way they considered advis- able. (7) Foreign exchange purchased or accepted on de- posit in accordance with the rules under (2), (3), and (6) above would be referred to as "noncommercial foreign exchange," and banks were required to record in sepa- rate accounts all transactions in such foreign exchange. (8) In principle, the amount of "noncommercial for- eign exchange" sold by any individual bank could not at any time exceed the amount it had purchased. (9) In order to maintain an orderly exchange market, banks were required to compile, in a manner to be prescribed by the Central Bank, all data relating to the purchase and sale of foreign exchange, and to submit specified data to the Central Bank at the close of busi- 244 ness on the last day of each week and also at the end of each month. (10) The Central Bank's sales of foreign exchange to banks at the official rate for imports and for authorized noncommercial purposes would continue to take place on the same basis as previously; thus, the allocations at the official rate for travel or study abroad remained unchanged. January 17. The ban on imports of trucks and com- bined radio/tape recorders was lifted. March 21. The export-import regulations for the Ira- nian year 1353 were issued. The import registration fee for all goods would be reduced from 5.5 per cent to 1 per cent. (After approval by Parliament on April 21, this measure took effect retroactive to March 21.) Commercial profit taxes were either eliminated or re- duced on a wide range of goods, including biscuits, tea, wool, chemical products, and agricultural machinery. In addition, import duties on many items were reduced. March 21. Import subsidies were introduced on wheat, meat, sugar, and soybeans. June 9. Certain import items, such as iron, sheet steel, and certain yarn and textiles, ceased to require the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce. July 20. The import deposit was generally reduced from 100 per cent or 40 per cent to 15 per cent, while it was eliminated for certain other goods (including butter, certain types of cheese, eggs, rice, wheat, barley, corn, black tea, and cement). July 22. Eight items on the "unauthorized" list were shifted to the "authorized" list; of these items, the Min- istry of Commerce authorized the import without prior approval of refrigerators and radio and television re- ceivers. July 27. Import payments henceforth could be made either against bills for collection or under documentary credits, provided that bills for collection in respect of nonessential goods were settled within nine months. Previously, only payments for specified essential goods could be made on a collection basis, letters of credit being prescribed in all other cases. September 17. The Government lifted the restrictions on authorized banks' imports and exports of gold and silver bullion and introduced a free market for gold and silver in Iran. All commercial and specialized banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange were permitted to import these metals and to sell them to any person in Iran; gold imports had to be in the form of bullion at least 995/iooo fine. However, banks were not permit- ted to sell these metals forward, and gold and silver held by banks could at no time exceed in value 10 per cent of the total of their paid-up capital and nonstatu- tory reserves. Applications from goldsmiths and silver- smiths and other professional groups to import gold and silver for industrial use would be screened by the Central Bank. Previously, imports of nonmonetary gold had been made only by the Bank Melli Iran, and exports had been prohibited, while the import and ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution port of monetary gold had been reserved for the Central Bank. Private citizens were permitted to hold gold and sil- ver in any form (previously only jewelry and orna- ments) and to import or export up to 1 kilogram of gold (bullion or coins) a person a trip. Central Bank permis- sion was required to bring in or take out more than 1 kilogram. Banks were permitted to lend up to 50 per cent against gold or silver collateral put up by private individuals. The Central Bank was authorized to issue negotiable gold certificates against gold bullion deposited with it. Banks dealing in gold or silver were required to post daily buying and selling prices. The Central Bank re- served the right to intervene in the gold or silver market whenever necessary. October 6. The Central Bank authorized export con- tracts to be denominated in Iranian rials for those com- modities not subject to repatriation and surrender requirements in respect of the exchange proceeds. December 1. Borrowing abroad by banks became subject to a deposit requirement of 15 per cent. The IRAN deposits were to be lodged with the Central Bank. NOTES 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Po- land, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 3 Exports and imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral export/import list for countries with which Iran has bilateral trade and payments agreements require special ap- proval by the Ministry of Commerce. 4 Article 2(d) of the Monetary and Banking Act prohibits the use of gold coins as legal tender. 5 Since September 16, 1967 Iranian physical and juridical persons had been exempted from surrender requirements in respect of exchange receipts other than export proceeds; re- ceipts from invisibles and capital transfers could be retained in current accounts with domestic banks. Transfers between such accounts in Iran, as well as transfers abroad to the debit of these accounts, could be made freely without Central Bank approval. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of f ine gold per Iraqi Dinar, corresponding to ID 1 = US$3.3778, and Iraq avails itself of wider margins. Transactions in the off i- cial market are carried out in any of the listed curren- cies l or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its transactions with autho- rized dealers. The Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, which is the intervention currency, were US$3.394678 and US$3.377778, respectively, on De- cember 31, 1974. Administration of Control The Board of Administration of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange control; it has delegated this au thor i ty to the Foreign Exchange Committee (headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, his Deputy, or a member specified in advance by the Board of Admin- istration), to the Department of Foreign Exchange of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take place through a li- censed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Administration. Import and export policy are deter- mined by the Council for the Regulation of Trade. The Directorate-General of Economics (Government and Private Import Section) in the Ministry of Economy, the General Organization for Trade, the General De- partment for Industrial Promotion in the Ministry of Indus try, and the Industrial Organization in the Minis- try of Industry are the principal licensing authorities for imports and exports, but import licenses are also issued by certain other public organizations and gov- ernment departments. A foreign exchange budget, in- cluding an import program, is established annually, and foreign exchange allocations under the import pro- gram are supervised by the Import Program Commit- tee. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed curren- cies 1 or, under the bilateral payments agreements with the People's Republic of China, Egypt, and Yugoslavia, in dinars or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account.2 Payments to and receipts from Is- rael, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transac- tions permitted in convertible currencies may alterna- tively be settled in Iraqi dinars through nonresident 246 accounts. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordi- nary nonresident accounts, which arise from transac- tions in respect of current payments, and special nonresident accounts, which arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Furthermore, Iraqi nation- als who have been working abroad for at least a year or who become residents after having been nonresi- dents may open accounts in foreign currencies with banks in Iraq and credit these with up to 50 per cent of their foreign savings. Balances in such accounts may be used for a variety of purposes, including imports for the holder's personal use, imports of certain capital goods, or meeting expenditures abroad for travel, medi- cal treatment, and s tudy purposes; payments f rom these accounts up to the equivalent of ID 500 a year do not require Central Bank approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of many commodities, including jute, sugar, tea, edible oil, certain medical supplies, machine tools, and automobiles, are a government monopoly. All pri- vate imports except those of the private sector oil com- panies require licenses; in principle these are issued in accordance with an annual import program, but this program has been made increasingly flexible, also for consumer goods. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and all imports from Hong Kong other than certain essential goods are prohibited. Im- ports of some commodities on a Protection List are in principle prohibited from all sources. A tax is levied on the amount of the import license at the fo l low ing rates: V2 per mill for producer goods, 1 per mill for consumer goods, and, in addition, up to 15 per cent on any supplementary import licenses above a private importer's annual quota. To finance the Export Subsidy Fund, a tax of V2 per cent is levied on imports of capital goods and a tax of 1 per cent on impor ts of consumer goods. All imports subject to im- port du ty are also subject to a customs surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs du ty. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon pre- sentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles With the exception of certain payments from foreign currency accounts (see section on Nonresident Ac- counts, above), all payments for invisibles require per- mission. Exchange is usually granted for educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution permitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceed- ing this limit. There is a basic exchange allowance for tourist and business travel of ID 150 a calendar year for each per- son 18 years of age or over and of ID 100 for persons under 18 years of age, for trips of at least one week to Arab countries, socialist countries, Iran, and Turkey (ID 100 a person, irrespective of age, for trips of less than a week, or for five or more members of a family traveling together, irrespective of the length of their stay abroad). For travel to other countries, the basic allowance is ID 200 for each person 18 years of age or over and ID 100 for each person under 18, regardless of the length of the trip. In addition, there are special allocations of up to ID 1,000 a person for medical treatment abroad, and of ID 200 for persons accompa- nying a patient. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes, in addition to 50 per cent of the domestic currency equivalent of the foreign exchange allocated, which is considered part of the basic travel allowance, and the balance of that allowance in travelers checks. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arabian riyals (ID 75 for persons over 5 and under 18 and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger). Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an autho- rized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's return to Iraq, subject to the fulfill- ment of certain formalities. Exempt from the deposit requirement are officials of government, semigovern- ment, and public utility departments; students travel- ing for study purposes; pensioners; foreigners, except non-Iraqi wives of Iraqi nationals; and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. On leaving the country, Iraqi nationals must pay an exit tax of ID 20, except when traveling to Gulf countries or on an official mission the entire expense of which is borne by the Government. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Economy has authority to prohibit the export of any commodity when supply falls short of domestic demand. The Council for the Regulation of Trade may also prohibit the export of certain commodities. The export of cer- tain items is reserved for the Marketing and Services Corporation. All other exports are licensed freely. Exporters must generally undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds from exports of IRAQ dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Gulf area (excluding Iran), India, and Pakistan are exempt from these requirements when the amount does not exceed ID 600 in value or 25 tons in weight. Some commodities may be exported on a compensation (bar- ter) basis. This system links the export of certain "new" exports to the import of prohibited items. Exports of certain goods are subsidized through an Export Sub- sidy Fund. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes (other than Israel currency), in unlimited amounts, provided that the funds are declared on an exchange control form; amounts not intended to be taken out of the country are exempt from declaration. Travelers may bring in ID 25 in Iraqi notes. Nonresidents who are engaged in border trade, however, may bring in ID 600 in Iraqi currency. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa, but they must de- posit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies starting opera- tions in Iraq must use Iraqi capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. The transfer of profits net of income tax from foreign investments is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trading companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from the mandatory rein- vestment of profits in excess of the transferable percent- age. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limitations and entitled to preferential treat- ment in several other respects; interest payments are not subject to any ceilings. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, re- quire exchange control approval; such transfers are se- verely restricted. Special facilities allow Arab investors to bring in convertible currency freely through a li- censed dealer for specified investment purposes; such capital and any net profits may be transferred abroad in convertible currency. Similar facilities permit Iraqi nationals to bring in convertible currency through a licensed dealer and deposit the funds in foreign cur- rency accounts, balances in which are freely transfer- able abroad. Under the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 22 of 1973), certain incentives and guarantees may be granted to approved investments of domestic or foreign capital in Iraq. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign- owned firms except banks 3 must have a majority of 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ equity capital held by Iraqi nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq in any form other than gold bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Since mid-1961, the Rafidain Bank has held a monopoly over the import and domestic distri- bution of gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under a quota sys- tem based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1974 February 12. The amount in listed currencies that authorized dealers were allowed to keep on deposit with their foreign correspondents was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent of their foreign liabilities. February 21. The limitations imposed under the 1972 austerity program on the transfer abroad of airline companies' net receipts were removed. March 4. The Japanese yen was included among the listed currencies. March 19. The embargo on petroleum exports to the United States was lifted. April 1. The import program for 1974/75 came into effect. It made provision for imports valued at ID 1.26 billion, nearly ID 1 billion in excess of the initial alloca- tions of the previous year's program. A number of import items were added to the Protection List; these included butter, biscuits, chocolate, alcoholic bever- ages, cement, soap, detergents, fabrics of man-made fibers, clothing, and air conditioners. Items taken off the Protection List included sulphuric acid, paints, cos- metic products, cotton yarn, leather footwear, ceiling fans, and television sets. July 10. The embargo on petroleum exports to Den- mark and the Netherlands was lifted. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dol- lars. 2 In January 1975, agreement was reached with Yugoslavia to terminate the payments agreement in February. 3 All commercial banks and insurance companies were na- tionalized on July 14, 1964. 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound. Since June 23, 1972, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the Irish pound within prescribed margins, except for sterling. The Central Bank of Ireland quotes the pound sterling at par with the Irish pound, and transactions in sterling are free of commission. The Bank also quotes buying and selling rates for other currencies, which are approx- imately equal to the rates quoted against sterling in London. As of December 31, 1974, the Central Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$2.3500 and US$2.3495 per Irish pound. Certain capital transactions involving investment currency (see section on Capital, below) take place at different effec- tive rates; on December 31, 1974 the investment cur- rency premium was 69 Y8 per cent (based on the spot exchange rate of US$2.3495 per Irish pound). Forward transactions between authorized banks and their cus- tomers must have an underlying commercial transac- tion. On February 15, 1961, Ireland formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries if the goods are agricul- tural in character. Import licensing is not used for ex- change control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Irish exchange control regulations distinguish be- tween (1) the Scheduled Territories, consisting of Ire- land, Northern Ireland, Great Britain, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, and Gibraltar, and (2) the rest of the world. The latter is subdivided into (1) the Over- seas Sterling Area (OSA), i.e., the countries which on June 23, 1972 ceased to be regarded as Scheduled Terri- tories;1 (2) EEC member countries other than the United Kingdom and Ireland; (3) Rhodesia; and (4) the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories (RNST), which consist of all other countries. Payments to and from other Scheduled Territories may be made freely in Irish pounds or pounds sterling; certain insurance payments between Scheduled Territories, however, may be made foreign currencies.2 Authorized payments in to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any foreign cur- rency other than Rhodesian currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any for- eign currency other than Rhodesian currency. The pro- ceeds of permitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in foreign currency other than Rhodesian cur- rency; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special reg- ulations. Residents are defined as persons who are permanently resident, for exchange control purposes, in the Scheduled Territories. However, some Irish regu- lations are in terms of Irish residents (residents of Ire- land) only. Ireland is a Scheduled Territory for purposes of the exchange control regulations of the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in the Scheduled Terri- tories are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in countries outside the Scheduled Territories are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, are desig- nated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for transfer to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency sold by a resident of a country outside the Scheduled Territories to an authorized bank in Ireland. Balances on these accounts may be transferred freely to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any foreign currency other than Rhodesian cur- rency. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rhode- sia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, re- quire the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rhodesia require a special license. With this exception, the im- port of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of administrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of certain commodities are subject to quantitative restric- tions, which, in most cases,are on a world-wide basis.3 Individual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quantity of goods im- 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND ported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain textiles and yarns originating in any of 16 speci- fied countries or territories.4 All other imports are free of quantitative restriction. Under the other type of con- trol, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating out- side the Scheduled Territories, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months after the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or per- mission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding £Ir 2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Territo- ries. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Scheduled Territories are not sub- ject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Scheduled Territories. Payments to resi- dents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is delegated to the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel outside the Scheduled Territories (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance for residents of the State of £lr 300 a person for each trip. For business travel, up to £Ir 2,000, at a rate of £Ir 40 a day, is allowed for each journey, or alternatively up to £Ir 300 for each trip. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applica- tions for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than £Ir 250 of an allowance of foreign currency may be issued in the form of currency notes. Persons travel- ing to destinations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to £Ir 25 in Scheduled Territory currency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Scheduled Territories (other than Rhodesia) may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other bank- notes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restriction on the export of a number of items to Rhodesia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Scheduled Territories must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £lr 100. When payment is received in foreign currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £Ir 2,000 to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. 250 Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing ex- change receipts from invisibles, but if foreign currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any foreign currency held by a person after his return from a trip abroad may be retained for three months from the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of capital between Ireland and other Scheduled Territories are not subject to exchange control. Exchange control approval is re- quired for all transfers of capital to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Applications for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by resi- dents of the State emigrating to OSA countries, EEC member countries other than the United Kingdom, or RNST countries are approved up to a limit of £Ir 20,000 a family; there is no such allowance for emigration to Rhodesia. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds £lr 20,000, the transfer of the excess amount is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redesignation as a nonresident, i.e., from the date of departure from Ireland. After the four-year period, the assets are to be treated in the same way as those of non-Scheduled Territory residents who have never been resident in Ireland. However, permis- sion is given at any time after redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred outside the Scheduled Territories through the investment currency market (see below) or invested in Irish registered securities or in sterling securities.5 For Irish residents taking up employment and resi- dence in an EEC country other than the United King- dom, applications are considered to transfer Irish or U.K. assets to their new country of residence in excess of £lr 20,000; the additional facilities are authorized at the official rate of exchange if they are shown to be appropriate to ensure the applicant's freedom to take up employment in the country concerned. Applications for the transfer of resident-owned capital for purposes other than emigration are considered on their merits, but there are special facilities for residents taking up employment in EEC countries other than the United Kingdom and for direct investment in such countries. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capital, but net inflows into the banks may be subject to guidelines set from time to time by the Central Bank. Banks have been requested to deposit with the Central Bank 50 per cent of any net capital inflows after January 16, 1973; however, subject to prior consultation with the Central Bank, the deposit requirement may be waived for capi- tal inflows that assist in the financing of major indus- trial development projects. Purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution require exchange control approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in most cases re- quires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. However, investment currency, i.e., the foreign currency proceeds from the sale mainly of foreign currency securities6 sold outside the Scheduled Territories, may be fully reinvested in foreign currency securities, provided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" from securities so held, and that the invest- ment is carried out within six months from the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with invest- ment currency on or after April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Investment currency may be invested temporarily in foreign currency certificates of deposit and similar pa- per with up to six months to run to final maturity, without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on maturity or resale, provided that the limit of six months for the holding of investment currency is not exceeded. The entire foreign currency proceeds from the sale outside the Scheduled Territo- ries of property for personal use owned by residents are normally regarded as investment currency where the whole of the property is sold; where part of such a property is sold, the full foreign currency proceeds must be sold in the official exchange market. Residents may obtain, subject to individual permission, reason- able amounts of investment currency to purchase from non-Scheduled Territory residents property outside the Scheduled Territories for personal use; payments for attendant expenses and improvements must also be made with investment currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family. Purchases from resi- dents of the Scheduled Territories must be settled in sterling. Transactions in securities are controlled to en- sure that capital is not transferred outside the Sched- uled Territories. Direct investment outside the Scheduled Territories requires prior approval and may normally be financed with investment currency or by borrowing foreign cur- rency; in certain cases the use of official exchange may be approved, depending on the merits of the project. Use of official exchange is allowed, however, for all approved new direct investments in EEC member countries other than the United Kingdom, subject to a limit of £lr 250,000 a project a year, and applications to transfer larger amounts at the official exchange rate are considered on their merits.7 The foreign currency proceeds of the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Scheduled Territories are not normally eli- gible for sale in the investment currency market. Dealings in Irish registered securities are permitted freely between residents of the Scheduled Territories. Specific approval is required for all dealings by Irish residents in securities payable in Rhodesian currency. IRELAND Remittances of cash gifts or personal loans to OSA countries are normally permitted up to £Ir 1,000 a donor a calendar year; the corresponding limit for other non-Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia is £lr 300 a donor a year. For dependents, an additional amount of up to £Ir 2,000 a donor a year in cash gifts or per- sonal loans may be remitted to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. Authorized banks may freely accept deposits in for- eign currency from nonresidents of the Scheduled Ter- ritories and lend such deposits on to other nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories. Application must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank private sector borrow- ing from nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories; such applications are considered on their merits and, except as regards borrowing for the acquisition of prop- erty for personal use, on the benefit likely to accrue to the economy. Public sector borrowing outside the Scheduled Territories is undertaken following consulta- tion with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories is not nor- mally permitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to members of non-Scheduled Territories' diplomatic and consular missions in Ireland, and except that banks may freely make available loan and overdraft facilities in Irish pounds or sterling to residents of OSA countries, pro- vided the underlying transaction is a trade transaction or one associated with the movement of goods. Pro- vided that the company is not a medium for portfolio investment, a subsidiary or branch of an EEC- controlled company can, subject to exchange control approval, obtain from Irish banks all the finance it requires for its operation in Ireland. Gold* Residents may freely hold, buy, borrow, sell, or lend gold coins in Ireland. Dealings in gold bullion are re- stricted, and no dealings take place in Ireland. Al- though there are no import restrictions, residents require exchange control permission to purchase gold coins or bullion abroad. Exchange control permission also is required for the export of gold coins and bullion. Specific permission is not required to import gold coins from elsewhere in the Scheduled Territories. Specific permission is required to export gold coins to elsewhere in the Scheduled Territories, but this is given for all bona fide transactions. Specific permission is also re- quired for imports and exports of gold coins from and to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Resi- dents of Ireland are not permitted to hold gold abroad. Changes during 1974 January 1. A revised customs tariff schedule took effect. The changes included (1) a further reduction of 20 per cent in duties on imports from other EEC countries other than the United Kingdom, and the re- moval of duties on goods covered by the Euratom 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Treaty with respect to trade with all member states of the EEC (all of these reductions were applied also to goods of U.K. origin not subject to tariff reductions under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement); (2) the first move toward alignment of the full and prefer- ential rates of customs duties to the rates in the Com- mon Customs Tariff of the EEC; and (3) a fur ther reduction in duties on goods originating in certain countries having preferential agreements with the EEC, no tab ly the seven EFTA countries that had not applied for EEC membership. January 1. Ireland adopted the EEC generalized scheme of tariff preferences for imports from develop- ing countries, subject to a transitional period of two years for footwear and textiles. The scheme superseded the corresponding Irish scheme. March 27. Preferential treatment accorded to OS A countries in respect of certain transactions in securities was terminated. Proceeds from the redemption or sale of securities held by Irish residents payable in OSA currencies, which since June 23, 1972 had been eligible for transaction in the investment currency market, be- came subject to the surrender rules applicable to securi- ties payable in nonsterling area currencies. Henceforth, 25 per cent of the sale or redemption proceeds of all foreign currency securities was to be sold in the official exchange market. March 27. Some of the rules governing direct invest- ments outside the Scheduled Territories were revised. Direct investments in the Overseas Sterling Area now were normally to be financed with borrowed foreign currency or with investment currency, and the foreign currency proceeds of liquidations of direct investments in RNST countries were no longer normally eligible for sale as investment currency. Thus, the rules for direct investment outside the Scheduled Territories became uniform, apart from the relaxed arrangements which came into force in 1973 in relation to EEC member countries other than the United Kingdom. May 30. Ireland signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. June 4. A revised set of exchange control notices was issued. The country classification was changed from Scheduled Territories, External Account Area, and Rhodesia, to Scheduled Territories, OSA, EEC mem- ber countries (other than U.K. and Ireland), Rhodesia, and RNST. New definitions were provided of Irish registered securities, sterling securities, and foreign cur- rency securities. June 4. The basic foreign exchange allowance for tourist travel was increased from £Ir 250 to £Ir 300 a person a trip. Allowances for business and health travel were also raised. The cash gift allowance was increased from £lr 250 to £Ir 300 a donor a year for remittances to RNST countries. June 21. It was announced that, subject to prior consultation with the Central Bank, the requirement whereby banks must deposit with the Central Bank at 252 least 50 per cent of any net capital inflows after Janu- ary 16, 1973 could be waived for capital inflows that would assist in the financing of major industrial devel- opment projects. July 1. The n in th and penultimate annual reduction in duties on imports from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement took ef- fect. July 1. Increased global import quotas for specified industrial items came into effect for the period to Ju- ly 1, 1975, when these items would be fully liberalized from all sources. September 18. In addition to the existing allowance for cash gifts or personal loans of up to £Ir 1,000 for OSA countries and £Ir 300 for RNST countries, an exchange allowance of £Ir 2,000 a donor a year for cash gifts or personal loans was introduced for depen- dents in countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. December 9. The period allowed for the purchase of land for personal use for building purposes, when situ- ated outside the Scheduled Territories, and for comple- tion of the related project, including any payments to a nonresident builder, was increased from 18 months to 2 years. The full foreign currency proceeds from the sale of any part of such a property were henceforth required to be disposed of in the official exchange mar- ket; previously, 75 per cent of such proceeds could be sold in the investment currency market. Where the whole of a property was sold, the full sale proceeds would normally continue to be regarded as investment currency. December 9. Residents of Ireland henceforth could apply for permission to accept foreign currency cash loans (from resident banks or nonresidents) for the purchase of property situated outside the Scheduled Territories, provided the foreign currency was immedi- ately sold at the official rate of exchange to an autho- rized dealer and provided the purchase transaction was financed in the usual way with investment currency. The loan proceeds could be used immediately for the purchase if a "switch and surrender" transaction (pur- chase of investment currency and simultaneous resale at the official rate) was first effected in respect of the full amount of the loan. In addition, applications could now be made by residents of Ireland for permission to enter into extended credit arrangements (including mortgages) offered by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories. The full amount of the credit had to be covered by a "switch and surrender" transaction in the investment currency market; irrespective of the credit period, the purchaser would be required to cover the complete sum with investment currency within the ap- propriate six-month or two-year period allowed for the completion of the sale. In all cases, interest, at a rate acceptable to the exchange control authorities, could be paid at the official rate of exchange, subject to prior approval from the Central Bank. Capital repayments could be made at the official rate of exchange once the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution total capital sum borrowed had been covered with in- vestment currency. Once the borrowing (under either facility) had been covered by an investment currency transaction, so that capital repayments could be made with official exchange, rental income could be applied to capital repayments. NOTES 1 The Overseas Sterling Area thus comprises Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Solomon Islands Protectorate, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony, Guyana, Hong Kong, Iceland, India and Sikkim, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Leeward Islands, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldive Islands, Malta, Mauritius and Depen- dency, Nauru, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Pit- cairn Islands, Qatar, St. Helena and Dependencies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Namibia, (South West Africa), Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Samoa, Windward Islands, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, and Zambia. IRELAND 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than those of a Scheduled Territory. 3 Most of the remaining quotas are being gradually in- creased in accordance w i th EEC commitments and with an obligation in the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement; the enlargements are made on a global basis, although the obligations relate only to goods originating in the United Kingdom and the other EEC countries. 4 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 5 Securities solely payable in pounds sterling and quoted on a recognized security market within the Scheduled Territo- ries. 6 Foreign currency securities are all securities on which capital moneys and dividends are payable or optionally pay- able in a foreign currency and that are quoted on a recognized security market. 7 With effect from January 1, 1975, the use of official ex- change was allowed for all approved new direct investments by Irish residents in EEC member countries other than the United Kingdom. 8 In April 1975, specific exchange control permission was again required for the purchase of gold coins outside the State. Specific permission to buy or export gold coins or bullion outside the State henceforth was normally given for numismatic and industrial purposes, respectively. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.122777 gram of f ine gold per Israel Pound, which corresponds to I£6.00 = US$1, and Is- rael avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Israel's official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were I£6.0000 and I£6.0042, re- spectively. The Bank also establishes buy ing and selling rates for certain other currencies. Authorized banks are permitted to buy and sell foreign currencies at spot rates different from those officially quoted by the Bank of Israel, but they may quo te rates only w i th in the range established by the quo ta t ions of the la t ter. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Depar tment of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Fi- nance, under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and in cooperation with other gov- ernment agencies and is carried out th rough authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts and receipts must be effected in the cur- rency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements w i th countries w i th wh ich pay- men ts agreements are in force1 are usua l ly made in U.S. dollars as an accounting unit. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign cur- rency accounts or on local currency accounts. The opening of nonresident foreign currency accounts does not require prior approval. The principal type of non- resident foreign currency account is the PATACH ac- count. The holder may freely effect transfers from his foreign currency account; he may also convert funds held in the account in to local currency at the official rate of exchange. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts —for payments to and hold- ings of foreign av ia t ion, shipping, insurance, and f i lm companies and for non transferab le holdings of former residents —may be established on ly w i th special ap- proval. Funds acquired from the sale of real estate and awa i t ing repatriation must also be held in Registered Accounts. Aviation, shipping, and insurance compa- nies may freely convert at the official rate of exchange any amoun ts held on these accounts which are surplus to local requirements; film companies may do so under ind iv idual arrangements made w i th each company. Registered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israeli securities, 254 for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I£250 a day for the account holder and for each member of his fam i ly, for remittances of up to I£15,000 a year in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the settlement of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to public and charitable ins t i tu t ions. Funds represent- ing the sales proceeds of certain real estate become transferable after five years, in equal installments over the fo l low ing f ive-year period. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be t rans fe r red. (2) Other nonresident accounts in local currency may be used to hold funds derived f rom former inves tmen ts that are eligible for transfer at the official exchange rate. Balances may be transferred freely between nonresi- dents. The accounts may be liquidated at any time by the purchase of fore ign exchange at the official rate; such foreign exchange may be freely transferred abroad or credited to a PATACH account. Funds in these ac- counts may also be used w i th in Israel by conversion in to Israel pounds, and no limit is placed on the amount that may be w i thd r awn. Israeli citizens who are temporar i ly living and earn- ing abroad may maintain foreign currency in tempo- rary PAMAZ accounts in Israel. Balances in such accounts may be freely used abroad when the holder is abroad; when he is in Israel he may only convert these funds in to local currency at the official exchange rate. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may ma in ta in foreign currency deposits w i th authorized banks in Israel on either PAZAK ac- counts, which may be held by all recipients of foreign exchange other than those to whom exchange has been allocated from domestic sources, or TAMAM accounts, which may be held by recipients of res t i tu t ion pay- ments and disability pensions. PAZAK accounts are demand or t ime deposit ac- counts denominated in convertible currencies. All for- eign exchange receipts, except those derived from exchange allocations by the M in is try of Finance but including export proceeds, may be placed in PAZAK accounts. Account holders may retain foreign exchange in this manner or may exchange it in to local currency. Account holders may use foreign exchange balances in PAZAK accounts to make any authorized foreign pay- ments. Balances in PAZAK accounts are not negotiable between residents, but only among members of the immediate fam i ly of the account holder. TAMAM accounts also are demand or time deposit accounts in convertible currencies. One th ird of con- vertible exchange receipts derived from personal resti- tu t ion paymen ts and from pensions, etc., of disabled soldiers who served during World War II may be cred- ited to TAMAM accounts. The permitted uses of TAMAM ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution accounts include the following: (1) the purchase through the medium of the authorized bank holding the account of foreign securities denominated in convert- ible foreign currency that are registered on a stock exchange in specified foreign countries; (2) payment of premiums on existing life insurance policies denomi- nated in foreign currency; (3) payment of expenses in connection with travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation of the equivalent of US$450 a trip, provided that not more than the equivalent of US$1,800 a year is drawn by the account holder and for each member of his family; and (4) payment of legal expenses resulting from restitution claims. NATAD accounts are transfer accounts in foreign ex- change that are used mainly for transactions in foreign securities. As stated above, holders of TAMAM accounts may purphase abroad foreign securities denominated in convertible foreign currency and registered on a stock exchange in specified foreign countries. Foreign securi- ties thus acquired may be traded freely between resi- dents, through the intermediary of the authorized bank that is the depository, against payment either with NATAD or TAMAM funds or in Israel pounds. If the original buyer resells securities bought with TAMAM account funds for foreign currency he may deposit the proceeds in TAMAM accounts. Residents who are not holders of TAMAM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign securities in NATAD accounts. Balances in NATAD accounts may be used to purchase fu r ther foreign securities but are not negotiable between residents. If foreign securities are sold between residents against Israel pounds, the con- version factor used to establish their domestic currency value is the so-called NATAD rate. On December 31, 1974, it stood at I£6.00 per U.S. dollar. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources and all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. In addition, 31 import items, mainly luxury goods, are temporarily prohibited.2 All commodities whose importation is not liberalized are listed in a Negative List. Imports of goods listed in the Free Import Orders are free of all licensing and administrative or quan t i ta t ive restric- tions. All other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Automatic Approval List, licenses are issued automatically upon application. All other permissible imports constitute the Restricted List. All individual import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Minis- try of Finance. The currency and method of payment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. Six basic food products (frozen meat, milk powder, wheat, oilseeds, edible fats, and sugar) are im- ported exclusively by or for account of the Government of Israel. ISRAEL Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted auto- matically. If payment is to be made by documentary credit, the foreign currency required may be purchased at the time of opening the credit. Funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special ac- count with the Bank of Israel until transfer is made. Licenses are not issued for imports of goods on con- signment unless the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$100,000 or more within three months and undertakes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods in local currency with the Bank of Israel through an authorized bank. Each license is valid only for a single commodity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The ap- proval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits; foreign currency financing is not normally permitted except for raw materials or capital goods valued at US$100,000 or more. Importers are required to deposit with the Treasury, at the time of paying the import duty and for a period of one year, without interest, 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports. Exempt are commodities subject to customs du ty at a rate of less than 40 per cent (includ- ing the 15 per cent surcharge, see below), imports by or for the Government, goods imported for personal use by residents and immigrants, imports for re-export, and imports with a c.i.f. value of I£5,000 or less. Virtu- ally all imports are subject to an import surcharge of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The main exemptions are for a few basic foods tuffs and uncut diamonds. A pur- chase tax is levied on almost all imported and domesti- cally produced goods, other than capital goods. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require individ- ual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equiva- lent to US$10-250, which is obtainable on demand, for certain purposes such as the purchase of books, mem- bership dues, and registration in a university. For tour- ist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equivalent to US$450 a traveler for each journey (US$350 for children under 12); emigrants are allowed to take out US$10. For travel for business reasons, the allowance is US$50 a day for the first 21 days; applica- tions for additional amounts are approved by the Con- troller of Foreign Exchange when it is established that the exchange is to be used for genuine travel expendi- ture, and exporters are not subject to these limits. Not more than I£200 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are permit- ted to repurchase through authorized dealers foreign currency up to US$30. Residents traveling abroad must pay a travel tax of I £7 50 plus 15 per cent of the price of the ticket. Travelers to specified countries are taxed at a lower rate; these include Cyprus, Ethiopia, and Romania. Exporters doing more than US$100,000 of 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL export business a year are exempt from travel tax on business trips. Imm igran ts and their families are ex- empt from travel tax for three years from the date of imm igra t ion or of en t ry as temporary residents. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not require licenses if paid for in freely convertible currencies. For some commodities, however, export li- censing is retained for the purpose of qua l i ty control. The M in is t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry ma in ta ins a check on export transactions w i th a low value-added content which are made w i th bilateral partners; this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export pro- ceeds in fore ign currencies must be surrendered or held in a PAZAK account. Exports of most commodities are eligible for incen t ive payments calculated on the gross value of exports and based on domestic value added; they are designed to rebate estimated in ternal indirect taxes and the import surcharge. At the end of 1974, the payment for diamonds was I£0.20 per US$1 of gross export value, and for other commodities the payment ranged f rom I£1.08 to I£1.30 per US$1 of gross export value, w i th the higher rates applicable to commodities w i th a higher proportion of domestic value added.3 For i n p u ts directly imported by an exporter there is a sys- tem of rebate of customs duties, wharf charges, etc. Proceeds from In visibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles mu s t, in general, be surrendered. A l te rna t ive ly, they may be kept in fo r- eign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged in to Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized paymen ts abroad. Any resi- dent is free to accept specified convertible currencies f rom tourists in payment for services and commodities other than commercial exports, securities, and real es- tate; such receipts must be surrendered w i th in a few days. One third of the foreign exchange received by resi- den ts of Israel as res t i tu t ion paymen ts, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts and the other two th i rds may be held in PAZAK accounts. For ten years a f t er en ter ing Israel, new imm ig r an ts are exempt f rom surrender ing the ir fore ign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these fore ign curren- cies w i th authorized banks in Israel or w i th banks abroad. Tourists v is i t ing Israel are expected to bring w i th them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need du r ing the ir stay. Not more than I£200 in Israel bankno tes may be b rought in by travelers. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I£250 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their families; if they are holders of 256 other non res ident local currency accounts, they may draw on them w i thout l im i t. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident must be surrendered at the o f f ic ial rate or held in a PAZAK account. Capital b rought in to Israel for the purpose of inves tment may, subject to approval, be granted preferen t ial trea tment in accordance w i th the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Inve s tmen ts of August 16, 1959, which, in ter alia, permits a nonresident who has made an "ap- proved" inves tment in foreign currency to transfer all his p ro f i ts abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repayments and amortization of capital may also be transferred on the fo l low ing terms: if the inves tment has been kept for less than f ive years, the capital may be w i thd r awn in f ive equal installments; if the invest- ment has been kept for more than f ive years, it may be w i thd r awn immed ia te ly. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of produc t ion that f u l f i ll one of the fo l low ing condi- t ions: (1) that they are established in "priority areas"; (2) that they are export-oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of ou tput is exported or existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent wh i le at least 50 per cent of the add i t ional ou tput is exported; or (3) th a t, a l though for economic reasons the enter- prise cannot be established in a priority area, its pro- duction is of the impo r t -subs t i tu t ion type. There is no longer any d i f fe rence between an "approved invest- ment" and any other investment made by a nonresident in fore ign cu r rency inso far as his rights to transfer abroad the pr inc ipal or the interest or prof i ts on his inves tment are concerned. The difference does still exist as regards o ther bene f i ts, such as income tax conces- sions and gran ts. The principal of fore ign inves tmen ts made prior to Janua ry 1, 1958, or made a f ter that date in foreign exchange, can be transferred abroad. The proceeds of inves tmen ts in real estate, however, can on ly be trans- fe r red f ive years a f t er its purchase, in f ive equal annual installments over the following five-year period. Proceeds accruing f rom the repatriation or liquida- tion of fore ign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds f rom invisibles. Any resident may retain real estate abroad, but not money, securi- ties, or the income f rom real estate; new imm igran ts may retain l iqu id assets as well. Transfers abroad of a capital na tu re by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Owners of TAMAM deposits are entitled to purchase foreign securities registered at stock exchanges in speci- fied foreign countries. Foreign securities purchased to the debit of a TAMAM deposit can be sold abroad by their owners, or in Israel either against foreign currency to owners of other TAMAM or NATAD deposits or against Israel pounds. The proceeds of the sale may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution credited to the TAMAM account previously debited for the purchase. The owner of foreign securities bought through TAMAM or NATAD accounts is also allowed to sell them to residents against Israel pounds, and the purchaser in his turn may sell them either against Israel pounds or against foreign currency (abroad or to hold- ers of TAMAM or NATAD deposits); he is entitled to deposit the foreign currency proceeds in a NATAD ac- count. This is the only manner in which NATAD ac- counts can be established. The holder of a NATAD account may draw on it to purchase foreign securities abroad, or to pay to a holder of a TAMAM or NATAD account foreign currency for foreign securities. It is also permissible to purchase gold from monies in TAMAM and NATAD accounts, the pro- cedure being the same. A general license allows authorized dealers to pur- chase real estate in Israel for nonresidents. Nonresi- dents may freely purchase shares, provided that purchases are financed w i th converted foreign cur- rency; debentures, however, may be purchased by non- residents only if they are quoted on the Tel Aviv stock exchange. Direct loans in any form to or from nonresi- dents are subject to licensing. Gold Residents, including private persons, may freely hold gold in any form either in Israel or abroad; purchases by private persons must be financed out of TAMAM or NATAD accounts, except for purchases of jewelry and of articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as watches. Gold can be sold only to an authorized dealer and can be bought only from an authorized dealer. Other residents are forbidden to trade in gold, to trans- fer it from place to place, or to take it out of Israel. Imports of gold are permissible only if an import li- cense is obtained. Imports of gold for industrial pur- poses are transacted by five importing wholesalers. These wholesalers may sell the gold only to purchasers registered with the Purchase Tax Administration. The latter checks these purchases by each manufacturer against the gold content of products marked as "pur- chase tax paid" in order to eliminate the possibility of sales of these quantities of gold on the market as bul- lion. Changes during 1974 January 1. The import deposit scheme was abolished under which for most imports valued at over I £5,000 a domestic currency deposit of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value had to be lodged with the customs for a period of six months. January 1. Customs duties on a wide range of im- ports were reduced by 2.5 to 8 percentage points. January 1. Final reductions in tariffs under the pref- erential trade agreement with the EEC came into effect. January 6. The negative interest rate was abolished which had been levied on nonresidents' holdings of ISRAEL Belgian francs in nonresident foreign currency accounts in excess of balances on February 19, 1973. This termi- nated the last remaining ruling under the Bank of Israel directive of April 2, 1973 which had introduced a nega- tive interest rate. April 1. The temporary import surcharge of 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value levied on virtually all imports was extended to April 1, 1975. May 4. The par value was changed from 0.194884 gram to 0.175396 gram of f ine gold per Israel pound, equivalent at the time to I£5.06665 per SDR 1. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar re- mained unchanged at I £4.20 = US$1. Israel continued to avail itself of wider margins. May 24. A new import deposit scheme was intro- duced. Importers were required to deposit with the Treasury domestic currency equal to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imported goods bearing duties of 35 per cent and over (including the 25 per cent import sur- charge). The deposit was payable at the time of paying customs duties and would be held for one year without interest. Government imports, imports with a total c.i.f. value of I£5,000 or less, and imports for personal use or for re-export were exempt. July 2. The temporary import surcharge was in- creased from 25 per cent to 35 per cent of the c.i.f. value. July 2. The import deposit requirement was modified to cover imports bearing customs duties of 60 per cent or more (including the increased import surcharge of 35 per cent). July 2. Export rebates were increased from a range of up to I£1.42 to up to I£1.84 per U.S. dollar of gross export value. July 2. Customs duties were reduced by 5 percentage points on a wide range of imports. November 10 (November 9, Washington time). The par value of the Israel pound was changed from 0.175396 gram to 0.122777 gram of fine gold, corre- sponding at the time to I£7.23807 per SDR 1. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar became I£6.00 = US$1. Israel continued to avail itself of wider margins. November 10. The temporary import surcharge was reduced from 35 per cent to 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Seven exempt commodities (crude petroleum, wheat, maslin, rice (both rough and in other forms), soybeans, soybean oil, and copra) became subject to the surcharge. November 10. The import deposit requirement was modified to cover imports bearing customs duties of 40 per cent or more (including the reduced import sur- charge of 15 per cent). November 10. Export rebates were reduced from a range of up to I£1.84 to up to I£1.30 per U.S. dollar of gross export value. The special rebate for exports of diamonds was reduced from I£1.10 to I£0.20 per U.S. dollar of gross export value. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL November 10. Imports of 31 items, mainly luxury goods, were temporarily prohibited. The ban was to be lifted on May 1, 1975, except for passenger automo- biles, for which this was to occur on September 1, 1975. November 10. A temporary increase in customs duties of 10 percentage points was imposed on 38 items, mainly luxury goods. The increase in duties was to be removed on May 1, 1975. Simultaneously, an increase of 10 percentage points in the purchase tax was im- posed on 16 commodities. November 10. A levy was imposed on stocks of im- ported goods and on imported goods cleared through customs before November 10 but not released from harbors. The levy was applied at the rate of 43 per cent plus any difference between the amount of taxes and surcharges paid prior to November 10 and the amount of such taxes and surcharges due on November 10. Goods sold before November 10 for the personal use of private persons, and stocks on which the levy did not exceed I£5,000, were exempt. November 10. A levy of generally I £1.80 per US$1 was imposed on devaluation increments on wo rk ing capital in foreign currencies held by banks or by f irms (other than maritime and insurance companies) which had received allocations of foreign currency for such capital. November 10. The travel tax was increased to I £750 plus 15 per cent of the cost of the ticket and was made uniform for sea and air travel. November 10. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel was reduced to US$50 a day for the f i r st 30 days, and US$40 a day for the next 20 days, up to a maximum of US$2,300 a person a trip. Exporters were not subject to the new limits. November 19. Importers were permitted to seek fo r- eign currency f inanc ing on imports of raw materials and capital goods valued at US$100,000 or more (pre- viously, US$250,000 or more); in addition, the Ministry of Finance was prepared to guarantee the exchange risk. November 25. It was announced that banks' author- ity to grant general approval for foreign exchange transactions by firms ho ld ing foreign currency balances in Domestic banks or in designated banks abroad was being suspended, w i th effect f rom February 1, 1975. Following a review by the M in is t ry of Finance, banks would again be allowed to grant general permissions on the basis of a f i rm 's anticipated transactions needs. December 6. The foreign exchange allowance for business travel was f u r t h er reduced to US$50 for the f i rst 21 days of each trip. NOTES 1 Brazil, Bulgaria, and Por tuga l. 2 The impo r ts temporar i ly proh ib i ted inc lude passenger automobiles, television sets, cement, and f u r n i t u r e. The pro- h ib i t ion is to be removed on May 1, 1975 for all items except au tomob i les, for wh ich the p roh ib i t ion is to be te rm ina ted on September 1, 1975. 3 On J a n u a ry 1, 1975, the export rebates for goods other than diamonds were increased to a range f rom I£1 .23 to I£1.64 per US$1 of gross export va lue. On J anu a ry 9, the rebate for d iamonds was increased to IE0.75 per US$1 of domestic va lue added. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00142187 gram of f ine gold per Italian Lira. A central rate of Lit 581.500 = US$1 has been established. On February 13, 1973, however, I ta ly notified the Fund that for the time being the exchange rate for the lira on the official market for current trans- actions would not necessarily be confined within the announced limits either in respect of the U.S. dollar or in respect of EEC currencies. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 was about Lit 650 per US$1. The monetary authorities do not in principle inter- vene in the fo rwa rd exchange market; forward premi- ums and discounts are normally left to the in terp lay of market forces, although the Bank of Italy (the central bank) may f rom time to time offer the commercial banks certain swap facilities. Authorized banks are al- lowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in major convertible and externally convert- ible currencies,1 when dealing with other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing with nonbanks. The permissi- ble amount of forward transactions against lire is sub- ject to a limit on net transactions set individually for each bank. Forward cover is freely permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of financial transactions requires authorization. Public corpora- tions which have been instructed to borrow abroad on behalf of the Bank of Italy receive full forward cover for their debt service payments. Italy formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ital- ian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Minis- try of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Institute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the M in is try of Foreign Trade and are subject in addi- tion to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and f rom the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries must normally be made in convertible currencies or in lire on Foreign Accounts. For settlements with Egypt, special arrange- ments are applicable under a debt liquidation agree- ment with that coun try. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which non- residents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts and Capital Ac- counts. The use of these accounts, and of Special Ac- counts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited w i th transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with lire from authorized current and capital payments, and with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies in the ordinary market, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account Under Law No. 43, for payments to residents of I ta ly for current and capital transactions, for pay- ments due to residents on account of their disinvest- ments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited w i th transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, and from other Capital Accounts, and with the proceeds from the liquidation of foreign in- vestments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of Feb- ruary 7, 1956 (see below). Capital Accounts may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the purchase of invest- ments not made under Law No. 43, including pur- chases of personal property or real estate in I ta ly. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in I ta ly convertible currencies or exter- nally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of convertible currencies sold in I ta ly, with transfers from Foreign Accounts, or from other Special Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of investments that have been made in accor- dance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for pur- chases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or any other Special Account Under Law No. 43. Imports and Import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Practically all imports from other countries except Ja- pan, the People's Republic of China, North Viet-Nam, and the CMEA countries are free of quantitative re- 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY striction; all goods, however, require a bank certificate for submission to the customs authorities and some- times also a license issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Com- modities that still require individual licenses when im- ported from these other countries are included in a negative list ( Tabella A Import).2 Some items in the list require an import license only when originating in Is- rael or Yugoslavia. The general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Egypt and Yugosla- via only if the goods both originate in and are shipped direct from the country concerned; in addition, in re- spect of imports of raw cotton, rice, and crude petro- leum f rom Egypt, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. (Seventy per cent of the value of other imports from Egypt must be paid to creditors residing either in that country or in any OECD country, and 30 per cent must be paid in lire to Egypt's lire account with the Italian Exchange Office.) A more extensive negative list {Tabella B Import) contains those commodities which require an individ- ual license when originating in and imported from Al- bania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, No r th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., or No r th Viet-Nam. There is a special list of commodities, also included in Tabella B Import, whose importation is unilaterally and de facto liberal- ized when they both originate in and are shipped f rom Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, or the U.S.S.R. These goods may be admitted by the customs w i thout a li- cense, a l though some require a visa issued by the Insti- tu te of Foreign Trade. A separate negative list applies to Japan indicating the goods that are subject to restrictive import licensing when imported f rom that coun try; some other items are included in a special list of commodities for which im- port licenses are issued free ly. All other goods of Japan- ese origin3 may be imported freely w i thout an ind iv idual license, irrespective of the coun t ry from which they are shipped. Impo r ts f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock prod- ucts. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 m i l l ion in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports f rom Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form com- pleted by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 million in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. The impor ter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, 260 through which he must carry out all payments opera- tions related to his import transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days after importation. Ad- vance payments for imports require special approval when they are to take place more than 30 days before importation. All advance payments of Lit 1 million or more must be made with foreign currency borrowed from Italian authorized banks. Imports from all sources of most commodities other than raw materials, capital goods, and beef and cattle are subject to an advance import deposit of 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value, which is retained at the Bank of Italy for six months.4 For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a Foreign Account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). In- ternational postal money orders may be used for im- port payments, subject in the case of payments to Switzerland to a limit of Lit 100,000 for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Un- der general authorization, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted, except for tourist travel and travel for business, study, or health reasons. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings on investments. Residents may use interna- tional postal money orders for payments, subject in the case of payments to Switzerland to a limit of Lit 100,000 for each remitter and foreign beneficiary. All advance payments of Lit 1 million or more for impor ts of services must be made with foreign currency borrowed f rom Italian authorized banks. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts which require a permit if they involve resi- dents of specified countries5 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes trans- actions g iv ing rise to expenditures for chartering ships (excluding charters for a single trip); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspon- dents (for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same payee); purchases of publication rights, infor- mation agencies, etc. (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 mil- lion for each contract); copyrights (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year for each contract); ser- vices of professional workers and company managers (for amoun ts exceeding Lit 5 million); and services of en ter ta iners and athletes (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million). The second group includes transactions giving ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rise to expenditures for production abroad of films, utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; col- laboration in cinematography; insurance of ships and aircraft against risks of operation;6 and other transac- tions not permitted by general authorization (when the amounts involved exceed Lit 1 million). Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 500,000 a person a year for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education (the corresponding amount for group travel also is Lit 500,000); the Exchange Office grants foreign exchange above these allowances (except for tourism), provided that it is satisfied that this is justi- fied in the light of the duration and purpose of the trip. To the extent that he refrains from obtaining an alloca- tion of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a proportionate amount in Italian bank- notes, up to Lit 35,000.7 Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon entry as well as Lit 35,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list ( Tabella Espori) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no ex- change control form is required; for exports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 2 million in value, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. The exporter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out the payments operations re- lated to his export transactions if settlement takes place more than 90 days after exportation. Unless special approval is obtained for different terms of payment (see section on Capital, below), 90 per cent of exchange receipts must be collected within 90 days of shipment, and these must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within 7 days of receipt, while 10 per cent must be collected within 24 months of shipment. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally convertible European cur- rencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in Ordinary Foreign Currency Ac- counts (Conti Valutari Ordinari) for one month, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transactions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the Italian Exchange Office or among themselves.8 Af- ter expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Italian Exchange Office at the lowest exchange rate quoted during the retention pe- riod (these rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome). Export pro- ceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to Lit 100,000 for each payment, and ITALY in certain circumstances, in foreign banknotes that are accepted in the country of issue for credit to bank accounts, balances in which are convertible at official market rates. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from current invisibles are subject to the same collection, retention, and surrender requirements as receipts from exports.8 Shipping and insurance com- panies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep operating accounts (Conti Autorizzati) in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, and externally con- vertible European currencies. Residents may not retain any foreign banknotes left over from trips abroad but must sell them to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes and Lit 35,000 in Italian banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident cap- ital are free. However, loans of any kind from nonresi- dents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respec- tively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long-term loans (other than loans from financial insti- tutions to nonresidents) for the purpose of establishing or maintaining lasting economic relations and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship, and, with regard to EEC countries, short-term (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and medi- um-term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 million) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the performance of services); for none of these is any kind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. A deposit requirement is applicable to outward transfers of resident-owned capital for direct invest- ments, portfolio investments, financial loans, purchases of real estate, and personal capital movements. The transferor must lodge a lira deposit equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount transferred (25 per cent for invest- ment fund securities, but mutual funds investing en- tirely in Italian securities are exempt) in a noninterest-bearing account with the bank effecting the transfer. In addition, when foreign investments are transferred between residents against lire, the transferee is subject to the deposit requirement, regardless of the date when the investment was made. The deposits are released only when, and to the extent that, disinvest- ment operations occur, and their release requires the prior approval of the local Bank of Italy office. Pur- chases by residents of certain bonds issued by specified EEC institutions are exempt. Outward direct invest- ment transactions have from time to time been given an ad hoc exemption. Foreign investment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 and subsequent 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY implementing regulations. Foreign investments of any kind in Italy, including both direct and portfolio invest- ment and the purchase of real estate, are permitted freely, and no restrictions are applied to their repatria- tion. Direct investment in OECD countries by physical or juridical persons (other than participation by a finan- cial ins t i tu t ion that has its main office in I ta ly in a foreign company not having the same corporate pur- pose), is permitted in any form and w i thout any l im i t .9 Direct investment in other countries may be made only (under the supervision of the Italian Exchange Office) by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm mak ing the investment; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization from the Minis- try of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation proceeds of previous investments (after crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those established for proceeds from exports and invisibles; see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above). Residents of I ta ly are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of I ta ly or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on for- eign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or w i th a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. The purchase by residents of shares of foreign financial institutions of any k ind (including mu tual funds), as well as convert- ible bonds issued by such institutions, requires prior approval by the Italian Exchange Office. In practice, however, a resident is able to freely purchase shares of foreign funds that have received authorization from the Ministry of Foreign Trade to sell their shares in I ta ly, since that authorization is in fact valid also for the individual resident subscriber. Such authorization is given only to funds meeting certain requirements, in- cluding that of investing at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and that of setting up a branch office in Italy. Residents do not require authori- zation to purchase real estate in EEC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Minis- try of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules gov- erning the issue in Italy of domestic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues beyond Lit 500 million, that of the Min- istry of the Treasury, the Ministry of Indus try, and the Interministerial Credit Committee. Issues are normally restricted to international institutions. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made freely. The transfer of prop- erty of residents leaving Italy permanently is allowed in two stages: up to the equivalent of Lit 6 million a per- son upon presentation of specified documents to an 262 authorized bank at the time of leaving Italy, and the remainder subject to examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office, when residence has been established abroad. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the performance of services. Advance payments for imports must be made with foreign cur- rency borrowed f rom an authorized Italian bank; in other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of For- eign Trade is required. When prepayments for imports exceed Lit 5 million, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. Deferred payments for imports are permit- ted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, w i th in 360 days af ter importation, and the balance within 24 months after importation; such payments require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to take place be- tween 12 mon ths and 24 months after importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required; where, according to the con- tract, settlement is to take place more than 360 days a f ter the date of impor ta t ion, the approval of the Minis- try is required to make the payment prior to the due date set in the contract. Advance payments for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred payments for exports are permitted if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent within 90 days after exportation, and the balance within 24 months after exportation. For settlement between 90 and 360 days a f ter exportation, the approval of the Exchange Office is required; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. V ir tua l ly identical regulations are in force for the permitted credit terms for imports and exports of ser- vices. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal gran t ing of credits for commercial transactions or the performance of services, with a ma tur i ty longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to f ive years, may be effected after examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. This applies also in relations with Austria, Finland, Nor- way, Sweden, and Switzerland. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180—360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries as indicated above. The export of Italian and foreign securities is permit- ted only when they are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Japanese yen, or externally convertible European cur- rencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Capital Account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The net external position of the banks is subject to control by the Exchange Office. This control encom- passes (1) the spot position vis-a-vis nonresidents in foreign currencies and lire together; and (2) the overall position, spot and forward combined, in all foreign currencies; a balanced foreign currency position on a daily basis is required separately in (a) U.S. dollars, (b) EEC currencies, and (c) all other con to valuta no curren- cies combined. Authorized banks are not permitted to increase their net foreign liability position beyond the level on July 19, 1974, and are prohibited from main- taining a net foreign asset position. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any form in Italy, with the exception of unrefined gold imported under ministerial license for industrial pur- poses. The monetary authorities may freely acquire un- refined gold abroad. Agent banks that have been authorized by the Ministry of the Treasury may acquire unrefined gold abroad upon submission of licenses is- sued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade to Italian firms for industrial use. Exports of wrought and semimanu- factured gold, other than jewelry, are subject to licens- ing. Imports of unrefined gold are subject to value-added tax at 12 per cent. Imports of gold coins for numismatic purposes are subject to value-added tax at 18 per cent. Changes during 1974 January 1. A new tax law came into effect. Among other things, it introduced a 15 per cent withholding tax on interest payments, but it exempted bank depos- its held by nonresident banks from this tax. February 3. The amount of the swap agreement be- tween the Bank of Italy and the U.S. Federal Reserve System was increased from US$2 billion to US$3 bil- lion. February 25. Imports of beef from "third" countries were restricted. March 5. It was announced that notes to be issued shortly by the European Coal and Steel Community would not be eligible for exemption from the deposit requirement against capital outflows. March 6. Borrowing and lending between residents of Italy and residents of Finland or Norway, in respect of imports originating in those countries and exports to those countries, with maturities in excess of those which banks could approve but not in excess of five years, henceforth were permitted subject to prior exam- ination of documents by the Exchange Office. March 8. The amount of Italian banknotes that resi- dent and nonresident travelers could freely bring in or take out was reduced to Lit 20,000 a person a trip (previously Lit 500,000 for departing travelers and un- limited upon entry); for persons living in border areas, the same daily limit was applicable for imports and exports of Italian banknotes, but within this limit they ITALY could take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of Lit 10,000. The foreign exchange allow- ances to residents for all types of personal foreign travel were maintained unchanged, but henceforth had to be marked in the traveler's passport. Furthermore, return- ing residents no longer were permitted to retain any leftover foreign banknotes or travelers checks for subse- quent use. Additional reporting requirements were in- troduced for certain outward remittances. March 11. The supervision over the import of unre- fined gold for industrial use was tightened further. March 12. Medium-term loans granted or received by Italian banks in connection with imports or exports of goods or services, whether expressed in lire or foreign currency, henceforth had to be settled in Foreign Ac- count lire or in foreign currency related to an Ordinary Foreign Currency Account. Previously, such loans were settled through the financial exchange market. March 22. The dual exchange market was unified by the abolition of the financial exchange market. The regulations regarding permitted debits and credits to Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts were revised accordingly. The Conti Valutari Finanziari were abol- ished. Italy did not resume its participation in the Euro- pean common margins arrangement. April 26. Special exchange control measures regard- ing inward remittances by emigrants came into effect. April 26. The Bank of Italy concluded a reciprocal credit arrangement for Can$250 million with the Bank of Canada. May 6. Restrictions were imposed on the allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel. The basic alloca- tion for tourism and for travel for business, study, and health reasons was reduced from the equivalent of Lit 500,000 a person a trip to Lit 500,000 a person a year; for tourism, applications for exchange in excess of the basic allocation were no longer considered. Appli- cations for additional amounts for travel for business, study, and health reasons had to be screened by the Italian Exchange Office. The supervision over the allo- cation of exchange for certain other current invisibles (family remittances, gifts, and remittances for medical treatment) was tightened; the approval authority dele- gated to banks for these items was reduced from Lit 1 million for each remitter during a period of three months to Lit 35,000 a transfer. May 6. The amount of Italian banknotes that could be exported from or imported into Italy by travelers was raised from Lit 20,000 to Lit 35,000 a person a trip, except for persons living in border areas, for whom this amount was increased from Lit 10,000 to Lit 15,000. May 6. The Italian Exchange Office announced that foreign bank credits to Italian importers could no longer be guaranteed by Italian banks. Italian banks continued to be free, however, to open confirmed lines of credit for importers. May 7. Importers were required to make a cash de- posit in lire of 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY (other than for re-export) of specified commodities, ir- respective of origin, in a noninterest-bearing account w i th the Bank of I ta ly for six months. The deposit was payable prior to customs clearance. Exempt were any impor ts valued at less than Lit 1 million, g if ts, and temporary imports (unless retained in I ta ly af ter pro- cessing). Commodities exempt from the deposit were mainly raw materials and capital goods. Financing of the deposit by foreign exporters was not prohibited, provided it took the form of a 180-day foreign currency credit extended by a bank abroad to a bank in Italy. May 27. Quarterly exchange ceilings were made available for official travel and business travel. May 30. I ta ly signed the OECD Declaration on Im- ports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transac- tions. June 10. The prior import deposit requirement was eliminated for cattle intended for fa t ten ing. June 24. The prior import deposit requirement was eliminated for pigs and pig meat. June 30. The nonresident Special Motion-Picture Accounts were abolished; existing balances were trans- ferred to Foreign Accounts in lire. From Ju ly 1, all receipts and payments connected with the motion-pic- tu re sector were settled either through such accounts or in convertible currencies. July 15. Imports of cattle and beef f rom "third" countries were suspended in accordance w i th a decision of the EEC Ministers of Agriculture. July 79. A ceiling was imposed on the banks' net external debtor position, i.e., the spot and fo rwa rd posi- tion in relation to nonresidents in foreign and domestic currencies. Hencefor th, banks were not permitted to increase this position beyond the level prevailing on Ju ly 19. At the same time, banks were required to re- port their external position daily to the Bank of I ta ly. July 22. The prior import deposit requirement was eliminated for cereals, eggs, pou l try meat, milk, dairy products, and wine. July 29. The prior import deposit requirement was reduced f rom 50 per cent to 25 per cent for beef and live cattle not intended for fa t ten ing and was eliminated for imports of certain other agricultural products and live cattle for slaughter. August 1. The Bank of Italy tightened the supervision over interbank lira payments in Italy made on instruc- tions f rom foreign banks. August 3. The max imum value of import transactions exempt f rom the prior import deposit requirement was reduced f rom Lit 1 million to Lit 0.5 million. August 10. Additional commodities were exempted from the prior import deposit requirement. September 9. Banks were informed that the exchange rate to be applied for the purpose of establishing the prior deposit requirement on imports invoiced in for- eign currencies and intended for use by public authori- ties would be the rate in effect on the day the goods arrive at customs. 264 October 23. Additional commodities were exempted f rom the advance deposit requirement. October 25. Banks were informed that the exchange rate to be applied for the purpose of establishing the prior deposit requirement on imports, other than those intended for use by public authorities, invoiced in for- eign currencies would be the average rate obtained on the day preceding the date on which the deposit is established. November 13. Additional commodities were ex- empted from the prior import deposit requirement. December 10. The Ministry of Foreign Trade dele- gated to the Italian Exchange Office certain additional exchange control powers. These related primarily to (1) the reciprocal g ran t ing of credits for imports of goods originating in OECD countries, for exports to those countries, and for the performance of services (except for EEC countries, Austria, Finland, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland); and (2) the extension of commit- ments for prepaymen ts and postpayments in respect of imports and exports of goods and services f rom and to all countries. December 16. Public ins t i tu t ions and agencies, as well as Italian private firms, were permitted to take up loans from the European Inves tment Bank (EIB) w i th- out app ly ing for the authorization prescribed by De- cree-Law No. 476 of June 6, 1956. Guarantors were permitted to assume obligations vis-a-vis the EIB where guarantees were a condition for granting the loan. December 23. It was announced that bank credits for the f inanc ing of exports, whether denominated in lire or foreign currencies, would be exempt from the ceilings on the expansion of bank credit. Furthermore, the Bank of I ta ly would give export business priority treatment, when gran t ing ref inanc ing facilities, provided that the appropriate customs documents were produced. December 24. Banks were permitted to make ad- vances in lire to residents against credits (or credit instruments) payable in convertible currency or in lire from a Foreign Account and arising from exports that could be shown to have cleared customs. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Por- tuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. These currencies are referred to in the I ta l ian regulations as convertible currencies or conto valutario currencies. 2 Tabella A Import applies to all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Ger- man Democratic Republic, Hunga ry, Japan, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., and No r th V ie t-Nam. 3 All goods that are included neither in Tabella A Import nor in List A or List B of Circular No. 606360 of May 28, 1963 (as amended). 4 The advance deposit requirement was terminated on March 24, 1975. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 5 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China (including Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Dem- ocratic Republic, Hungary, Khmer Republic, North Korea, Poland, Romania, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for chartering ships) Yugoslavia. 6 Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Industry. 7 Persons living in border areas may not take out more than Lit 35,000 a day in foreign and domestic banknotes and coins combined, of which foreign notes and coins must not exceed the equivalent of Lit 15,000. 8 Foreign currency may be retained in Ordinary Foreign Exchange Accounts until the second weekday after the end of the first calendar month following that in which the indi- vidual exchange receipt concerned was credited to the foreign exchange account. 9 Financial investment, i.e., investment not intended to es- tablish permanent relations, is not considered direct invest- ment. The regulations governing direct investment are also not applicable to participations in "holdings" abroad of any kind. ITALY 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Ivo ry Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, l which is off ic ia l ly maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the in terven t ion currency, be- tween the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place on the basis of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of Y10 of 1 per mil for transfers w i th in the West African Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per mil for transfers to countries outside the Un ion. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Mone tary Un ion, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Ivo ry Coast's exchange control measures do not app ly in f inanc ial relations with (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Terri- to ry of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Came- roon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries, except Ivo ry Coast itself, are considered fo r- eign countries, and in principle f inanc ial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of External Finance and Credit in the M in is t ry of Econ- omy and Finance, which also supervises borrow ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in Ivo ry Coast, fore ign inwa rd direct inves tmen t, and all ou twa rd inves tment in foreign countries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile the balance of pay- men ts statistics, either direct or th rough the intermedi- ary of banks, other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions, the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be ef- fected th rough authorized banks or the Postal Admin- is tra t ion. Impo rt and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the M in is try of Com- merce. 266 Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Operations Account coun try of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun try. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements w i th Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Abidjan by authorized banks' foreign corre- spondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident ac- counts of such banknotes is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain im- ports f rom the People's Republic of China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Portugal are suspended. A few im- ports f rom all sources are prohibited (e.g., a specified type of coffee-husk ing machine and wheat flour) or subject to import license (e.g., sugar, paints, matches, and detergents). Impo r ts of rice are related to domestic production in such a manner that imports are made complementary to purchases of domestically produced rice. All other impor ts f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Virtually all imports originating in EEC countries other than France or shipped from those countries also are free from quanti- ta t ive restrictions and free of license; the exceptions are some 16 items on a special list. As a rule, imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area re- qu i re import licenses and may be made in accordance w i th an import program, which is determined annually by the M in is try of Commerce. Under this program, semiannual global quotas are established for imports from such countries and special quotas for imports f rom countries w i th which Ivory Coast maintains bilat- eral trade agreements. 2 The program also includes in- dicative quotas for the EEC countries and a quota for Hong Kong and Eastern European countries. The quo- tas establish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed importers and, in exceptional cases, to industrial or agricultural producers who are considered as end-users of the im- ported goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000; transactions of lower value must be domiciled if a financial transaction is to be undertaken before customs clearance. The import licenses or import attestations entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than one month before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Any resident may freely and at any time make remittances abroad up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 without indicating their purpose. Resi- dents traveling to countries other than France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may ob- tain an exchange allocation for tourism of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a year (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten); any foreign ex- change remaining in excess of CFAF 5,000 after return to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The transfer of the full basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers going to foreign countries may take out BCEAO banknotes up to CFAF 25,000. Travelers to other Franc Area countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may freely take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000, as well as any travelers checks, etc., issued abroad. Subject to documentation, they may also take out any amount of travelers checks, etc., in foreign currency established in their name after conversion of foreign currency into CFA francs or drawn against a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency in Ivory Coast. Nonresidents who have made a currency declaration upon entry or are able to show the proper banking notices may take out higher amounts. IVORY COAST Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declaration only. Ex- ports of agricultural commodities, however, require the visa of the Directorate of Foreign Trade. The due date for payments in respect of exports to foreign countries must not be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. The proceeds must be col- lected and, if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of a country of the Franc Area, surren- dered on the exchange market, within two months of the due date. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at CFAF 500,000 or more. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area may be re- tained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes or other foreign means of payment must sell any amount in excess of CFAF 5,000 to an authorized bank within eight days and must declare them to the customs upon entry. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital trans- fers to all other countries require exchange control ap- proval, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over foreign inward direct in- vestment, over all outward investment in foreign countries, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast; these con- trols relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those relating to foreign securities, these control measures do not ap- ply to relations with France (as defined above), Mo- naco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the solicit- ing of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all public- ity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls also apply to France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Ivory Coast require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. 3 Foreign direct investments in Ivo ry Coast, 4 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The liquidation of invest- ments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Ivory Coast requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from autho- rization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Gov- ernment and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents f rom nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports in to or exports f rom Ivory Coast, or by approved international trading houses to finance inter- national merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans consti- tu t ing a direct investment is subject to the formalities prescribed for the liquidation of direct investments. The repayment of other loans requires authorization only if the loan itself was subject to prior approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control au- thorization. 268 Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs du ty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as having priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Ivo ry Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Fi- nance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this re- quirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a m inor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a weight of 250 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports and exports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French f ranc and certain other cur- rencies w i th in predetermined margins. An official deci- sion to this effect was taken by the Council of the West African Monetary Union on January 24. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Ivory Coast also ceased to operate. The financial f ranc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only th rough the official exchange market and through Foreign Accounts in Francs. The relevant exchange control regulations were issued in Ivory Coast on May 6 and June 11. May 6. Notice No. 36 revoked and replaced Notice No. 2 of December 31, 1968 and revised the regula- tions concerning nonresident accounts in francs and foreign securities dossiers in light of the abolition of the dual exchange marke t. June 11. Order No. 861 revoked Order No. 1819 of August 26, 1972. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies (spot or forward) and all payments between Ivory Coast and foreign countries or between a resident and a nonresident henceforth had to be made through the official exchange market. NOTES 1 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cur- rency in Dahomey, Ivo ry Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 2 These include Republic of China, Denmark, Egypt, Hun- gary, Israel, Japan, Norway, Poland, Sweden, and Switzer- land. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiar- ies abroad of companies in Ivory Coast. 4 Including those made by companies in Ivory Coast that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. IVORY COAST 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.900364 gram of f ine gold per Jamaica Dollar. On February 20, 1973, a central rate of J$l = US$1.10 was established, corresponding to J$1.09668 — SDR 1 or 0.810328 gram of fine gold per Jamaica dollar. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar and Jamaica avails itself of wider margins. In practice, the Bank of Jamaica's dealings against Jamaica dollars are confined to transactions in Cana- dian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars, to pur- chases of Canadian, U.K., and U.S. banknotes, and to purchases of certain Caribbean and European bank- notes (see below). It deals in other currencies only against sterling and U.S. dollars. The Bank buys and sells U.S. dollars at par, plus a commission of 3/i6 of 1 per cent on the selling side. Exchange rates for curren- cies other than the U.S. dollar (except the East Carib- bean dollar, the Guyana dollar, and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar) are based on the Bank of Jamaica's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and the rates against the U.S. dollar for the currencies concerned in international markets. The Bank of Jamaica sets daily off ic ial buy ing and selling rates for dealing w i th the banks in s ter l ing and Canadian dollars on the basis of the previous day's closing quotations in New York. On the basis of these rates, the Bank also fixes daily rates at wh ich commercial banks must deal w i th their cus- tomers in transactions invo lv ing Jamaica dollars against Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, or U.S. dol- lars. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to fix its buy ing and selling rates of exchange. On December 31, 1974 these rates relating to spot dealings with the com- mercial banks reflected no commission charge on pur- chases but a charge of Y16 of 1 per cent on sales. The commercial banks applied a commission charge (pre- m ium) of 3/8 of 1 per cent on sales of foreign exchange to customers and a commission charge (discount) of Yg of 1 per cent on purchases. For purchases equ iva lent to J$ 1,000 or more, the commission charge (discount) was waived. The Bank of Jamaica's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were US$1 = J$0.9075 and US$1 = J$0.9125, respectively. Under an arrangement with the central banks of Guyana and Trinidad and Tobago and w i th the East Caribbean Currency Au tho r i ty, the Bank of Jamaica purchases bankno tes and coins issued by these mone- ta ry authorities and repatriates them in re tu rn for reci- procity of trea tment w i th respect to collections of Jamaica dollars. The Bank's purchases are made at the middle rate determined on the basis of the preva i l ing sterling-U.S. dollar rate; for transactions in these cur- rencies, the commercial banks charge a commission of Y4 of 1 per cent either side of the middle rate, buy ing and selling. 270 There is a "bourse" (interbank exchange market) in which all commercial banks participate and in which only Canadian dollars and sterling are traded against U.S. dollars. The Bank of Jamaica does not provide forward cover to banks. Capital transactions between nonresidents and non- bank residents are in principle channeled through an investment currency market, which, however, is inoper- ative. Transactions are subject on the buying side to a premium of 10 per cent on the Bank of Jamaica's buy- ing rate and on the selling side to a premium of 20 per cent on the Bank of Jamaica's buying rate (plus the normal commission charged on sales of exchange). Jamaica formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Minister of Finance, subject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Min- ister is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and have authority to provide foreign exchange for imports up to J$ 10,000, and for basic travel allowances and certain other payments up to specified lesser amounts. Import licenses are issued by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Minister of Marketing and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Jamaica has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U .K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Paymen ts to all countries may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any for- eign currency.1 Receipts from all countries must be received by debit of an External Account or in any foreign currency. Special regulations apply to settle- ments w i th Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific authorization. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Jamaica dollars may be held by persons who are regarded for exchange control pur- poses as norma l ly permanently resident outside Ja- maica. These accounts are fu r ther designated External Accounts or Blocked Accounts. The commercial banks are empowered to open Ex- ternal Accounts in Jamaica dollars for nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia, provided that no credit of Jamaica dollars is made to the Accounts without the specific approval of the Bank of Jamaica. The funds on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution these accounts may be transferred freely between non- residents. External Accounts may be credited with pay- ments by residents of Jamaica approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of Ja- maica, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents of Jamaica (including the proceeds from the sale of undeveloped land) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be invested in local mortgages and in Jamaica dollar securities; the income from such securities is nor- mally available for credit to an External Account. Funds originally held on a Blocked Account and the proceeds of Jamaican securities purchased with blocked funds are normally available for credit to an External Account four years after the date of blocking. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Ac- counts for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. The assets of residents emigrating to countries outside Jamaica in excess of the prescribed settling-in allowance of J$l 0,000 are restricted for a period of four years (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports from member countries of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM)2 are unre- stricted under an open general license, as are a small number of goods from most other countries.3 Imports originating in Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited and all imports originating in the People's Republic of China or Cuba require individual import licenses.4 A number of tariff items or groups of tariff items included in a special schedule of exceptions to the open general license are subject to individual licensing irrespective of country of origin unless (for some of the items in this schedule) the goods originate in and are consigned from other CARICOM countries. The special schedule comprises (1) goods for which specific quotas are assigned to importers according to their past per- formance, e.g., certain types of footwear, cheese, rice, and various consumer durables (for these items import licenses are granted by the Trade Administrator against allotted quotas); (2) goods which are prohib- ited, e.g., certain automobiles, radios, television sets, canned milk, cement, cigars, citrus products, cheap clothing, household detergents, sugar, and coffee; (3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local sup- ply, e.g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables; and (4) goods licensed to meet the requirements of the tourist indus- try only (including some liquors and sports goods). Payments for imports equivalent to J$ 10,000 or more are subject to prior registration with the Bank of Ja- maica and all payments for imports are subject to the JAMAICA licensing requirements, if any, being met, and the im- porter presenting a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to shipment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments. Certain goods are subject to a consumption tax, whether they are imported or manufactured domesti- cally. Where such goods are imported, the tax is col- lected at the port of entry and is calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs and the customs duty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia, the following applies. With the exception of payments in respect of foreign travel, bona fide current payments are not restricted. Approval is granted freely for payments for all com- mercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. A basic ex- change allocation of J$500 a person for each 12-month period for foreign travel other than for business and professional reasons is made available automatically to residents by the authorized dealers; this allowance may be accumulated for up to two years. Additional amounts are granted in cases of hardship. Facilities for travel for business and professional reasons may be provided by authorized banks at the rate of J$60 a day for up to ten days a trip while applications for higher amounts are dealt with by the central bank. Expenses for hotel accommodations, meals en route, etc., that are settled in Jamaica in domestic currency must be de- ducted from the travel allocations. Authorized dealers may, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence, approve payments for the fol- lowing: consular fees without limit, as well as transfers from the Ministry of External Affairs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, High Commissioners, and diplomats; and up to a limit of J$100 for subscriptions to trade organizations and pro- fessional organizations, and for membership dues, reg- istration fees, correspondence courses, examination fees, and imports of books, magazines, periodicals, and other publications. Requests for additional amounts (except for travel) or for purposes for which there are no standard limits (e.g., remittances by charitable insti- tutions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica under a work permit are allowed, as a rule, to credit only 40 per cent of their gross salary to an Exter- nal Account. Residents going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other banknotes not 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA exceeding J$100. Nonresidents may take out the for- eign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$200 (f.o.b.) for g i f ts and JS500 (f.o.b.) for other exports may be freely exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited list.5 Where the value exceeds these amoun ts the goods may be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural prod- ucts, ammun i t ion, explosives, firearms, an t ique fu rn i- ture, ready-made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and an t ique paintings. Exporters are re- quired to surrender their exchange proceeds to autho- rized dealers within three months from the date of sh ipmen t. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their settlement of overseas commit- men ts necessary for their operations; such retained ex- port proceeds must not be sold to other nonbank residents. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Residents returning to Jamaica may bring in Jamaica banknotes up to J$20 a traveler, provided this amount was declared on leaving the country, and all travelers may bring in any amount of other banknotes; resident travelers are required to sell their holdings of foreign currencies to a local autho- rized dealer upon re turn. Capital Outflows of resident-owned capital are restricted, ir- respective of their destination. Investments abroad by residents require the approval of the exchange control authorities and are not approved unless they result in tangible benefits for Jamaica. Residents must obtain prior approval from the Bank of Jamaica to make cash gifts, which are normally limited to JS100 in any 12-month period from each adult donor, to nonresi- dents of Jamaica. With the exception of certain types of investment in real estate, all direct investments in Jamaica by nonresi- dents are granted "approved status," under which the investor is given written assurance that he will be able to repatriate at any time his original investment plus any capital gain. In order to obtain approved status, the investor must register his investment with the Bank of Jamaica. Repatriation of investments in real estate is not permitted within a period of five years following the sale of the investment if the investor failed to make any significant improvements on the land. Remittances of current items, such as profits and dividends, are permit- ted in full when the application is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. 272 Payments for amortization of, and interest on, for- eign loans approved by the Bank of Jamaica are permit- ted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, nonresidents are not normally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Do- mestic bank credit to nonresidents of Jamaica and to nonresident-controlled companies is subject to selec- tive credit controls; for this purpose, firms are consid- ered to be nonresident-controlled when the controlling interest is held beneficially, either directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside the CARICOM area. Such lending is subject to approval by the Bank of Jamaica; authorized dealers may, however, without reference to the exchange control authorities, make loans or over- draf ts to nonresidents of Jamaica up to J$2,000 for certain specified purposes. Authorized dealers may also w i thout reference to the exchange control authorities make loans or overdraf ts to resident companies or branches controlled by nonresidents up to J$20,000, provided that the borrower is not specifically precluded under some prior conditional permission from the ex- change control authorities. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Repatriates taking up residence in the country of their na t iona l i ty may transfer all their assets, with the exception of capital gains from the sale of undeveloped land; such gains are repatriable at the end of a five-year period from the date of the initial repatriation of the proceeds of the sale of other assets. However, foreign nonresident owners of land who sell it to the Govern- ment or to private individuals will receive payment in foreign exchange, subject to a minimum remittance of J$ 10,000, in equal annual installments, except where the owner had received a previous undertaking that the investment in land carried "approved status." The pol- icy of permitting nonresidents working in Jamaica un- der a work permit to acquire a house to live in continues, but the permissible amount of mortgage is restricted to 50 per cent, and the transfer of capital gains made from real estate transactions by such per- sons is restricted on their emigration to J$ 10,000 a year. Foreign sellers of land whose funds are blocked under the regulations of January 1974 and persons whose funds are restricted under Section 43 of the Exchange Control Act can invest the blocked or restricted funds locally in local registered stocks and mortgages, and income therefrom can be remitted without limit. For- eign nonresident owners of condominiums in Jamaica, when selling these to residents of Jamaica, are allowed to remit from Jamaica, in the first instance, the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price can be remitted in ten equal installments, subject to a minimum remittance in any one year of J$ 10,000. Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots are dealt with in the same manner, provided the nonresident seller can sat- is fy the Bank as to the amount spent in Jamaica, in acquiring the lot and constructing the building thereon. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Jamaican nationals emigrating are granted a settling- in allowance of the equivalent of J$ 10,000 at the official market rate of exchange; any assets in excess of the allowance are restricted for four years. Releases after four years are limited to J$ 100,000 a family unit imme- diately and J$50,000 annually thereafter. Furthermore, emigrants in possession of overseas assets at the time of emigration are expected to apply the proceeds thereof to any settling-in allowance to which they are entitled, and thereafter to any remittances from Jamaica. These arrangements are applicable also to naturalized Jamai- can citizens and to nonnationals resident in Jamaica ten years before the enactment of the Work Permit Law. Remittances to beneficiaries under wills or intesta- cies are limited to J$ 10,000 divided among them in the first instance; J$ 100,000 for all beneficiaries at the end of the fourth year after first approval of a distribution in cash or kind; and J$50,000 among them a year there- after. Gold A J$20 commemorative gold coin issued in 1972 is legal tender but does not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jamaica for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and ex- ports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. All commercial imports of jewelry are prohibited. Changes during 1974 January 1. The net short-term foreign borrowing of commercial banks became subject to a ceiling of J$30 million. Subsequently, the short-term foreign borrow- ing of the specified financial institutions was restricted to the amounts outstanding on January 31, 1974. January 1. The Bank of Jamaica ceased to make forward cover available to banks. January 9. Exports of sugar to the United Kingdom were temporarily suspended. January 15. The permission for travelers to bring in J$20 in Jamaica banknotes was restricted to residents. January 23. It was announced that imports of con- sumer goods in 1974 would be reduced from estimated 1973 levels by J$79 million and that total imports would be limited to J$645 million, c.i.f., some J$36 million more than the estimated total for 1973; certain items were banned, textile quotas were reduced, and imports of automobiles would be limited to J$5 million, subject to a c.i.f. value limit of J$3,000 for each vehicle and a rating limit of 3,000 cubic centimeters; imports of commercial vehicles would be limited to J$10 mil- JAMAICA lion. All existing import licenses for motor vehicles were revoked. January 23. Non-Jamaicans working in Jamaica un- der a work permit no longer were permitted to credit their gross salary to an External Account; henceforth, normally only 40 per cent of gross salaries and allow- ances could be so credited, but existing holders of work permits were not affected. January 23. Residents were given six months to dis- pose of any foreign assets and remit the proceeds to Jamaica. Exempt were holdings of Jamaican securities issued in London, and the foreign assets of insurance companies holding foreign assets in the same propor- tion as they had foreign liabilities. January 23. With retroactive effect from January 1, 1974, the exchange allowance for cash gifts to nonresi- dents was reduced from J$200 in any 12-month period for each donor, to J$ 100 a calendar year for each adult resident. January 23. Henceforth, imports of all commodities required a specific import license when not of CARICOM origin. The open general import license was amended accordingly. January 23. Currency declarations were required of arriving and departing travelers. January 23. The period within which exporters are required to surrender their exchange proceeds to autho- rized dealers was reduced from six months to three months after shipment. January 23. The rules for the disposal of the proceeds from the sale of land were revised. Foreign nonresident owners of land who sold it to the Government or to private individuals would receive payment in foreign exchange in ten equal annual installments, except where the owner had received a previous undertaking that the investment in land carried "approved status." The policy of permitting nonresidents working in Ja- maica under a work permit to acquire a house to live in was continued, but the transfer of capital gains made from real estate transactions by such persons was re- stricted on their emigration to J$ 10,000 a year. Foreign sellers of land whose funds were blocked under the new regulations and persons whose funds were restricted under Section 43 of the Exchange Control Act could invest the blocked or restricted funds locally in local registered stocks, and income therefrom could be re- mitted without limit. Foreign nonresident owners of condominiums in Ja- maica, when selling these to residents of Jamaica, were allowed to remit from Jamaica in the first instance, the amount they paid originally from funds brought into Jamaica; the balance of the sale price could be remitted in ten equal installments, subject to a minimum remit- tance in any one year of J$ 10,000. Foreign nonresident owners of houses built on residential lots would be dealt with in the same manner, provided the nonresi- dent seller could satisfy the bank as to the amount spent in Jamaica, in acquiring the lot and constructing the building thereon. The practice of making local 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA mortgage facilities available to nonresident nonnation- als in order to assist them to acquire real property in Jamaica would no longer be allowed, except for a non- resident work ing in Jamaica, in which case the amount that could be borrowed locally would be restricted to 50 per cent of the value of the premises. January 23. Releases of assets of emigrating Jamai- can nationals af ter the four-year restriction period were limited to J$ 100,000 a family unit immediately and J$50,000 annually thereafter. Emigrants in possession of overseas assets at the time of emigration were ex- pected to apply the proceeds thereof to any settling-in allowance to which they were entitled, and thereafter to any remittances from Jamaica. These arrangements were made applicable also to naturalized Jamaican citi- zens and to nonnationals resident in Jamaica ten years before the enactment of the Work Permit Law; previ- ously, both classes of persons were permitted to liqui- date their total assets and take the full cash proceeds overseas in one lump sum. January 23. Cash remittances to beneficiaries under wills or intestacies were limited to J$ 10,000 divided among them in the first instance; J$ 100,000 for all beneficiaries at the end of the fou r th year a f ter first approval of a distribution in cash or kind; and J$ 50,000 among them a year thereafter. January 30. The Bank of Jamaica's special arrange- ments for the purchase of Barbados banknotes were terminated. January 31. The import of additional consumer items was prohibited. February 2. Lists were published of intermediate goods, raw materials, and capital goods, for which im- port licenses would be issued when the goods were to be used in export-oriented industries. The schedule of exceptions to the open general import license was amended accordingly. February 5. Additional import items, mostly food- s tu f fs, were banned. February 12. All resident holders (physical and jurid- ical persons, whether Jamaican nationals or foreign na- tionals) of foreign assets were required to repatriate these by July 31, 1974. Exemptions were provided for cases of hardship, investments in CARICOM countries, and investments of less than J$5,000 for each company or fam i ly. Securities issued or guaranteed by foreign governments and denominated in a foreign currency could be sold to the Bank of Jamaica, which would ordinarily hold the securities until December 31, 1975, except in case of a severe deterioration in the balance of payments. March 4. Holders of foreign securities other than foreign government securities were required to sell these holdings on or before July 1, 1974, either to an authorized bank or to the Bank of Jamaica through its subsidiary, the Securities Fund (Jamaica) Limited; the Bank of Jamaica would ordinarily hold the securities until December 31, 1975, except in case of a severe deterioration in the balance of payments. 274 March 18. Import licenses for specified textile prod- ucts were made conditional on the purchase of an equal amount of these products from Jamaican or recognized CARICOM suppliers; previously, this ratio was 2:1. Fab- rics would not normally be licensed if their value ex- ceeded J$0.25 a square yard c.i.f. April 1. The Bank of Jamaica introduced an Export Credit Financing Scheme under which exporters could obtain credit for three months at a preferential interest rate of 7 per cent. The initial amount made available by the Bank to finance the scheme was J$2 million on a revolving basis. May 16. The global ceiling on total imports (c.i.f.) was increased by J$80 million (to J$725 million); the additional amount included J$5 million for private au- tomobiles and J$10 million for commercial motor vehi- cles. A number of essential imports (including raw materials and fuel for the productive sector, spare parts for machinery, medical machinery, and essential drugs) henceforth were to be licensed freely within reasonable limits, provided no local substitutes were available. May 18. Eighteen groups of trade items (including books, newspapers, surgical instruments, irrigation pumps, and insecticides) were freed from specific li- censing, provided no local substitutes were available. May 31. Mortgages were added to the approved in- vestments in which blocked funds of nonresidents could be held. June. The authorized banks' delegated authority to approve current paymen ts was narrowed. June 5. The application of exchange control to the Sterling Area was extended for another six months by a fu r ther extension of the Exchange Control (Currency) Order, 1971. On December 5, it was again extended for six months. June 8. The Bauxite Production Levy Act was en- acted. June 24. The basic exchange allowance of J$500 a person for each 12-month period for foreign travel other than for business and professional reasons could henceforth be accumulated for up to two years. June 27. Holders of securities or titles to property abroad were given the following alternative arrange- ments whereby their foreign assets could be controlled without being actually transferred to the official re- serves. Where Jamaican owners of foreign assets did not elect to repatriate these, they were required by July 31, 1974 either (1) to deposit the foreign securities or titles to property abroad with an approved depository, who could not release, sell, switch, or pledge those foreign assets w i thout the general or specific permission of the Bank of Jamaica; or (2) to transfer the foreign securities or titles to property abroad to an approved nominee holder, who would hold them at the order of the Bank of Jamaica. In either case, income earned would con- tinue to accrue to, and be payable to, the owners, but such income had to be remitted to Jamaica. The July 31 deadline was subsequently extended to Octo- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution her 31, 1974, and an amnesty was granted under the Exchange Control Act in respect of persons who had not complied with the earlier invitations to make decla- rations. August 9. The requirement of a specific import li- cense was removed for "raw materials for the local productive sector." Certain other items were designated for "free licensing within reasonable limits." August 21. Imports of certain types of leather were only permitted at a ratio of one square foot of imported leather for every three square feet of leather purchased locally. Outside the ratio system, licenses would con- tinue to be issued freely for leather required by local manufacturers of footwear for export orders. September 4. The open general import license became applicable also to Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. September 12. Importers henceforth were permitted to apply for import licenses for certain goods originat- ing in Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, or the U.S.S.R. These were countries for which import license applications had not normally been accepted. December 4. The Exchange Control Act was JAMAICA amended to accommodate the Exchange Control (Cur- rency) Order, 1971, which with effect from August 15, 1971 had reclassified all currencies other than the Ja- maica dollar as foreign currencies. NOTES 1 All currencies other than the Jamaica dollar are consid- ered foreign currencies. All foreign currencies have been des- ignated as specified currencies. 2 The CARICOM countries are Antigua, Bahamas, Barba- dos, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montser- rat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 For these goods, the open general license applies to all countries except People's Republic of China, Cuba, North Korea, Portugal and its dependencies, Rhodesia, South Af- rica, and North Viet-Nam. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 4 Trade with Cuba is restricted. The prohibition applicable to Portugal and its dependencies was lifted on February 26, 1975. 5 The list comprises Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, South Africa, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Exports to these countries require specific licenses. In practice, no li- censes are issued for exports to South Africa, and exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen. A central rate of Y 308.00 = US$1 has been established, and Japan avails itself of wider mar- gins. Since February 14, 1973, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the yen within any announced margins, and therefore all spot ex- change transactions take place at a fluctuating ex- change rate. The interbank selling rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 was about Y 301 per US$ 1. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions with nonresident banks and among themselves; their forward transactions with resident customers must have a permitted underlying transaction. Japan formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Min- istry of Finance, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, most of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to autho- rized banks referred to as foreign exchange banks. Im- port and export licensing is handled by MITI. Inward direct investments of a long-term character require the approval of the Minister of Finance and the competent minister, which is automatically granted for liberalized industries. (Most industries have already been liberal- ized, see section on Capital, below.) Outward direct investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance in exceptional cases only. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any cur- rency, including yen, and receipts also may be obtained in any currency. Settlements in yen with foreign countries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. All payments to Rhodesia require prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Indus try; in many cases such payments are prohibited or restricted for security rea- sons. Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as de- scribed below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, These accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen pro- ceeds f rom exports of goods to Japan and from other 276 authorized transactions, with yen proceeds from sales of all foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, with interest accrued on balances in these accounts, and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments. There are no restric- tions on payments from these accounts, and balances may be converted freely into any foreign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds from transactions other than those which are autho- rized to be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Ac- counts are limited mainly to proceeds from the sales of debentures and beneficiary certificates sold within six months from the date of validated acquisition. Balances outstanding on December 31, 1970 were permitted to be transferred to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts or to be remitted abroad. Balances accrued after that date are not convertible into foreign currencies, although remittances are permitted each year up to 30 per cent of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of Y 720,000, whichever is higher. With- drawals from these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in man- aging investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresi- dents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be made freely, thus en- abling the individual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for foreign currency, but there is no market for such funds in Japan. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of books and periodicals, imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are sub- ject either to individual licensing by the authorized banks or, if liberalized, to declaration to such banks. Most private imports are liberalized. There are two procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (cover- ing imports of goods on the "negative list," which com- prises 84 items, in terms of the four-digit Brussels nomenclature; 29 of the 84 items on the "negative list" have been notified to the GATT as residual restrictions while the other 55 items have been notified as falling under the national security, public health, and moral protection provisions of the GATT), the importer must first obtain from MITI ah import quota, which is based on the quantitative principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an autho- rized bank automatically upon application. Practically all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of settlement, by MITI. (2) Under the Declaration Sys- tem, imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing and require only a declaration by the importer to a foreign exchange bank. All items subject to the Declaration System may be imported from any country except Rhodesia. Items under state trading include cer- tain dairy products, certain cereals, salt, and raw and manufactured tobacco. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the "standard" methods of settlement for im- ports. When the settlement proposal is not in accor- dance w i th one of the "standard" methods (i.e., when certain advance payment is proposed or payment is to be made more than four months after customs clear- ance), prior approval of MITI must be obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Rhodesia are subject to the ap- proval of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Industry. Payments to other countries for invisibles also require approval, but cur- rent payments are not restricted and most such pay- ments are approved freely by foreign exchange banks without any limitation or w i th in certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, including pay- ments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; they are automatically approved without undue delay, upon verification of the authenticity of the current transaction. Residents may purchase foreign currencies for payments in connection with travel abroad up to US$1,500 a person a trip, subject to validation by a foreign exchange bank; applications in excess of US$1,500 a person a trip require the approval of the Bank of Japan. A traveler is permitted to pay in yen or in foreign currency, before departure, the cost of trans- portation to and from his destination and for all side trips. Residents may freely and at any time make payments abroad up to US$200 a remittance, for virtually any purpose other than import payments, repayments on loans, and technical assistance payments, etc.; the cor- responding amount for current invisibles related to trade is US$1,000 for each remittance. Certain insur- ance and technical assistance contracts require ap- proval; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Settlements which are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, individual approval; without such approval, payments for ser- vices, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months after, receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely up to Y 30,000 in Japanese currency. Subject to verifi- cation, i.e., upon presentation of documentation show- ing any prior conversion of foreign currency, a nonresident may freely purchase foreign currencies up JAPAN to the amount which he brought into Japan; without verification the conversion into foreign currencies is limited to the equivalent of US$1,000. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions exports to Rhodesia are pro- hibited. All exports to Iran, Iraq, and Nigeria require special authorization. All exports (except exports with- out exchange) must be registered with a foreign ex- change bank ("bank certification"). Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the following restrictions: restrictions on cer- tain goods to control their export to specified commu- nist countries; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., minerals, fertilizers, and sta- ple foods); and restrictions designed to forestall the imposition of import restrictions by other countries (e.g., on sewing machines and certain textiles). Exports under processing and consignment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the "stand- ard" method also require individual licenses. Under the "standard" method of settlement for ex- ports, the value of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by drawing a bill of exchange payable within f ive months after sight or within six months after ship- ment. There are no surrender requirements for foreign currency earnings. The conversion into yen of advance receipts in respect of exports, i.e., proceeds received before shipment, requires an individual license when they exceed the equivalent of US$500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the "standard" method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months after, ren- dering the service, etc., but contracts for services per- formed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method are subject to individual li- censing. Receipts from invisibles need not be surren- dered. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, mainly in accordance with the Law Concern- ing Foreign Investment (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the form of loans by foreign investors are, in principle, subject to validation or li- cense. However, acquisitions of stocks for portfolio in- vestment are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan provided the limits on foreign ownership are not exceeded; in addition, acquisitions of stocks in excess of 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN those limits are automatically approved by the compe- tent ministers, provided the corporation concerned (ex- cept when belonging to one of the 21 nonliberalized industries mentioned below) consents to foreign partic- ipation. All these acquisitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent, if the investor wishes to obtain remittance rights upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock dividends from earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. At present, the acquisition of Japanese securities by nonresidents is not restricted, although subject in the case of shares to the foreign ownership limits. The following are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds from the redemption af- ter maturity of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks, inter- est on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits from beneficiary certificates; receipts from technological assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certifi- cates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid because of ex- propriation may be repatriated freely. The remittance of the proceeds from the sale of vali- dated stocks (shares), as well as the transfer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired w i th foreign currency, is permitted. Proceeds from the sale of stocks may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Proceeds from the sale of bonds, debentures, and bene- ficiary certificates normally may be deposited in Non- resident Free Yen Accounts, if the securities have been held for six months from the date of acquisition. Pro- ceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, benefi- ciary certificates, etc., acquired with yen w i thd rawn from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be de- posited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, provided that the securities have been held for at least three years from the date of acquisition. There are no special rules prescribing that the yen proceeds from sales of securi- ties by nonresidents must within any specified period be either reinvested in securities or converted into foreign currency for transfer abroad. Repayments of loans extended to residents from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remitta- ble, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, begin- ning three years from the date of the loan. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI in advance through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain li- censes. The branches established in accordance with 278 approved procedures are permitted to remit their prof- its and principal abroad. Foreign direct investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance and the competent minister after deliberation (in certain important cases) by the Foreign Investment Council. Foreign ownership up to 100 per cent is permitted in new or existing enterprises in all but 21 industries. Among these 21, foreign ownership in 16 industries, most of which are 50 per cent liberalized, is to be fu l ly liberalized in stages between May 1975 and May 1976,1 from which time 100 per cent foreign ownership will be permitted in all but 5 industries. In 4 of these 5 industries, investment will be subject to case-by-case screening and in one, foreign ownership will be permitted up to 50 per cent. The present liberalization applies both to the establish- ment of new firms and (provided in all cases that the firm concerned consents) to take-overs of existing firms or participation in existing firms. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan, and those of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Minister of Finance. The approval of the Bank is given automatically. The transfer abroad of capital by residents and the making of investments abroad are subject to approval, but approval generally is either automatic or freely given for outward direct investment, purchases of real estate abroad, and outward portfolio investment. How- ever, the acquisition by residents of foreign short-term securities with maturities of one year or less is subject to case-by-case screening and at the end of 1974 was not normally permitted. Furthermore, for residents other than institutional investors, there are certain re- strictions on purchases of unlisted securities. In addi- tion, foreign exchange banks and securities firms were informed in January 1974 that the public should not be encouraged to buy foreign securities, but no formal controls were imposed. Japanese emigrants may remit any amount from their assets to any country subject only to verification by a foreign exchange bank. Emi- grants of foreign nationality leaving Japan also may remit to any country any amount of personal assets, subject to verification by a foreign exchange bank. Cer- tain types of outflows of long-term capital are facili- tated by a foreign currency lending system under which government institutions and foreign exchange banks are authorized to make foreign currency loans to resi- dents for 50 per cent of their direct investment opera- tions abroad and for advance payments in respect of imports. Outward financial credits and loans are sub- ject to licensing. The issuing of bonds abroad, includ- ing issues for conversion into yen for domestic use, also is subject to licensing; at the end of 1974 such issues were being permitted selectively. Securities acquired with approval under the Law Concerning Foreign Investment may be imported and exported freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Foreign exchange banks are subject to controls over their overall net position in foreign currency (spot and forward combined). The switching of foreign funds into yen by foreign exchange banks is also subject to regula- tion; their interoffice liabilities on Nonresident Free Yen Accounts are regarded as foreign exchange liabili- ties for the application of this regulation. The interest rates on Nonresident Free Yen Accounts must not ex- ceed those on resident-owned deposits, but otherwise are not subject to control. Gold Residents, including domestic producers of gold, may freely hold gold and purchase and sell it in domes- tic transactions. The import of gold bullion containing more than 45 per cent gold in weight normally is per- mitted, provided a payments license is obtained from the Bank of Japan; the volume of gold bullion imports may, however, be restricted at the discretion of the authorities if it reaches a level that would result in a disruptive influence on international gold markets. Im- ports of other gold bullion, gold coins, and articles of gold are freely permitted, subject only to verification by a foreign exchange bank. Travelers (resident or nonresi- dent) are freely permitted to bring in up to one kilo- gram of gold bullion a person a trip and up to the equivalent of US$200 in articles of gold and gold coins. Gold bullion, gold coins, and gold articles acquired by donation or inheritance may be imported freely, subject only to verification by the customs authorities. Exports of gold bullion, gold coins, and articles of gold by residents require licenses from the Minister of Finance; exports of gold bullion are not normally permitted. Changes during 1974 January 5. A trade agreement with the People's Re- public of China was signed; it included a most-favored- nation clause. January 5. It was announced that the yen-conversion ceiling on "impact loans" (untied loans from nonresi- dents to nonbank residents) would be raised progres- sively. January 7. The acquisition by residents of all foreign short-term securities (i.e., with maturities of one year or less) became subject to approval and case-by-case screening; also, the authorities informed the securities firms and foreign exchange banks concerned that the public should not be encouraged to buy foreign securi- ties, and that any net acquisition of foreign securities was considered undesirable. (The acquisition of foreign securities maturing within six months had been subject to case-by-case screening since November 13, 1973.) January 7. It was announced that resources under the Foreign Currency Lending Program of September 1972, under which government institutions and foreign exchange banks were entitled to make foreign currency loans to residents for 90 per cent of their direct invest- ment operations abroad and of their import prepay- JAPAN ments, would not be available for nonurgent invest- ment in such sectors as services or real estate; further- more, the percentage that could be lent in foreign currency would be reduced to 50 per cent. (Loans un- der the program had ceased to be available for real estate operations as from December 17, 1973.) January 7. Exporters were allowed to convert into yen prepayments of up to US$100,000 a transaction from foreign importers. (The limit had previously been set at US$10,000. The ceiling was again increased to US$500,000 on July 30.) January 17. The special rules of October 1972 were revoked which provided that the yen proceeds from sales of securities by nonresidents must within one month of receipt be either reinvested in securities or converted into foreign currency for transfer abroad. January 29. A ceiling was imposed on resident for- eign currency deposits with banks in Japan. The ceiling was set at the average of end-of-month deposit balances for each account for October-December 1973, and was to be enforced from February 26. (This restriction was, however, partially adjusted on February 27, when the ceiling was set at US$10,000 for accounts with balances of less than US$10,000.) At the same time, a similar system was introduced for companies (mainly in ship- ping and insurance), and securities dealers were re- quired to dispose of their foreign exchange proceeds (either by conversion into yen or reinvestment in securi- ties) within seven business days after each transaction. February 13. It was announced that the conversion into yen of advance export receipts in excess of the ceiling of US$100,000 a transaction would be automati- cally approved by the Bank of Japan provided they were received less than six months before shipment. March 23. In keeping with earlier moves to liberalize capital movements, the requirements for listing foreign stocks in Tokyo were relaxed; henceforth, foreign cor- porations would only be required to disclose whatever financial information is required to be disclosed by their national legislation. April 1. Import duties were reduced on 96 products. April 1. Japan's scheme of generalized tariff prefer- ences for developing countries was expanded in both country coverage and commodity coverage, and some preferential tariff rates were reduced. The scheme was also fur ther liberalized administratively. April 1. Imports of gold necklaces with a gold con- tent of not less than 50 per cent were liberalized. April 1. All purchases of foreign currency for travel again required validation or approval. Validation was required from a foreign exchange bank for amounts up to US$1,500, while larger amounts required approval by the Bank of Japan. Previously, allowances were granted freely up to US$1,000 a person a trip, higher amounts up to US$3,000 required validation by a for- eign exchange bank, and amounts in excess of US$3,000 required Bank of Japan approval. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN April 1. The amount of Japanese currency that could be taken out by resident and nonresident travelers was reduced f rom Y 100,000 to Y 30,000. April L The ceiling on "small-lot" remittances abroad, which residents may make freely and at any time, was lowered from US$1,000 to US$200, w i th the exception that the US$1,000 limit was ma in ta ined for current invisibles related to trade. April 1. Bond issues abroad were facilitated by the removal of the w i thho ld ing tax on interest paymen ts on such securities. April L The amount up to which travelers could freely bring in articles of gold and gold coins was re- duced f rom the equivalent of US$1,000 to US$200 a person a trip. April L The g ran t ing of import licenses for beef and veal for the fiscal year April 1974-March 1975 was deferred. April 11. The Expo r t - Impo rt Bank of Japan was in- structed to operate its lend ing for inves tment abroad in a restrictive manne r. At the same time, commercial banks were ins t ruc ted to re f ra in f rom f in an c ing "nonur- gent" fore ign inve s tment projects. May 13. Residents t rave l ing abroad were requ ired to have the ir passports marked for the amount of foreign exchange being purchased. May 27. An act to amend the Export In su rance Law was approved by the Diet. It empowered the Govern- ment to in troduce an exchange risk guaran tee scheme for exporters. Eligible were contracts invoiced in deut- sche ma rk, French francs, pounds s te r l ing, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. The scheme came in to effect on November 29. May 30. Japan signed the OECD Declaration on Impo r t s, Exports, and Other Cu r rent Account Trans- actions. July 30. The ceiling on the conversion i n to yen of advance export receipts was increased f rom US$100,000 to US$500,000 a transac t ion. August L The Japan Raw Silk Corpora t ion was au- thorized to act as sole importer of raw silk for the period to May 31, 1975. August 2. The yen conversion quo tas of fo re ign banks in Japan were increased. A f u r t h er increase was made later in Augu s t. August 4. Inw a rd direct inves tment i n v o l v i ng the es- tab l ishment of new f i rms engaging in the m anu f a c tu r e, sale, or leasing of electronic computers was liberalized up to 50 per cent. August 26. Restrictions on po r t fo l io inve s tmen ts in Japan by nonres iden ts were relaxed. Hence fo r th, li- censes would automatically be granted by the Bank of Japan to nonresidents for the acquisition of short-term government securities. In addition, the Bank of Japan would automatically approve the acquisition by non- residents of unlisted bonds and debentures redeemable w i th in a year. The acquisition of all these securities was previously prohibited. Furthermore, acquisition of new ly issued Japanese bonds and debentures, previ- ously subject to individual screening by the Ministry of Finance, would be automatically allowed by the Bank of Japan. As before, proceeds from the sale of Japanese bonds could not be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts unless the bonds had been held for six mon ths. September 11. The supervision over exports to the countries adjacent to Rhodesia was tightened. September 12. The 10 per cent reserve ratio on free yen deposits held by nonresidents (applicable to bal- ances in excess of those in the period May 21 —June 20, 1972) was eliminated. (The ratio had been reduced f rom 50 per cent on December 10, 1973.) September 14. The Bank of Japan w i thdrew the con- trols on interest payable on residents' and nonresidents' fore ign currency deposits w i th Japanese banks. Previ- ously, interest rates on such deposits had been subject to the same controls as those on domestic resident deposits in yen. (The w i thho ld ing tax on interest on foreign cu r rency deposits remained in force.) September 30. Japan subscribed to the Fund's Volun- t a ry Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. October 11. Impo r ts of roasted and unroasted malt were placed under the declaration system. This liberal- iza t ion measure reduced the residual restrictions noti- fied to the GATT to 30. November 15. It was announced that the conversion i n to yen of the proceeds of bond issues made abroad wou ld be allowed on a case-by-case basis. December L I nw a rd direct investment invo lv ing the establishment of new f i rms engaging in the data pro- cessing i n d u s t ry ( inc lud ing the computer software in- du s t ry) was liberalized up to 100 per cent. December 25. Impo r ts of in tegra ted circuits with not less th an 200 elements in circuits were placed under the declaration system. The number of residual restrictions was reduced to 29. NOTE 1 W i th effect f r om May 1, 1975, fore ign ownership in 12 indu s t r ies was liberalized up to 100 per cent. 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.29184 grams of fine gold per Jor- dan Dinar, corresponding to JD 1 = US$3.1111, and Jordan avails itself of wider margins. On December 31, 1974, the Central Bank of Jordan's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$3.1847 and US$3.1646 per dinar, and those for sterling were £ stg. 1.3514 and £ stg. 1.3405 per dinar.1 The buying and selling rates quoted by the commercial banks for these and other currencies must be based on the spot rates quoted by the Central Bank. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of YIQ of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for imports, except imports of government departments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Re- lations Department of the Central Bank of Jordan, which also issues exchange permits; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to authorized banks the issu- ance of exchange permits for import payments, and, up to a permitted annual limit, for payments for educa- tional expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. An Import Committee com- prising representatives of the Ministries of National Economy and Finance and Customs and the Central Bank presents from time to time suggestions and rec- ommendations concerning changes in import policy to the Minister of National Economy. In addition, an Economic Security Committee is empowered to amend existing regulations or issue new ones concerning any aspect of Jordan's economic policies when this is con- sidered necessary to the national interest. Prescription of Currency Jordan has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. All settlements in respect of trade with Egypt must be made in pounds sterling through clear- ing accounts under a special bilateral payments ar- rangement with that country. Payments to other countries may be made in any currency. Proceeds from exports (except those of perishable vegetables to neighboring Arab countries) and invisi- bles must be collected, and surrendered where required, in any convertible currency through an authorized bank in Jordan or in Jordan dinars from a nonresident account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank, authorized banks may open nonresident accounts in domestic currency. These accounts must be fed with approved funds; the approval of the Central Bank is necessary for transfers from resident to nonresident accounts, but transfers between nonresident accounts are permitted freely. In addition, nonresidents, includ- ing Jordanians working abroad, may freely open inter- est-bearing foreign currency accounts with authorized banks; balances on these accounts may be withdrawn freely in convertible currency, while the interest rate is fixed in accordance with rates prevailing in interna- tional markets. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items2 from any source, some im- ports from Romania, and all imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. All other imports, unless cov- ered by an agreement between Jordan and the export- ing country (i.e., agricultural products from neighboring countries), require import licenses if their c.& f. value is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the Ministry of National Economy, except for cer- tain items3 which are subject to scrutiny by the Minis- ter of National Economy (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an industrial firm) or scrutiny by the competent minis- try. Importers of tea and certain other goods must obtain a specified minimum proportion of their require- ments from Indian sources. Imports shipped by sea should, in principle, enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet this requirement are subject to a penalty of 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value (7 per cent for industrial raw materials and Brazilian coffee; foodstuffs, pharmaceuti- cals, and a few other items are exempt). The Council of Ministers may grant exemptions from these rules on a case-by-case basis upon special recommendation by the Ministries of National Economy and Transport. Bank guarantees in favor of the Ministry of Finance and Customs are required on most imports shipped through ports other than Aqaba, to ensure their importation into Jordan. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange permit which is granted automatically when an import license has been obtained; the importer holding an exchange permit may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. A fee of YIO of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions. The use of suppliers' credit is subject to prior Central Bank approval, which nor- 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN mally is given for essential imports only. Most im- ported commodities are subject to an import du ty of 4 per cent of the c.& f. value, payable on the issue of the import license. Payments for Invisibles Remittances by postal order do not require exchange control approval, provided that they do not exceed JD 10 a person a mon th. W i th th is exception, all pay- ments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approva l. Paymen ts for the fo l low ing types of invisibles are generally permitted up to certain limits: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign na t iona ls who in tend to re tu rn to the ir own countries; remittances to refugee dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian na t iona ls abroad; expenses of Jordanian residents trav- eling abroad; expenses for education; expenses for med- ical t rea tmen t; business expenses abroad; and insurance paymen ts in accordance w i th special regulations.4 The exchange allowance for travel to Arab countries (except Lebanon and the Syrian Arab Republic), Cy- prus, and Turkey is the equivalent of JD 100 a person a trip. The allowance for travel to other countries is the equivalent of JD 16 a person a day for business travel and JD 12 a person a day for other travel (half of these amoun ts for children under 15). These allowances are granted for trips of up to 30 days; each person may annua l ly make three business trips and two tourist trips to such other countries. For fam i ly suppor t, an annual allowance of between JD 600 and JD 1,200 for each donor is permitted; however, remittances by postal or- der may be made at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a mon th to any one person resident abroad and are not subject to the ceiling of JD 600-1,200. The policy in respect of payments for invisibles is, in general, liberal and non- discriminatory. In practice, the Central Bank does not restrict remittances of income accruing to nonresidents or of savings of foreign nationals re turn ing to their own coun try. In addition to any travel allocation, residents travel- ing abroad may take out up to JD 300 in any combina- tion of Jordanian and foreign notes and coins. Furthermore, all travelers may take out checks, travel- ers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance with exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared upon en- try. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Ex- port proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be collected and the foreign exchange surrendered w i th in six mon ths of shipment. Exempt are the proceeds from perishable vegetables and f ru i ts. 282 Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank or, if banknotes are received, to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in any amount in Jordanian and foreign notes and coins.5 Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an autho- rized bank any foreign currency at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capi- tal require approval and are not normally allowed ex- cept under special conditions. Current income resulting from nonresident investments in Jordan may be trans- ferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Inves tmen t, which took effect on October 16, 1972, prof i ts f rom approved foreign investments may be re- m i t ted, w i thout l im i ta t ion, in the currency of the origi- nal investment or in any other convertible currency approved by the Central Bank. Af ter two years, repatri- ation of the capital is permitted in three equal annual ins ta l lmen ts in the same foreign currency in which the original inves tment was made or in any other convert- ible currency approved by the Central Bank. The In- vestment Committee may approve more liberal provisions, and exchange permits are granted accord- ing ly. Gold The Central Bank has issued four gold coins under the Gold and Silver Coins Regulation No. 61 of 1968; these coins, although legal tender, do not circulate and are available only to nonresidents and domestic numis- matists. Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for num isma t ic or investment purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not, in principle, allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry are issued by the M in is try of National Economy on the recommendation of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require a license from the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1974 January 1. All impor ts of foods tu f fs were exempted from the Aqaba surcharge. February 21. Paper and all raw materials used in the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution paper industry were exempted from the Aqaba sur- charge. March 4. Authorized banks were permitted to pur- chase from, or sell to, the public foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of JD 300 a person. They were also permitted to arbitrage their foreign banknotes abroad, provided that equivalent amounts in banknotes ap- proved by the Central Bank were imported. April 1. An export tax of JD 6 a ton was imposed on phosphates. June 9. The amount in Jordanian and foreign cur- rency notes that resident and nonresident travelers could take out was increased from JD 100 to JD 300. For resident travelers, that amount was in addition to their foreign exchange allowance. June 20. The Central Bank delegated to authorized banks the issuance of exchange permits for payments for imports, and, up to a specified annual limit, for payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad and for various other purposes. August 13. The surrender period for export proceeds was extended from three to six months. JORDAN NOTES 1 In addition to U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, the Cen- tral Bank maintains official quotations for deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, and Swiss francs. It also quotes banknote rates for U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and certain other currencies. 2 These include carbonic acid; arak; alcohol; nonalcoholic beverages; diesel-engined cars, trucks, and buses; and military uniforms. Certain of these commodities may be imported, however, from Arab Common Market countries and from countries with which trade agreements are in force. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other agricultural commodities are prohibited in good crop years. 3 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, marga- rine, and other vegetable fats; tomato juice; saccharin; Dul- cin; pectin; petroleum products (except aviation fuel); detergents; superphosphates; cement; tanned leather; amuse- ment machines; blankets; woolen rugs; dry batteries; shaving lotion; and toothpaste. 4 All insurance must be taken out in Jordan, but exchange is granted for premiums in respect of insurance contracts concluded prior to May 1965. 5 No approval is given for the crediting of such Jordanian currency to a nonresident account or for the remittance abroad of the equivalent in foreign currency. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Kenya Shilling. A central rate of K Sh 7.14286 = US$1 has been established, and Kenya avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Kenya deals with the Government and with authorized banks in Tanza- nia shillings and Uganda shillings against Kenya shil- lings at par; the authorized banks also deal with the public in these currencies at par.1 In transactions with authorized banks, the Central Bank of Kenya stands ready to issue Kenya shillings in exchange for U.S. dollars and to supply U.S. dollars in exchange for Ke- nya shillings; its buying and selling rates are K Sh 7.1384 and K Sh 7.1450 per US$1. The Central Bank deals with the Government and commercial banks, on the basis of the daily closing rates in New York, in deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs, and, at corresponding rates, in Burundi francs and Zambian kwacha. The Central Bank does not deal in other foreign currencies,2 except occasionally on behalf of the Government. The Central Bank deals up to six months forward in sterling and U.S. dollars with commercial banks, to cover their contracts with export- ers and importers; commercial banks may cover their forward exchange contracts in other foreign currencies against U.S. dollars or pounds sterling in outside mar- kets. Applications for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports are subject to a charge of 1 per cent of the amount of the application. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning has delegated the administration of exchange control to the Central Bank of Kenya. Authority for approving pay- ments for imports with an invoiced value of less than K Sh 2,000, many payments in respect of current invis- ibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda is delegated to the autho- rized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. The responsibility for issuing im- port and export licenses rests with the Director, to whom applications must be submitted by the importer and exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for foreign ex- change allocation permits for imports also must be submitted to the Director of Trade and Supplies, who forwards these to the Central Bank; applications are screened by the Foreign Exchange Allocation Commit- tee, composed of representatives of the Central Bank, the Treasury, and the Director of Trade and Supplies. 284 Orders for imports of goods on open general license must be preregistered with the Central Bank before shipment. The government-owned Kenya National Trading Corporation, Ltd., has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities and the export of cer- tain agricultural commodities is controlled by State Marketing Boards. Together with Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is part of the East African currency area. Payments from Ke- nya to Tanzania and Uganda are free of restrictions, but the export or import of Kenya banknotes is prohib- ited. Prescription of Currency Kenya has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements with Tanzania and Uganda normally are effected in East African currency.3 Pay- ments to residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda (except Rhodesia and South Africa) may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of an External Account in Kenya or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. Receipts from countries other than Tanzania, Uganda, and Rhodesia may be ob- tained in Kenya shillings from an External Account in Kenya or in any marketable foreign currency. All pay- ments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Remit- tances to South Africa also are prohibited, with the exception of those of pensions payable by the Govern- ment of Kenya or by the East African Community organizations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Kenya shillings held by residents of countries other than Tanzania, Uganda, or Rhodesia with authorized banks in Kenya are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Kenya, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any currency (other than East African or Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonresidents to au- thorized dealers. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents and nonresidents. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed procedures, balances on Blocked Accounts (other than those in the beneficial ownership of residents of South Africa or Rhodesia) may be used for approved domestic expenditures and for the purchase in Kenya of specified bonds issued by the Kenyan Government or by local authorities and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution officially quoted in Kenya;4 the redemption proceeds of these securities, which must have a life of five years at the time of acquisition, are transferable, and interest is freely transferable to nonresidents as and when it ac- crues. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; imports of certain other goods are not being licensed. All imports from metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With certain exceptions, imports from Tanzania and Uganda are unrestricted, but many goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Ugandan origin. Many goods may be freely imported from other sources under open general license, but others require a specific license. Certain items are imported only by the Kenya Na- tional Trading Corporation, Ltd. These include sugar, salt, rice, edible oils, fertilizers, blankets, and cotton piece goods. In addition to the open general import license, there are four commodity schedules for imports. With minor exceptions, all private sector imports of commodities in Schedules I, II, III, and IV from countries other than Tanzania and Uganda require a foreign exchange allo- cation license issued by the Central Bank; applications must be submitted before firm orders are placed. Im- ports of goods on open general license do not require an exchange allocation license but must be preregis- tered with the Central Bank before firm orders are placed. All goods in the first three schedules require a spe- cific import license from the Director of Trade and Supplies. Once the specific import license has been ob- tained, foreign exchange is granted freely for goods in Schedule I and on the basis of quotas reflecting past imports for goods in Schedule II. No foreign exchange is granted for Schedule III items. For items in Schedule IV, a specific import license is not required but foreign exchange is allocated on a quota basis. When an exchange allocation license has been ob- tained from the Central Bank or when such a license is not required, authorized banks are permitted to pro- vide exchange automatically, but not normally prior to customs entry. Prior exchange control approval must be obtained for imports of capital goods on deferred payment terms, and for imports of machinery and equipment when the value is required to be regarded as a contribution toward capital or to be accounted for on a loan basis. Most imports with a pro forma invoice value in ex- cess of K Sh 20,000 are also subject to preshipment inspection as to quality, quantity, and price by the General Superintendence Company acting for the Cen- tral Bank of Kenya. A "Clean Report of Findings" must be obtained before shipment, and authorized banks in Kenya may not issue shipping guarantees for KENYA the clearance of imports until this "Clean Report" has been received. The buying and confirming commission with respect to imports into Kenya may not exceed 3 per cent of the value of the import. The interest rate on suppliers' credit normally is limited to 11 per cent per annum. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments without limitation or up to estab- lished limits; amounts above these limits as well as other current payments may be approved administra- tively, and most current payments are in fact unre- stricted. Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a full scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Ke- nya as employed persons (as well as certain categories of the self-employed, such as doctors and dentists) for not more than four years may remit abroad as savings up to 33V3 per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 3,000 a month; in addition, they may remit funds to cover maintenance, education expenses, etc., provided that their total remittances including sav- ings do not exceed 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. Expatriates who have stayed for over four years in the Scheduled Territories5 may continue to effect remit- tances from salaries as above, but those who avail themselves of the facilities for remittance of savings from salaries are not entitled to exchange facilities upon emigration. Remittances to South Africa, other than those of certain pensions, are prohibited. Nonresident individual property owners may remit up to K Sh 20,000 of net rental income in each 12-month period. Any excess of net rent over the per- mitted transfer is placed in a Blocked Account and may be invested in approved securities with at least five years to maturity, after which period the redemption proceeds may be remitted to the nonresident benefi- ciary. Real estate companies deriving income solely from rent are permitted to transfer annually up to 10 per cent of the book value of their properties as at September 25, 1970, or an amount not exceeding 10 per cent of issued capital. Where income is derived from rent as well as other sources, the exchange control au- thorities must approve the remittance of such incomes. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes.6 Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic travel allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA The basic allowance is not available for travel to Rho- desia or South Africa. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Residents of Kenya traveling abroad on international flights and holding return tick- ets may carry up to K Sh 100 with them for local expenses on return, but otherwise the export of Kenya banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export transactions must be registered with the Cen- tral Bank. Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricul- tural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for con- sumption in Kenya. Exports of tea, certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destinations other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without li- censes. Exports of coffee are made through the interme- diary of the Coffee Marketing Board. All exports to metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be col- lected within six months of exportation7 and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for conversion into Ke- nya shillings.8 Exports of manufactured goods to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are eligible for special incentives. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes. The import of domestic banknotes is prohibited, with the exception that resi- dents returning to Kenya may bring in up to K Sh 100 previously taken out by themselves. The import of East African shilling notes also is prohibited. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are restricted. Transfers to Rhodesia or South Africa are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for remittance of savings from salaries, persons leaving Kenya perma- nently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of K Sh 50,000 for each family unit if they take up resi- dence in a country outside the Scheduled Territories; they may additionally every 12 months thereafter, dur- ing a period of five years, apply for the release of K Sh 20,000 from their Blocked Accounts. All remain- ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved securities, and re- demption proceeds become transferable, provided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. If an emigrating or repatriat- ing person's assets in Kenya are valued at K Sh 1 mil- 286 lion or more, the total assets must be liquidated before any exchange control approvals are sought and the proceeds must be invested in prescribed securities. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East African Licensing Or- dinance. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies requires exchange control approval and is restricted. The same is true of borrowing by residents from nonresidents. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all im- ports and exports of securities require approval. Ap- proval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to a Blocked Account. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not nor- mally permitted. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash gift to a country other than Tanzania or Uganda more than K Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Kenya for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require exchange control approval. The import of the following from all sources other than Tanzania and Uganda, and from Tanzania and Uganda when origi- nating in other countries, is subject to individual licens- ing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Imports of gold jewelry require specific import licenses as Schedule III items and no foreign exchange is allocated for them; import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restric- tively, while imports of gold coins are not being li- censed. Changes during 1974 January 11. The Local Manufacturers (Export Com- pensation) Act, 1974 was gazetted. It provided for ex- port subsidies on exports of selected manufactures to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda. The rate of compensation payment was 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of goods declared for payment or of the payment in respect of such exports received in foreign currency (other than Tanzania or Uganda currency) by an autho- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rized dealer, whichever was less. Assent was given on June 12, 1974 and the Act came into operation on the same day. January 14. The central rate was changed from K Sh 6.90000 = US$1 to K Sh 7.14286 = US$1, equivalent as previously to 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Kenya shilling and corresponding to K Sh 8.61675 = SDR 1. Kenya continued to avail itself of wider margins. The relationship to the Tanzania shilling and the Uganda shilling remained unchanged. New buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were set at K Sh 7.1407 and K Sh 7.1471, respectively, per US$1. February 4. Exports of maize were prohibited. February 4. Exchange Control Circular No. 2 re- quired persons arriving in Kenya by air or sea, with the exception of residents returning from Uganda or Tan- zania, to declare all foreign currency in their possession; on departure, they could only'reconvert Kenya shil- lings upon showing that they were obtained from docu- mented conversion of the registered foreign currency. February 8. The Central Bank henceforth advised authorized dealers daily of the rates applicable to its transactions with authorized dealers in Burundi francs, deutsche mark, commercial and financial French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and Zambian kwa- cha. (Previously, the Central Bank did not normally deal in currencies other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars.) Banks could make their own quotations to customers, but the spread between buy- ing and selling rates for telegraphic transfers was not allowed to exceed 7/8 per cent; they were encouraged to deal within the spread determined by the quoted mar- gins but could not exceed them. Circular No. 29 /1971 was canceled. March 18. Exports of meat and cereals were prohib- ited. April 18. Circular No. 3/1974 revised Exchange Con- trol Notices Nos. 20 and 28 concerning securities and emigration treatment, respectively. Emigrants with to- tal assets exceeding in value K Sh 1 million were now required to liquidate all their assets before applying for emigration treatment, and prior to any release these funds had to be held in the form of prescribed securi- ties. The new notice on securities specified that blocked funds could not be invested in government securities or otherwise utilized without specific exchange control ap- proval and that companies directly or indirectly con- trolled by nonresidents required exchange control approval to acquire shares of Kenyan companies in ways other than through the Nairobi stock exchange. June 5. Import controls were tightened by Circular No. 4/1974. The four import lists were altered as fol- lows: Schedule I, containing items subject to specific import licensing but for which foreign exchange is freely granted once a license has been issued, was re- duced in coverage; Schedule II, containing items sub- ject to specific licensing and for which foreign exchange is provided on a quota basis, was increased in coverage; KENYA Schedule III, containing items prohibited from import, was increased in coverage; and Schedule IV, containing items not subject to specific import licensing but for which exchange is provided on a quota basis, was in- creased in coverage (previously it consisted of only one item—passenger automobiles). Items previously under open general license which were shifted to Schedule IV included tobacco, jute, woolen fabrics, certain cotton fabrics, agricultural tractors, buses, trucks, and news- papers and periodicals. June 12. Import duties on certain foodstuffs were reduced. The sales tax on radios, tape recorders, pas- senger automobiles, refrigerators and other domestic appliances, alcoholic beverages, and certain other con- sumer goods was increased from 10 per cent to 15 per cent. Withholding tax on dividends payable to nonresi- dents was raised from 12 per cent to 15 per cent. June 12. Nonresident travelers in Kenya were re- quired to pay hotel bills and domestic tour bills with foreign exchange. June 12. Foreign-controlled companies henceforth normally were to restrict their local borrowing to 20 per cent of their issued capital. June 19. Circular No. 6 /1974 raised the maximum allowable interest rate on foreign loans (including sup- pliers' credit) from 9 per cent to 11 per cent per annum. Commission charges payable to foreign suppliers (in- cluding buying and confirming commission on im- ported goods) continued to be limited to 3 per cent of the value of the goods. July 26. Circular No. 9/1974 established a charge, to be collected by the Central Bank with effect from Au- gust 1, of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. amount of each applica- tion for foreign exchange allocation licenses for imports. Exempt were imports not involving the provi- sion of foreign exchange from Kenya at any time. September 17. Circular No. 10/1974 provided that approval for the remittance of interim dividends or any profits by nonresident-controlled firms would no longer be given prior to the completion of the annual audit of the company concerned. November 4. Imports of paper other than newsprint, tissue, and coated paper were prohibited. November 6. Circular No. 11/1974 revoked the 11 per cent ceiling on the interest rate on foreign borrow- ing; applications for exchange control approval for for- eign borrowing would be considered on their merits, provided that the rate of interest to be charged was in line with published rates in the appropriate market. However, the maximum interest rate of 11 per cent per annum on bills received for collection and the maxi- mum commission charge of 3 per cent of the value of imported goods payable to nonresident agents were retained. Circular No. 6/1974 was cancelled. November 7. The Central Bank withdrew the conces- sion under which emigrants who remitted savings had been permitted to export, in addition to the maximum emigration allowance set out in Circular 1 /1969, auto- mobiles or proceeds from the sale of automobiles which 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA had been in their possession for a reasonable period. November 14. The general permissions in paragraphs 2(4) and 2(5) of Circular No. 2 9 / 73 allowing commer- cial banks to lend to foreign-controlled companies up to specified limits, were withdrawn by Circular No. 12/1974, except for companies wholly or mainly oper- ating in agricultural production, manufacturing, export business, or tourism. The Central Bank would review the facilities of affected companies already enjoying local borrowing facilities. The new instructions did not affect companies whose proportion of equity held di- rectly or indirectly in the beneficial ownership of non- residents did not exceed 15 per cent. November 14. The Central Bank instructed foreign- owned companies not to remit interim or final divi- dends to nonresident shareholders until the companies had liquidated their local borrowings. There was no intention, however, to limit remittances of prof i ts and dividends as such. December 9. Circular No. 16/1974 consolidated in Notice No. 19 the current instructions on borrowing by nonresident-controlled companies. Circulars Nos. 29 /1973 and 12/1974 were canceled. All exchange con- trol authorities granted before July 10, 1974 for bor- rowing in excess of the limits set out in paragraph 2 of the new Notice No. 19 were now obsolete or would become obsolete on or before January 10, 1975. Ap- provals dated July 10, 1974 or later for companies wholly or mainly operating in agricultural production, manufac tur ing, export business, and tourism were valid un t il the dates stated therein. Credit facilities granted w i th in the limits of paragraph 2 of the previous Notice No. 19 could be continued if the borrowers were in one of these four classes. Facilities granted to other nonresi- dent-controlled companies had to be reviewed upon expiration or by December 31, 1974, whichever was earlier. Applications for approval or renewal of facili- ties not within the authority delegated by the new No- tice No. 19 were to be accompanied by a specific program for reduction and eventual elimination of local borrowing. December 11. With effect from January 1, 1975, Cir- cular No. 15 /1974 reduced the period w i th in which payments for exports have to be obtained from six mon ths to three mon ths af ter shipment. NOTES 1 All dealings in Tanzania and Uganda banknotes are sus- pended. 2 All currencies other than the Kenya shilling, the Tanza- nia sh i l l ing, and the Uganda sh i l l ing are considered foreign currencies. 3 East Afr ican currency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanza- nia sh i l l ings, and Uganda shillings. 4 Such securities must be payable in East African currency and they must not be redeemable earlier than f ive years f rom the date of acqu is i t ion. 5 Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Sched- uled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 6 Banks are not permitted, w i thout specific approval, to sell exchange in excess of K Sh 200 a day (subject to a max imum of K Sh 3,000 for a stay of not less than 15 days) for travel to Bu rund i, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Soma- lia, Sudan, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Zaire, and Zambia. 7 Reduced to three mon ths a f ter exportation w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1975. 8 There are m inor exemptions w i th respect to Ethiopian dollars and Somali sh i l l ings for persons resident in specified border areas. 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Khmer Repub- lic, the Kiel, has been agreed with the Fund. There are three exchange markets, the "new exchange market," the "CIP exchange market," and the free market. The selling rates for the U.S. dollar in these markets on December 31, 1974 were KR 1,650-1,680 (a range of rates for different importers); KR 1,320 (KR 1,565 for imports from "Code 941 countries");1 and KR 1,650-1,670, respectively, per US$1. The principal transactions eligible for each market are as follows. In principle, all imports not on a negative list are settled in the "new exchange market" unless they may be paid for in the "CIP exchange market." Imports eligible for settlement in the latter market are goods covered by the U.S. Commodity Import Program and procured di- rectly in the United States; when the same goods are procured in "Code 941 countries," they are settled in the same market but at a different exchange rate. Ex- port proceeds and receipts from tourism, other invisi- bles, and inward capital transfers must be sold in the free market. In principle, all financial transactions must take place in the free market. Outward payments chan- neled through the free market are mainly those relating to (1) the import of specified commodities (only com- modities eligible for the "new exchange market" may be paid for in the free market);2 (2) all noncommercial expenditures abroad of the Khmer Government; (3) student expenses and expenses of medical treatment abroad; and (4) services rendered by foreign sources. Subject to prior approval by the National Exchange Office, outward capital transfers may also be settled in the free market. Participation in the exchange markets is limited to authorized commercial banks which buy and sell for- eign exchange in transactions with the National Bank; they act on behalf of customers only and are not al- lowed to maintain foreign exchange balances for trade purposes, except as these may arise in connection with their normal operations. Foreign exchange transactions of the Government and its departments and agencies are subject to the same conditions as transactions of the private sector, but are generally channeled through the National Bank. The National Bank of Cambodia maintains official quotations for 13 currencies.3 These quotations all pro- vide for a spread of 0.4 per cent between the buying and selling rate expressed in riels. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office, an autonomous agency within the National Bank; this office is empowered to authorize all operations related to settlements with foreign countries, to foreign investments, and to nonresident accounts. The Ministry of Commerce is in charge of the administration of import and export controls. The Ex- change Support Fund, an independent unit within the National Bank, reimburses the latter for foreign ex- change sold for most general imports and for freight and insurance on imports provided under U.S. P.L. 480. Prescription of Currency Settlements with five countries with which the Khmer Republic has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those maintained for Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, and the U.S.S.R. are denominated in pounds sterling, and those for Bulgaria and Poland in U.S. dollars. Set- tlements with other countries take place in convertible currencies. Foreign investments must be made in a currency acceptable to the National Bank. Profits on and pro- ceeds from the liquidation of foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the in- vestment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be main- tained for nonresidents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Khmer nationals staying abroad temporarily but not recognized as non- residents, and foreigners staying in the Khmer Repub- lic but not recognized as residents, may maintain Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. There are separate regulations concerning nonresident accounts that may be used to finance transactions in the free trade area of Kompong-Som. Foreigners'Accounts in Riels may be opened, without permission, for foreigners residing outside the Khmer Republic. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale on the Phnom Penh exchange market of the currency (but not banknotes) of the coun- try of the account holder; (2) payments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) from the coun- try of the account holder; (3) earnings on investments in the Khmer Republic and receipts from repayments on Khmer stocks and bonds and on other investments made in the Khmer Republic after May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the ac- counts. These accounts may be freely debited for nor- mal expenses in the Khmer Republic and, provided that it is quoted on the Phnom Penh market, for pur- chases of the currency of the country of the account holder (except in the form of banknotes). Transfers 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC between Foreigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same country may be made freely. Capital Accounts may be opened without permission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be cred- ited with (1) proceeds from the sale in the Khmer Re- public of Khmer stocks and bonds; (2) proceeds from the sale in the Khmer Republic of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) contractual or advance repayments of Khmer stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or busi- nesses located in the Khmer Republic and in the pos- session of a nonresident since before January 1, 1955 or acquired by him at a later date either through inheri- tance or with the permission of the National Exchange Office; (5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to January 1, 1955, or after that date with the approval of the National Exchange Office; and (6) transfers from another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses of the account holder or his family up to KR 1,000 a person a day, and up to a maximum of KR 50,000 mon th ly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in the Khmer Re- public (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, etc.). Subject to authorization from the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for (1) purchases in the Khmer Republic of Khmer stocks and bonds; (2) sub- scriptions to, or increases in the capital of, a Khmer firm; (3) purchases through an authorized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in the Khmer Republic; (4) loans in riels to residents; (5) transfers to another capital account related to the country of the account holder; (6) living expenses in the Khmer Re- public of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (corporation, bank, etc.); and (7) gifts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious asso- ciations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon au- thorization. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in the Khmer Republic, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and (3) living expenses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder and his fam i ly. They may be freely credited with the proceeds from foreign currency sold on the Phnom Penh market and with interest on funds held in the account con- cerned. All other operations through these accounts are subject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts (1) to cover ex- penses abroad, such as those related to travel, missions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in the Khmer Republic by converting balances on these accounts in to riels on the Phnom Penh exchange market. 290 Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon authorization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom Penh market; (2) transfers from Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) wages, salaries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Khmer nationals employed by Khmer firms and temporarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in the Khmer Republic by account holders; (5) redeposits of previous withdrawals; and (6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for (1) living ex- penses in the Khmer Republic of the account holder or his family, (2) administrative expenses related to the account holder's property in the Khmer Republic, and (3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts require authorization. There are separate regulations for resident-held for- eign currency accounts. Imports and Import Payments The import of certain commodities is prohibited for reasons of health or security and that of certain other goods for protective reasons. In view of the availability of commercial aid resources, several important import commodities have been placed on an "exclusive list"; their importation is permitted only against commodity aid financing, unless a waiver is granted. The list in- cludes tobacco leaves, cotton fibers, certain vegetable oils, wheat flour, and cotton thread under the U.S. P.L. 480 program, and some foodstuffs, rubber and rubber products, petroleum, chemicals, timber and paper products, iron and steel, metals, cars and trucks, and U.S. equipment in general, under the U.S. CIP. For all other permissible imports, including those eligible for CIP financing that are not on the "exclusive list," cash foreign exchange resources may be provided under li- censes granted ad hoc; they are referred to as general imports. There are also a "restrictive list," comprising commodities for which foreign exchange is not nor- mally made available, and separate lists specifying the goods eligible for settlement in the "new exchange mar- ket" and the "CIP market," respectively. Specified imports may be made freely when no pur- chase of foreign exchange is involved (sans devises) and the goods are not intended for resale, and provided that the goods are eligible either for the "new exchange market" or the "CIP exchange market." All imports financed by foreign exchange purchased in the exchange market must be settled against irrevo- cable letters of credit opened by the commercial banks. Importers are required to submit their requests for pur- chases of foreign exchange to the commercial banks, accompanied by the payment of a deposit in riels; the deposit requirement is varied from time to time and is d ifferent for CIP imports and other imports. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Each importer is required to obtain an import busi- ness license. Importers are permitted to trade with for- eign countries only if they have assumed corporate status (societes anonymes). The equity capital of such corporations should be at least KR 5 million; 51 per cent of the equity should be held by Khmer nationals and one third of board membership should be Khmer. Upon completion of the import transaction, import- ers are required to submit proof that the foreign ex- change has actually been used to finance imports, and that the goods have arrived and have been cleared through customs with full payment of import duty and other levies. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange for freight and insurance for im- ports under U.S. P.L. 480 is normally eligible for fi- nancing by the CIP. All other payments for invisibles require individual authorization, and only those trans- actions explicitly mentioned in the exchange control regulations are permitted. In principle, the exchange allocations granted are those set out below, but at the end of 1974 several of these were inoperative. A foreigner working in the Khmer Republic and receiving a monthly salary exceeding KR 5,000 in Phnom Penh, or KR 3,500 in the provinces, may in principle transfer up to 30 per cent of his net monthly salary —after payment of taxes—plus 15 per cent of his monthly salary if a dependent wife stays abroad, plus an additional 10 per cent if dependent children, par- ents, or grandparents stay abroad. (The additional per- centage of transferable income is 2 per cent for each legitimate child or dependent parent or grandparent, with a maximum of 10 per cent of the net monthly income for each family.) Such transfers may not exceed the equivalent of KR 20,000 a worker a month. Trans- fer facilities are not granted for salaries and wages ex- empt from income tax. Overtime pay is considered transferable income only when it is received in payment for courses given in public educational institutions. Women of foreign nationality married to Khmer na- tionals and working in the private sector are not per- mitted to transfer savings from salaries or wages to their country of origin. Foreign landlords domiciled in the Khmer Republic may transfer up to 30 per cent of the taxable portion of their income from rent, provided that the rent ex- ceeds KR 5,000 for landlords living in Phnom Penh or KR 3,500 for landlords living in the provinces. Foreign landlords living abroad may transfer up to 20 per cent of the taxable portion of rent. Foreigners residing in the Khmer Republic, when leaving the country permanently, are permitted to transfer abroad, up to prescribed limits, savings out of their salaries earned in the Khmer Republic, provided that the savings have been regularly deposited with an authorized bank in the Khmer Republic. KHMER REPUBLIC The transfer of the full net profits from nonresident investments made prior to May 31, 1956 is authorized, subject to proof that the investment was made with foreign currency other than the former Indo-Chinese piastre; otherwise, the transfer of profits on pre-1956 investments is limited to 80 per cent and is permitted only if the investment is recognized as useful to the economic development of the Khmer Republic. Net profits that do not exceed 20 per cent of foreign investments made after May 31, 1956 may be trans- ferred annually. Khmer nationals studying abroad may receive monthly exchange allocations equivalent to up to US$108 for Asian countries and up to US$126 for any other country, in addition to installation, holiday, and clothing allowances. The allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel and business travel has been sus- pended. The export of Khmer currency is prohibited and for- eign tourists require special authorization to reconvert riels into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are classified into three groups: a prohibited list, a licensing list, and a free list. Prohibited exports comprise mainly goods whose exports have been banned for social and political reasons, while the pur- pose of the licensing list is to avoid shortages of supplies needed for domestic use. The exportation of rubber and precious and semiprecious stones is a state monopoly and is effected through SONEXIM. The expor- tation of rice also is a state monopoly. All other com- modities except gold may be freely exported, provided that the transactions are arranged through a commer- cial bank, which must issue an export certificate for each shipment and must surrender the export proceeds to the National Bank. A Committee on Export Price Quotations sets weekly minimum export prices. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Ap- proved hotels, airlines, and other organizations autho- rized to receive payment in foreign exchange are required to keep adequate records of such transactions and to surrender all receipts to the commercial banks at least once weekly. Foreign visitors are required to settle their hotel bills in foreign currency or provide evidence that local currency was acquired by selling foreign exchange to an authorized bank. The import of Khmer currency is prohibited. Capital All capital transfers require individual licenses. No transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is permitted. Foreigners who sell their property to Khmer nationals and leave the Khmer Republic permanently may transfer initially 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KHMER REPUBLIC up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remainder may be authorized for trans- fer annually, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repayment of loans originally granted in foreign currency may be considered transfer- able income. Since May 31, 1956, all foreign investments have been subject to authorization from the Ministry of Fi- nance, which requires that a certain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Khmer participation and that its employees should be Khmer nationals. Only investments for the creation of activi- ties recognized as useful to the economic development of the country and not involving monopoly or special privilege may be authorized. Proceeds from the liquida- tion of authorized investments made after May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not ex- ceeding 20 per cent of the total investment. Up to 10 per cent of the proceeds from the liquidation of invest- ment made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized for transfer every year. Foreign capital invested after May 31, 1956 is guar- anteed the same tax treatment that is applied to resi- dent investments; in addition, special incentives (partial exemption from duties and taxes on reinvested profits and on equipment goods or raw materials imported during the first year of operation) may be accorded to foreign investment considered as exceptionally useful to the Khmer economy. There is a guarantee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropriation, and for a just and equitable indemnity in the event of nationalization or expropriation of investments. Gold Residents may freely acquire, hold, and sell gold in the Khmer Republic. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities, SONEXIM, and authorized industrial us- ers are not allowed to hold or acquire abroad gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authoriza- tion by the National Bank; such authorization is not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and SONEXIM. Changes during 1974 January 3. The basic exchange rate in the "new ex- change market" was depreciated from KR 302 to KR 375 per US$1, selling, and the preferential ex- change rate for imports under the U.S. CIP from KR 257 to KR 302 per US$1. These rates were subse- quently modified on several occasions. March 28. The amount in riels that importers under the CIP had to deposit with SONEXIM at the time the import certificate was granted was increased from 10 per cent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, except for sugar and petroleum products. May 14. Restrictions were imposed on the import of a large number of commodities deemed nonessential, 292 following the shifting to the "new exchange market" of a substantial volume of imports previously financed exclusively with CIP aid funds. May 14. The amount per shipment up to which gen- eral imports could be made freely on a sans de vises basis was increased from US$1,000 to US$2,000. This ceiling was removed in November, when imports on this basis were limited to raw materials, capital equipment, and spare parts for industrial or agricultural use. May 24. Payments for a further group of commodi- ties previously financed at the preferential rate under the CIP were shifted to the "new exchange market"; among these items were sugar, coffee, tea, textiles, and fertilizers. Freight payments on U.S. P.L. 480 ship- ments also were shifted from the preferential rate to the "new exchange market." A commission was set up in the Ministry of Commerce to screen applications for CIP imports. August. The requirement of a supplementary deposit on imports was abolished. September 18. Notices Nos. 113, 114, and 115 of the National Exchange Office were signed and came into effect. A three-tier exchange market was established by the creation of a "free exchange market" (marche libre des changes), where the exchange rate would fluctuate according to supply and demand. It was announced that a list of imports to be financed in the free market would be published by the Ministry of Commerce. In principle, all financial transactions were to take place in the free market instead of the "new exchange mar- ket"; in addition, all sales of private foreign exchange by residents and nonresidents (including export pro- ceeds) had to be made in the free market. Access to this market for outward transfers would be restricted, nota- bly with respect to capital transfers. The regulations governing the operation of the "new exchange market" were modified, particularly with respect to the fixing of exchange rates and the validity of import certificates; the latter were now valid for three months following the date they were domiciled with the authorized interme- diaries, and the operation of the "new exchange mar- ket" was placed on an auction basis, subject to a floor rate (with the possibility that individual transactions took place at various exchange rates at and above this floor rate). A "CIP exchange market" was formally established to handle spot transactions in U.S. dollars for pay- ments in respect of imports eligible for financing under U.S. aid. Importers could have access to this market only through SONEXIM. As part of the exchange reform measures, import duties, export duties, turnover tax, and the "war effort tax" were removed from a wide range of commodities. September 19. The exchange rate in the "new ex- change market" was depreciated from KR 420 per US$1 to an initial floor rate of KR 1,100 per US$1; the exchange rate in the free market was initially set at KR 1,204 per US$1, and the CIP exchange rate was depreciated from KR 336 per US$1 to KR 915 per ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution US$1. The previous effective exchange rate of KR 55 per US$1 applicable to government transfers to Khmer diplomatic, consular, and religious missions abroad and to transfers by students for the purchase of text- books was abolished. September 19. Residents were freely permitted to ac- quire, hold, and sell gold and articles of gold in the Khmer Republic. The restrictions on the import and export of gold were maintained. September 19. Export licenses ceased to be required for most commodities other than rubber. The export prohibition on rice and rice products and on scrap iron was maintained. October 1. Procedures for the purchase of commodi- ties under the CIP were revised by Communique No. 125 of the Permanent Committee on Commercial Aid in the Ministry of Commerce. In addition, a list was issued of imports eligible for financing in the "CIP exchange market." November 2. The Ministry of Commerce issued a new and more extensive list of products the import of which KHMER REPUBLIC was prohibited when financed in the "new exchange market." The list replaced the one issued on May 13. December 5. Agreement was reached that the Ex- change Support Fund would be continued into 1975. December 13. A change was made in the quotation procedures for exchange rates. The minimum rate (cours minimum retenii) in the "new exchange market" was used as the buying rate in the free market. December. Further restrictions were placed on sales of official exchange for imports. All imports deemed nonessential were excluded from official financing and quotas were imposed on imports of essentials payable through the "new exchange market." NOTES 1 Certain developing countries in Africa and Asia. 2 The riel payment for imports under the U.S. P.L. 480 program is also settled at the free market rate. 3 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deut- sche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been estab- lished with the Fund. The exchange rate in the ex- change certificate market is maintained around W 484 per US$1. On December 31, 1974 the buy ing and sell- ing rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 483.40 and W 484.60, respectively, and the tele- graphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 483 and W 485, respectively. Exchange certificates valid for 30 days are issued by the foreign exchange banks against all foreign exchange earnings in prescribed currencies surrendered by resi- dents. All foreign exchange proceeds, however, may alternatively be exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certifi- cates may be changed in to equivalent foreign means of payment. There is a limited forward exchange market restricted to exporters covering their export earnings; the foreign exchange banks may in turn cover their forward transactions with exporters by engaging in such transactions abroad. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control. It carries out policy with respect to prescrip- tion of currency and method of settlement, foreign ex- change operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, exe- cutes the above func t ions in large part; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated au- thority to control payments related to invisibles. The foreign exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to engage in commercial international banking and in foreign ex- change dealings. The trade program for imports financed from Ko- rea's own foreign exchange resources (KFX) is pre- pared by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Imports financed by foreign loans are programmed sep- arately by the Economic Planning Board in consulta- tion with the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Import licenses are issued by the foreign exchange banks. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other countries are made in convertible currencies. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies.1 The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. 294 Nonresident Accounts Nonresident and Korean workers abroad may main- tain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign ex- change banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon depar- ture from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is re- quired for remittances from balances that have accrued from remuneration for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Ko- rea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at the prevailing exchange rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents are per- mitted to hold time deposit accounts in prescribed cur- rencies with the foreign exchange banks. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, as well as enter- prises in which foreign capital is invested, may maintain demand deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange banks. Companies registered to oper- ate in the Masan Free Export Zone also may maintain demand deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange bank within the zone. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating in the People's Republic of China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam and for certain imports from all other countries. Imports are divided into three categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (so-called KFX im- ports), those paid for with foreign loan funds, and those financed by Japanese reparations (PAC imports). KFX imports are classified as automatic approval, restricted, or prohibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are auto- matically approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or prohibited commodities. Automatic approval items (on December 31, 1974 these were 678 out of 1,312 basic items in the SITC classification) consist mainly of essential consumer goods not domestically produced and certain raw materials and capital goods. Restricted items (563) in a negative list are subject to individual licenses. Prohibited items (71) are mainly luxury goods, items prohibited for reasons of public health or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw materials for the production of exports are normally ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution approved automatically, irrespective of their classifica- tion. Import licenses are granted only to registered trad- ers; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a minimum value of US$300,000 of exports is required each year for ordinary exporters. The commercial terms of payment on which imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits are required for most categories of imports by the private sector; these are met, for KFX imports, by deposit of exchange certificates and/or local currency at the time of applying for import licenses (or, for raw materials for export production, when the letter of credit is opened).2 The exchange certificate deposits are, in effect, advance payments offset against the im- port settlement; the won equivalent of any amount of deposit in excess of the import settlement is repaid to the importer at the time of the release of the relative bill of lading. Imports with Japanese Property and Claims Funds (PAC imports) are subject to prior payments of part of the import settlement in exchange certificates. Advance deposits for KFX imports range between 5 per cent and 200 per cent according to the nature of the import and the commercial terms of payment (sight letter of credit, documents against acceptance (D/A), documents against payment (D/P), or bonded ware- house transaction (BWT) terms); however, there are certain exceptions. The customs tariff is a "flexible" tariff. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates adminis- tratively by up to 50 percentage points. The Govern- ment also has authority to impose import surcharges of up to 30 per cent on all dutiable imports, but by the end of 1974 had not invoked this authority. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual li- censes. Payments for invisibles connected with foreign trade transactions and for certain other items, such as banking charges, insurance premiums, communication fees, and periodicals are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel. In addition, exporters are authorized to use exchange earnings up to US$3,000 a month for the expenses of their overseas branches; the authorization is US$6,000 a month if exports to the country concerned exceed US$5 million and US$10,000 a month if exports to the country concerned exceed US$50 million. All residents departing for travel abroad may purchase foreign ex- change up to the equivalent of US$65 a day;3 they may purchase an additional US$100 for each trip for extra expenses. Students studying abroad may receive a monthly living allowance of up to US$500.4 Foreign and Korean currency notes may not be exported with- out special permission. Nonresident foreigners need not register foreign exchange in specified currencies that they bring into Korea and, when departing, they may reconvert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to KOREA US$200, subject to confirmation of the original sale of exchange (up to US$50 without such confirmation). Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to certain specified countries designated by the Government are prohibited, as are exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, platinum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries. Certain exports require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an automatic ap- proval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign ex- change must either be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank at its posted customer rate or be ex- changed into equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Exporters are not permitted to retain their export pro- ceeds as foreign currency demand or time deposits with foreign exchange banks. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived from invisibles must either be sold to a foreign exchange bank or be exchanged for equivalent exchange certificates. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, but the import of Korean currency by travelers is restricted. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital investment, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guaran- tee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. No limits are placed on the conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and div- idends, or on the repatriation of the original capital invested, but proposed remittances must be notified to the Economic Planning Board 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year. Gold Certain commemorative gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold in any form in Korea. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users; there have been no imports or exports since 1965. Domestically produced gold may be disposed of in the free market. The free market price at public gold auctions was about W 2,200 a gram at the end of 1974. Changes during 1974 January 1. The trade program for the first half of 1974 came into effect. Increased emphasis was placed on the timely procurement of needed raw materials. The Minister of Commerce and Industry could allow 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA the import of prohibited import items or prohibit the export of automatic approval import items as he deemed necessary. The breakdown of import items by category again was 683 automatic approval items, 556 restricted items, and 73 prohibited items. January 1. Imports of heavy trucks were suspended. January 4. Import duties on 24 items were reduced. January 14. Import duties on 45 items were reduced. Those on 17 luxury consumer items were increased. January 14. An amendment to the implementing de- cree issued under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law required firms with foreign capital participation to re- port their planned foreign remittances to the Economic Planning Board 90 days prior to the end of each fiscal year. January 17. The Ministry of Agriculture and For- estry prohibited exports of fertilizers during 1974. January 22. The Foreign Exchange Requirement Program for 1974 was announced. Unlike the 1973 program, which had emphasized advance repayment of foreign debts and relaxation of import restrictions, the new program aimed at maximizing foreign exchange receipts and minimizing current account payments. Its basic principles were (1) to balance the supply and demand for foreign exchange and strengthen the coun- try's external reserve position; (2) to increase the avail- ability of foreign currency loans to local importers; (3) to continue restrictions on the use of foreign exchange for such purposes as nonessential imports and nones- sential current invisibles; and (4) to operate the import guarantee deposit requirements (advance import de- posits) in a flexible manner. January 23. The Monetary Board raised the maxi- mum interest rate for banking institutions' export fi- nancing loans from 7 per cent to 9 per cent per annum and lowered the interest rate on their stockpiling loans for imports of raw materials from 10 per cent to 9 per cent per annum. The Board also reduced the discount rate on Bank of Korea loans for imports of raw materi- als for stockpiling from 6Y2 per cent to 3V2 per cent per annum. January 24. Many of the advance import deposit requirements were modified. The rates of deposit were lowered for raw materials for export processing and for some other items. January 31. The Bank of Korea introduced a floating interest rate system under which interest rates for all foreign currency loans granted by Korean banking in- stitutions would fluctuate in accordance with the aver- age six-month Euro-dollar interest rate during the preceding month, but not beyond a maximum (12 per cent) set by the Monetary Board. Previously, a fixed interest rate of 9Y2 per cent was applied. February 1. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry abolished the contribution of 1 per cent of their pro- ceeds that had been required from exporters to raise funds needed for the Korea Export-Import Bank. The corresponding contribution required from importers 296 was reduced from 1 per cent to 0.5 per cent of the value of imports. February 5. The Economic Planning Board an- nounced new criteria for the authorization of foreign investment in Korea. February 5. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry shifted 16 import items (including wood pulp, certain textile machinery, and desk calculators) from the auto- matic approval list to the restricted list; one item (mag- nesium carbonate) was shifted in the reverse direction. February 7. The prescribed minimum foreign partici- pation in new foreign investments in Korea was in- creased from US$50,000 to US$200,000 for all industries (US$100,000 for the electronics industry). February 16. The Ministry of Finance issued a list of 320 items that could be imported duty free in 1974 for use in specified industries, retroactive to January 14. March 3. Teak logs for domestic use were shifted from the automatic approval list to the restricted im- port list. March 4. The number of imported raw materials eligible for stockpile financing was increased from 26 to 35. The principles for such financing were revised, the maturity being generally reduced from six months to three months. For some of the eligible raw materials, stockpile financing facilities were extended to the end of 1974, while for all others they were to expire on April 30. March 4. The advance import deposit requirements were reduced or suspended for certain essential raw materials. March 13. Import duties on 37 items were reduced. March 18. Kaolin, lead ore, and zinc ore were shifted from the automatic approval list to the restricted im- port list. April 19. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced that import licenses for 32 items previously requiring its recommendation could be issued by for- eign exchange banks without this recommendation, as automatic approval items, provided that importers were end-users and that all other requirements set forth in the semiannual trade program were met. April 20. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry shifted 13 items from the automatic approval list to the restricted import list; 10 items were shifted in the oppo- site direction. April 20. The temporary import duty on small pas- senger cars was increased from 150 per cent to 250 per cent. May 1. Advance deposit rates for 21 raw materials were reduced to 20 per cent when imported on a de- ferred payments basis. May 8. The export ban on cotton and acrylic yarn and on polyester cotton fabrics was lifted. May 23. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry shifted five types of textile fibers from the automatic approval list to the restricted import list. The definition of seven other textile items that remained on the auto- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution matic approval list was revised in order to ensure ade- quate protection to local products. May 24. The export ban on six PVC products was lifted. May 24. Imports of logs for export processing were exempted from advance deposit requirements for the remainder of the year. May 28. The Bank of Korea increased the maximum financing period for the stockpiling of imported raw materials from three to six months. The application of this facility was further modified on June 24. May 31. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry published the trade program for the second half of 1974. The prior approval requirement for imports from countries in a strong creditor position vis-a-vis Korea would be removed. On the export side, eight items were moved from the automatic approval to the restricted category. On the import side, two items were shifted from the restricted to the automatic approval list, seven items from the prohibited to the restricted list, and eight items from the automatic approval to the re- stricted list. June 5. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced that authorization to operate in the Masan Free Export Zone would no longer be restricted to export-oriented firms, but could also be granted to in- dustrial firms deemed essential to the development of the economy. June 15. The Bank of Korea made available W 7 billion in inventory financing for textile producers. June 18. Import duties on 45 items were reduced. June 24. A Foreign Investment Review Committee was attached to the Economic Planning Board to re- view and approve foreign investment projects of US$1 million or less. Projects of more than US$1 million remained the responsibility of the Foreign Capital In- ducement Deliberation Committee. For the manufac- ture of electronic products and machinery, foreign participation would, with certain exceptions, be al- lowed only on a f i f ty - f i f ty joint venture basis. July 1. The Bank of Korea's rules for the rediscount- ing of export usance bills were made more flexible. July 23. Branches of foreign banks operating in Ko- rea were authorized to use a larger portion of local won generated under swap arrangements in extending loans to local firms. July 30. With effect from August 1, the Ministry of Finance lowered the redeposit ratio for guarantee de- posits against foreign exchange transactions from 85 per cent to 70 per cent. August 29. The Bank of Korea released equipment funds for exporting industries for the period to Decem- ber 31, up to a ceiling of W 20 billion. August 29. The Bank of Korea increased to nine months the maximum term of loans for the stockpiling of major imported raw materials for domestic use. August 30. The Bank of Korea released additional loan funds to the machinery industries, up to a ceiling of W 10 billion. KOREA August 31. The Monetary Board increased the maxi- mum permitted interest rates on foreign currency loans and foreign currency deposits of banking institutions from 12 per cent and 11 per cent to 15V2 per cent and 15 per cent per annum, respectively, with effect from September 1. September 19. Resident companies were allowed to undertake certain hedging operations on commodity futures markets abroad. September 26. The Bank of Korea provided inven- tory financing for the period to December 31 to certain textile producers, up to a ceiling of W 10 billion. September 26. The Ministry of Agriculture and Fish- eries lifted the import restrictions on Australian cattle. October 24. The tariff reductions due to expire at the end of 1974 were extended to June 30, 1975. October 25. The minimum requirement to qualify as a "Class A" traveler (for purposes of the allocation of business travel exchange) was raised from US$5 million to US$10 million of annual foreign exchange earnings. October 25. The Ministry of Finance announced cer- tain measures to centralize and conserve the national foreign exchange resources. The measures came into effect on October 26. Exporters' foreign currency de- mand deposits had to be closed, and the balances were to be sold immediately to the Bank of Korea. The foreign currency time deposits of both exporters and importers also had to be closed, and the balances were to be sold to the Bank of Korea on maturity. The validity period of foreign exchange certificates was shortened from 45 days to 30 days, and the issuing of such certificates for local won was prohibited. Foreign funds refinanced by foreign exchange banks could ei- ther be held on deposit with banks abroad or be sold to the Bank of Korea on a swap basis, with the right of repurchase. Other measures to conserve foreign ex- change would also be taken. October 26. The Ministry of Finance announced im- port duty reductions on 40 items of machinery and parts for the manufacture of industrial goods. October 30. The Bank of Korea allowed an extended export financing term of up to 180 days for exports of 8 additional items (including footwear, canned food- stuffs, pottery, tiles, electronic products, and leather goods), bringing the number of eligible items up to 21. November 12. The Ministry of Finance increased the exchange allowance for the operating expenses of over- seas branches of Korean firms. November 12. With immediate effect, the Monetary Board increased the export financing rate from W 350 to W 380 per U.S. dollar. November 12. The Ministry of Finance reduced the advance deposit requirement on imports of raw materi- als (when settled under sight letters of credit) from 10 per cent to 5 per cent. November 12. The Monetary Board introduced a preferential interest rate of 12 per cent per annum for export financing loans granted by banking institutions and having a maturity of 135 to 180 days; the normal 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA rate of 15V2 per cent remained applicable to loans with a maturity of over 180 days. November 28. Import duties on 35 items were re- duced. November 30. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try announced the trade program for the first half of 1975, to take effect on January 1, 1975. It provided for tighter import restrictions on most goods other than such basic commodities as crude petroleum, cereals, raw materials for export processing, and essential capi- tal goods, but there would be some liberalization of items whose domestic counterparts could compete with foreign goods. Advance deposits for restricted items would be increased. On the import side, 11 items previ- ously banned would be shifted from the restricted or prohibited lists to the automatic approval category, while 21 items were to be shifted in the opposite direc- tion and 15 items ceased to require the recommenda- tion of the competent ministers. As a result, the number of items on the automatic approval list went up from 665 to 678, that of restricted items went down from 574 to 563, and prohibited items were reduced from 73 to 71. On the export side, the number of prohibited items was unchanged at 23, the number of restricted items was increased from 255 to 263, and the number of automatic approval items was reduced from 1,034 to 1,026. (These provisions came into effect immediately.) The import ceilings on natural rubber, beef tallow, wood pulp, raw sugar, molasses, cocoa beans, and cof- fee beans were continued, and import quotas for 24 items were maintained at 1974 levels. For certain items whose import is linked to export performance for speci- fied domestically produced items, the ratio of permitted imports to export performance was lowered. December 5. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try lifted the export ban on cement and on iron rein- forcing bars. December 6. The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisher- ies shifted seven food items from the automatic ap- proval list to the restricted import list. December 7. The amount of foreign exchange that could be held abroad by overseas branches of exporting firms was increased to US$500,000 for firms with an annual export performance exceeding US$100 million or net earnings exceeding US$50 million a year. December 7. The market exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from W 399 to W 484 per US$1. The "posted exchange rate" (the telegraphic transfer selling rate of commercial banks to customers) was modified correspondingly, from W 400 to W 485 per US$1. The "basic rate" (the exchange rate beyond which the market exchange rate is not permitted to appreciate) was changed from W 255 to W 480 per US$1. December 7. The Monetary Board increased the ex- port financing rate from W 380 to W 420 per US$1, and raised the interest rate on loans for imports of raw materials for export processing from 9 per cent to 12 per cent per annum. The Board also raised the discount rate on Bank of Korea loans for imports of raw materi- als from 3V2 per cent to 6V2 per cent per annum. December 11. The Ministry of Finance delegated to the Bank of Korea and the foreign exchange banks the power to approve various invisible payments which were formerly subject to the control of the Ministry. December 12. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus- try shifted carbon black and styrene butadiene from the automatic approval list to the restricted import list. NOTES 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 With effect from January 15, 1975, the advance deposit requirements had to be met in won, and exchange certificates could no longer be used for this purpose. 3 Increased to US$90 a day with effect from January 7, 1975. 4 Increased to US$700 w i th effect from January 7, 1975. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Ku- waiti Dinar, corresponding to KD 1 = US$3.37778, and Kuwait avails itself of wider margins. The Central Bank of Kuwait quotes daily buying and selling rates for sterling and U.S. dollars; on December 31, 1974, these were KD 0.67893 buying, and KD 0.67977 sell- ing, respectively, for sterling, and KD 0.28946 buying, and KD 0.28982 selling, respectively, for U.S. dollars. On April 5, 1963, Kuwait notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control and residents and non- residents may freely purchase and sell foreign curren- cies in Kuwait. Dealings in the currencies of Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa, however, are prohibited. General and individual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The limited control over exports is administered by the Cus- toms and Ports Administration of the Ministry of Fi- nance and Oil. Prescription of Currency Kuwait has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. There are no prescription of currency requirements. All settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open accounts in Kuwaiti dinars and foreign currencies. The use of such accounts is not restricted. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foodstuffs; licenses are issued freely, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered import- ers handling a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also valid for one year. All imports from Israel, including imports of Israeli manufacture and those that contain Israeli materials or are manufactured by companies financed by Israeli capital, and all im- ports from Portugual, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few items (mainly oxygen, certain steel pipes, alcoholic beverages, and used trucks and buses not using gasoline for fuel and over ten years old) are prohibited from all sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Ku- waiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaitis or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commer- cial imports normally are limited to registered import- ers. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. There are no limitations on the export of domestic or foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry and of certain other items (such as sugar, fats, rice, meat, eggs, fish, milk, cheese, butter, olive oil, fresh fruits, vegetables in any form, beans, lentils, chick-peas, jams, and cement) are prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. These items may be exported in limited quantities only, under a special license issued by the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian cur- rency, or South African rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, or South Af- rican rand. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodesian, or South African cur- rency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establish- ment and operation of industries in Kuwait; at least 51 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by Kuwaiti nationals. No restrictions are imposed on outward capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents to other countries except Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Imports of gold in any form are exempt from all customs duties and taxes. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants registered with the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try may im- port and export gold in any form, provided that such gold is not less than 18-karat fine; gold jewelry, how- ever, cannot be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwa i ti nationals may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at Changes during 1974 March 19. The embargo on exports of petroleum to the United States was lifted. April 9. V ir tua l ly all foods tuffs became exempt from customs du ty. July 10. The embargo on exports of petroleum to Denmark and the Netherlands was lifted. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Laotian Kip has been estab- lished with the Fund. The official exchange rate is K 600 = US$1. This rate applies to a few specified imports, to government payments covered by the for- eign exchange budget for official transactions, to a few types of private sector payments in respect of current invisibles, to the portion of export proceeds that must be surrendered (except for exports of tin, plywood, and furniture), and to any proceeds from invisibles or capi- tal voluntarily sold to the banking system. An ex- change rate of K 840 per US$1 results from the application of an exchange tax of 40 per cent to the official rate. This rate is applicable to certain imports. An exchange subsidy of K 220 per US$1, applicable to the official exchange rate, is granted on the proceeds from exports of coal, plywood, and furniture. All other exchange transactions take place in the unofficial free market (parallel market), access to which is unre- stricted; on December 31, 1974, the exchange rate in that market was about K 1,250 = US$1. The official exchange market is supplied mainly by the Foreign Exchange Operations Fund (FEOF), which sells foreign exchange to banks at K 605 = US$1. The commercial banks' selling rates are K 606 per US$ 1 for transactions eligible for official exchange and K 846 per US$1 for transactions subject to the 40 per cent exchange tax. Administration of Control The FEOF sells and buys foreign exchange only in transactions with the four commercial banks and the Development Bank of Laos, which act for the account of their customers. The National Bank of Laos (the central bank) conducts foreign exchange transactions only with exporters making the obligatory surrender of export proceeds, with Laotian public agencies selling their exchange receipts, and with foreign embassies and international organizations; receipts from these sources are used to meet the foreign exchange expenditures of the Laotian Government, including its contributions to the FEOF. The approval of the Exchange Control Commission (Commission d'Octroi des Devises Etran- geres or CODE) in the Ministry of Finance is required for purchases of exchange by the public at the rate of K 600 = US$1 and the rate of K 840 = US$1. Ex- change authorization for certain invisibles eligible for the K 600 rate is granted, however, by the National Exchange Office in the Ministry of Finance, acting on behalf of CODE. The Commission for the Coordina- tion of Foreign Finance is empowered to modify the lists of imports eligible for official exchange. The For- eign Trade Department of the Ministry of Economy issues export licenses and keeps an annual register of importers and exporters. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are im- posed on receipts or payments, but the National Bank provides and accepts only U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. providing for payments to be made through a clearing account maintained in French francs as the unit of account. Nonresident Accounts Both residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks in Laos. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be listed on the annual register of importers, for which a yearly registration fee has to be paid to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, ice cream, soft drinks, beer, detergents, oxygen, and plastic bags are prohib- ited, although they may be authorized when shortages arise. Financing at the official rate is normally permit- ted for certain commodities deemed essential; for some of these, the official rate is subject to a surcharge of K 240 per US$1. Letters of credit must be opened with the commercial banks for all import transactions set- tled at the official rate or the K 840 rate. Import transactions at the official rate are subject to exchange control approval. To apply for this approval, the importer is required to complete an exchange con- trol form obtainable from the banks, which are to for- ward the form to the CODE. The latter applies various criteria in deciding on exchange applications, including the applicant's compliance with prevailing require- ments regarding letters of credit, advance import de- posits, payment of import duties, and appropriate use of previous exchange purchases. Also, imports from Thailand are subject to price verification procedures. Import transactions for which no exchange is granted at the official rate may in practice be freely settled in the unofficial free market. On being notified that exchange approval will be granted the importer must within 7 days (14 days out- side Vientiane) make an advance import deposit in kip at the Treasury. The advance deposit requirement is 40 per cent of the c.i.f. value for imports from Thailand and 30 per cent for imports from all other sources; it is not applicable when imports are financed through the free market. The CODE requires evidence of payment of this deposit before forwarding the exchange authori- zation form to the commercial bank. Before the depos- 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS its can be returned by the Treasury, the importer must show proof, including customs evidence, that the goods have arrived in Laos, that they have been properly priced, and that the transaction has generally con- formed with the prevailing regulations on imports. Raw material impor ts by export industries and installa- tion equ ipment imported by firms benef i t ing from in- vestment incentives are exempt from advance import deposit requirements. Payments for Invisibles Payments eligible for the official rate are subject to exchange control approval by the CODE and most are restricted. Payments for all invisibles, however, may in practice be made freely th rough the free marke t. Appli- cants for off ic ial exchange for current invisibles are required to complete forms indicating their iden t i ty as well as the intended use of the desired foreign exchange. There is a foreign exchange budget detailing the Gov- ernmen t's paymen ts in foreign exchange dur ing the fis- cal year; for such paymen ts the National Bank of Laos makes exchange available at the official rate. There are no regulations l im i t ing the export of domestic or fo r- eign banknotes by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of wood in any form other than plywood or fu rn i tu re are prohibited. Exports of gold and silver also are prohibited, except when made by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities. All other exports are subject to authorization, but licenses normally are automatically issued. Exports of tin require the opening of a letter of credit. The fu ll proceeds from exports of tin and 80 per cent of proceeds from all other exports must be surrendered to the National Bank in U.S. dol- lars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the official rate; the remainder may be kept abroad or used freely. Exporters are required to deposit w i th the National Bank, prior to domiciling the export license with this Bank, the portion of their anticipated export proceeds that is subject to surrender; the National Exchange Office gives its visa only on export licenses that have been annotated by the National Bank to show that th is requirement has been complied with. Except for tin, an exporter may, however, be permitted to make a prior surrender of only 40 per cent of the export value, the remaining 40 per cent being due in a maximum of ten days from the settlement of the transaction; a commer- cial bank's guarantee may be accepted by the National Bank in lieu of the initial deposit. For tin, the corre- sponding advance surrender requirement is 50 per cent of the export value. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is sub- ject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. Exports of coal, plywood, and fu rn i tu re are entitled to an exchange subsidy of K 220 per US$1. 302 Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange converted by foreign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in Laos must be surrendered at the official rate. All other receipts from invisibles may be retained by the recipient. There are no regulations lim- iting the import of foreign or domestic banknotes by travelers. Capital Under the Investment Law of February 1970, vari- ous incentives are available to foreign investors in Laos. Capital in f low is free from exchange control regulations and the foreign exchange need not be surrendered. No off ic ial exchange is granted for outward capital trans- fers other than debt repayments approved by CODE. However, access to the unofficial free market is unre- stricted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form w i th in the country. Banks and other residents who are recognized as industrial users or as importers of gold also may freely import gold in any form, subject to payment of a tax of K 42,000 a kilogram and an import du ty of 3.5 per cent. Exports of gold by or on behalf of physical or juridical persons other than the mone tary authorities are not officially approved. Ex- ports of gold coins issued under Decree No. 784 /PC of June 26, 1969, however, are permitted. Commercial imports and exports of articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold are freely permitted. Changes during 1974 January 15. Impor ts of corrugated iron sheets ceased to be eligible for payment at the official exchange rate of K 600 = US$1. March 3. The tax on imports of gold was increased from K 35,000 to K 39,000 a kilogram. On June 25 it was fu r th er increased to K 42,000. March 28. Presidential Order No. 409 regulated tin exports. The opening of a letter of credit became man- datory and the full export proceeds had to be repatri- ated. Exporters of timber became eligible for a premium of K 220 for each U.S. dollar surrendered, by virtue of Presidential Order No. 241, also of March 28. June 27. Imports of gas oil ceased to be eligible for payment at the official exchange rate. July 22. The official exchange market was closed. It was reopened on August 5. August 5. Access to the official rate of K 600 = US$1 was limited to specified invisibles (List A) and certain essential imports (List B). Imports of 19 other com- modities or groups of commodities (List C) also were eligible for official exchange but were subject to a sur- charge of K 240 per US$1. All other payments had to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS be financed with exchange obtained in the nonofficial free market. The Government Commission for the Co- ordination of Foreign Finance was empowered to mod- ify List C. The CODE remained the sole organization empowered to examine applications for exchange allo- cations. August 5. Advance import deposits henceforth had to be lodged with the Treasury for all official imports until their arrival at customs. Previously, advance de- posits for official imports were only required for goods settled free of tax at the official exchange rate of K 600 = US$1. September 18. Exports of coal became eligible for a premium of K 220 per U.S. dollar. September 20. The prohibition on the maintenance in Laos of bank deposits in foreign currency by residents and nonresidents (o ther' than foreign embassies and international organizations) was terminated. October 4. List C was expanded to include (1) agri- cultural equipment; and (2) raw materials, machinery, equipment, and spare parts for industries other than approved industries. November 30. The exportation of wood in any form was prohibited, with the exception of plywood and furniture. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System All exchange transactions, including those in clear- ing dollars, take place at the free market rate, which for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 was Lebanese Pounds 2.2825 per US$1. There also exists a "moving parity" used for the calculation of duties and taxes levied on amounts invoiced or expressed in foreign cur- rency, particularly customs duties; for December 1974 the "moving parity" was LL 2.35 per US$1. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. Some transac- tions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements1 specifying the method or chan- nel of payment may be made through specific accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (mainly arms and ammuni- tion, narcotics, and similar products) are either prohib- ited or reserved for the Government. All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities (including wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, olive oil, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, and liquid gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licensing. Import licenses are also required for all machinery for the installation or expan- sion of manufacturing plants. All other commodities may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market, but a cash deposit of 15 per cent must be made in foreign currency against import letters of credit. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported, except those of Arab origin, and a stamp tax of 1.2 per cent is applicable to all imports except gold and banknotes. A surcharge of 10 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free mar- ket. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain goods (such as arms and ammuni- tion and narcotics and similar products) to any destina- tion, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain metals and a few other items and exports valued at over LL 200 of certain other items—livestock, wheat and wheat products, bar- 304 ley, rice, sugar, edible oils, dairy products, canned or frozen meat, newsprint, petroleum and petroleum products, and industrial and agricultural machinery and equipment —to any country and all products in- tended for export to North Korea require export li- censes. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or re- ceipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Banks are prohibited from paying interest on nonresident-held deposits denomi- nated in Lebanese pounds. They have been requested not to extend credits in Lebanese pounds to nonresi- dents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are freely permitted and do not require a license but must be officially recorded. The import, export, and domestic sale of foreign gold coins must be covered by a certifi- cate indicating the gold content and weight and issued by the Office for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes during 1974 During 1974 the issuance by foreign borrowers of bonds denominated in Lebanese pounds was officially discouraged. January 23. The central bank allowed commercial banks to meet 25 per cent of the reserve requirement against deposits by depositing foreign exchange. This percentage was increased to 50 in April. The facility was terminated in May. April 3. Exports and re-exports of many foodstuffs and feedstuffs and of certain manufactured goods were made subject to prior licensing. The relevant list was modified on September 24 and November 26. August 1. Banks were required to demand a cash payment in foreign currency equivalent to 15 per cent of the value of newly opened import letters of credit in the currency of the credit. These amounts had to be deposited with the central bank, where they did not bear interest. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON August 1. Banks were prohibited from paying interest on nonresident deposits denominated in Lebanese pounds. August 1. Bank credits in foreign currencies were exempted from certain supplementary reserve require- ments introduced in May. Foreign currency liabilities would be exempted progressively from the regular re- serve requirement, which was reduced immediately from 8 per cent to 5 per cent; it was reduced to 4 per cent on September 1. September 17. Commercial transactions with 29 specified foreign firms were prohibited. September 23. The central bank announced that the regular reserve requirement against banks' foreign cur- rency liabilities would be reduced from 4 per cent to 3 per cent on October 1, to 2 per cent on November 1, and to 1 per cent on December 1. It would be abolished on January 1, 1975. November 18. Banks were requested not to extend credit in Lebanese pounds to nonresidents or renew existing credits of this type. December. Legislation creating a "free banking zone" was about to be promulgated. Under these arrange- ments, foreign currency deposits of nonresidents would be exempt from withholding tax on interest and from reserve requirements, and would not be taken into ac- count in calculating the deposit insurance fee. NOTE 1 Czechoslovakia, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Poland, and Romania. There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Guinea. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange and Trade System Lesotho's currency is the South African Rand. The par value of the rand is 1.04550 grams of f ine gold per rand. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par value, since an exchange rate policy of indepen- dent managed floating has been adopted. The South African Reserve Bank on December 31 ,1974 quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.4500 per R 1. Exchange rates are based on the South African Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against rand and the London market rates for the currencies con- cerned against the U.S. dollar. Lesotho has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a coun try of the Overseas Sterling Area. Lesotho also forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control ter- ritory comprising Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. For purposes of exchange control over transactions in securities or gold, residents of a member country of the latter area are not regarded as residents of another member country. The Ministry of Finance controls all external currency transactions. No restrictions are applied to payments w i th in the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle these are uncon- trolled and unrecorded. In relation to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, Lesotho applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa. Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for outward transfers of capital are consid- ered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Au thor i ty to ap- prove some types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits; this is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adu lt and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Lesotho is a member of a customs union with Bot- swana, South Africa, and Swaziland, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quantity of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Lesotho imports goods direct from countries outside the customs un ion, such imports are usually licensed in conform i ty w i th South Africa's import regulations. Im- port licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange required to make the import payment. Lesotho's trade licensing arrange- ments, however, are designed mainly to raise revenue and to prevent tax evasion and are confined in practice to exports of diamonds; permits are issued by the Min- is t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry. Certain tax incentives for inward direct investment are provided by the Pioneer Industries Encouragement Act, 1969 to manufac tur ing activities approved by a Pioneer Industries Board. Residents may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell certain Lesotho gold coins that are legal tender. Changes during 1974 June 24. South Africa discontinued the existing prac- tice of ma in ta in ing a fixed rate of exchange between the rand and the U.S. dollar for leng thy periods and, in- stead, adopted an exchange rate policy of independent managed f loa t ing. A new middle rate was set for the U.S. dollar at R 1 - US$1.50 (formerly R 1 = US$1.49). The middle rate was changed in 1974 on a number of occasions. September 6. It was announced that within two years Botswana would establish a central bank and issue its own currency, which would replace the rand as legal tender. Botswana w i thdrew from the negotiations with South Africa, Lesotho, and Swaziland on a formaliza- tion and revision of the Rand Monetary Area arrange- ments. Past arrangements would continue, however, un t il the central bank started operations. September 6. Swaziland issued its own currency, the lilangeni, which was at par with the rand. December 5. Agreement was reached in negotiations between Lesotho, Swaziland, and South Africa con- cerning a formalization of, and certain changes in, the existing Rand Monetary Area arrangements. The re- sulting Monetary Agreement came into force on the same date. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of f ine gold per Liberian Dollar, corresponding to $1 = US$1. U.S. currency is legal tender in Liberia and circulates along w i th Liberian coinage. Official accounts are kept in U.S. dollars and cents. There is no exchange control and there are no restrictions on foreign exchange trans- actions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requ iremen ts are in force. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammun i t ion, explosives, used clothing, and Pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses; imports of cement are not being licensed. Also, impor ts of certain goods (e.g., obscene l i tera ture, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all impor ts f rom Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. In practice, meat is imported only by the Liberian Supply Corporation and petroleum only by the Libe- rian Re f in ing Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivo ry, agricultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms and ammun i t ion and explosives. Licenses are gen- erally issued free ly and no licenses are required for direct exports by foreign concession holders; licenses serve ma in ly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of qua l i ty and origin and to safeguard the export monopoly of the Liberian Produce Marke t ing Corporation. The surrender of ex- port proceeds is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts f rom invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Under an Inves tment Incentive Code of 1966 (as amended in 1973), enterprises under tak ing new invest- ment projects may be granted a five-year 90 per cent du ty exemption on impor ts of raw materials and ma- chinery, total tax exemption on reinvested profits, a 50 per cent exemption on distributable profits, and a pro- tective tar iff on competing imported products. The five-year incentive is eligible for a two-year renewal if ex tenua t ing circumstances warrant it. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Impo r ts and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Minister of Finance; import li- censes are issued freely but export licenses are granted restrictively. Changes during 1974 May 20. The Customs Tariff Act 1974, which re- pealed the Tariff Act 1966, came into force. May 28. A central bank, the National Bank of Libe- ria, was established. August 2. Liberia informed the Fund that it was prepared to subscribe to the Vo lun tary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Bal- ance of Payments Purposes. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Lib- yan Dinar, corresponding to LD 0.296053 = US$1, and the Libyan Arab Republic avails itself of wider margins. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency. The Central Bank of Libya publishes daily buying and selling rates for 15 currencies.1 It deals with commer- cial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed daily. The Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were LD 0.29531 buy- ing, and LD 0.29679 selling, per US$1; for the pound sterling the buying and selling rates were LD 0.69266 and LD 0.69614, respectively, per £ stg. 1. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dol- lars through their foreign correspondents. The com- mercial banks' buying and selling rates for currencies other than sterling and U.S. dollars are based on quota- tions in London, New York, and other centers abroad. They may not deal among themselves in foreign curren- cies. Neither authorized banks nor importers or export- ers are allowed to enter in to forward commitments in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by the Ministry of Economy. Import and export licenses generally are issued by the Ministry of Economy; for certain imports the approval of another Ministry (Interior, Health, Agriculture and Agrarian Reform, or Defense) is required. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products, wheat, f lour, rice, barley, vegetable oils, tomato paste, tea, sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, cigarette paper, and phar- maceuticals are confined to public sector companies and ins t i tu t ions. Impor ts of unprocessed gold are con- fined to the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th other countries are made in con- vertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars or pounds ster- ling. All settlements with Israel, Mozambique, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Central Bank, who is ga infu l ly employed in the Libyan Arab Republic is permitted under the existing exchange control regula- tions to open and maintain a nonresident account in Libyan dinars w i th any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. Legitimate earnings from employers of 308 such nonresidents, including overtime payments, can be credited to their nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Remittances abroad from such accounts maintained by nonresident laborers and technicians can be allowed by banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each month; for those whose con- tracts specify that lodging and /or board will be made available free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. Banks may issue travelers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident laborers and technicians within the limits mentioned. Applications for amounts in excess of these limits must be submitted to the Central Bank. Such nonresidents may take w i th them when going abroad on vacation or on final departure certain goods whose value is not deducted f rom the balances in their nonres- ident accounts; a nonresident may also export one auto- mobile during his period of service in the Libyan Arab Republic. Funds brought in to the Libyan Arab Republic by nonresident contractors undertaking contracts in their own names are required to be kept in "special resident accounts" w i th a bank in the Republic. Payments re- ceived in the Libyan Arab Republic by such contrac- tors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from the Libyan Arab Republic to the debit of these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank after submission of all the prescribed evidence. Nonresident-owned capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts. With the approval of the Central Bank, funds in blocked accounts (with certain exceptions) may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Republic up to LD 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to the Libyan Arab Republic by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payments in the Libyan Arab Repub- lic of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his coun t ry of permanent residence, up to LD 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for f ive years, they qua l i fy for remit- tance in full to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons (with cer- tain exceptions) who have left the Libyan Arab Repub- lic permanently are being released in installments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments Import transactions are governed by Law No. 64 of 1971, which, among other things, stipulates that import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and export activities for trading purposes shall be con- fined to Libyans and to Libyan companies whose capi- tal is wholly owned by Libyan nationals. Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. The import of some items, including alcoholic beverages and narcotics, is prohib- ited. Imports of petroleum and petroleum products, sugar, salt, tea, rice, barley, wheat, flour, vegetable oils, tomato paste, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, cigarette pa- per and Pharmaceuticals are confined to public sector companies and institutions and may be imported only by the National Oil Corporation, the National Supplies Corporation, the Tobacco General Company, or the National Company for Medicines. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. All imports from Israel, Mozambique, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports from the United Kingdom of specified consumer goods are sus- pended. Exchange permits required for imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained and, if the import is to be made on a letter of credit basis, that a marine insurance policy from an insurance company in the Libyan Arab Repub- lic is submitted before the letter of credit is established. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an autho- rized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Importers must submit to the bank granting the exchange permit, within two months of customs clearance, a customs declaration confirming clearance and stating the valuation. The approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Central Bank is required for advance payments. Deferred payments (for up to 90 days after customs clearance) and payments for consignment shipments may be approved by the authorized banks. Imports are subject to customs duty and to customs surcharges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable cus- toms duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to approve ap- plications by residents to remit foreign exchange up to LD 100 in a calendar year for meeting genuine per- sonal commitments abroad of a noncommercial nature, including family assistance and gifts. They may also approve transfers abroad of up to LD 1,320 a year for each student (plus tuition fees, an allowance for books, etc.) for educational purposes, as well as allocations for travel as indicated below. Remittances from nonresi- dent accounts may be approved by authorized banks up to certain limits (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval authority delegated to the banks, require licenses from the Central Bank. Applications are considered on their merits. LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC Persons leaving the country may take with them Lib- yan currency notes not exceeding a total of LD 20 (LD 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the Libyan Arab Republic, but are intended for immediate expenses in the Libyan Arab Republic upon return to the country. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of LD 300 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the ex- change may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. Children under 12 years of age are allowed half of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota of LD 300 in addition to the basic travel allowance. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of LD 500 a trip, subject to a maximum of LD 2,500 in any calen- dar year. All fares may be settled in Libyan dinars in the Libyan Arab Republic. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are only required for fish and for commodities which are not of Libyan origin. Export proceeds must be received through an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Exports of nonmone- tary gold (other than for processing abroad), vegetable oils, and scrap metals are prohibited, as is the export or re-export of wheat, wheat flour, crushed wheat, bar- ley, rice, tea, sugar, and macaroni. All exports to Israel, Mozambique, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Central Bank of Libya. Travelers entering the Libyan Arab Republic may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of LD 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, securities, coupons, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Capital Many aspects of the activities of oil companies oper- ating in the Libyan Arab Republic are governed by Petroleum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. However, 51 per cent or more of the Libyan interests of certain international oil companies has been nationalized. Un- der the provisions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law No. 37 of July 31, 1968, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic devel- 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC opment of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of foreign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin, provided that the paid-up capital is not less than LD 200,000 and that at least 51 per cent of the shares is held by foreign nationals. Foreign participation in new indus- trial ventures (i.e., those set up after March 20, 1970) is permitted only on a minority basis, and only if it leads to increased production in excess of local require- ments, introduction of the latest technology, and coop- eration w i th foreign firms in exporting the surplus production. Insurance companies and foreign share- holdings in banks have been nationalized. Commercial firms have been Libyanized in vary ing degrees. Real estate in the Libyan Arab Republic may be sold only to Libyans, save in exceptional circumstances specified in a law of May 24, 1960 governing this sub- ject. The net sales proceeds af ter tax of real estate be- longing to foreign nationals are transferable, subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresi- dent-owned capital that is not permitted to be trans- ferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Central Bank to bor- row funds abroad. As a rule, residents require prior permission to purchase real estate situated outside the Libyan Arab Republic or to invest abroad in securities. Residents of the Libyan Arab Republic tak ing up per- manent residence abroad are permitted to t ran s fer up to LD 5,000 for a fam i ly; applications may be subm i t- ted for the release of the balance of the ir assets over a number of years. The investment of na t ional capital abroad is governed by Law No. 25 of April 20, 1973. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in the Libyan Arab Republic. The Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of unworked gold. It sells bars to domestic goldsmiths in limited quantities, to meet genuine commercial needs, at prices announced from time to time; at the end of 1974 this price was LD 1,902 a kilogram. Provided that a license is obtained from the Ministry of Econ- omy, goldsmiths may have such gold processed abroad, after which it must be reimported. Bars purchased from the Central Bank must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the public. Exports of unworked gold not for processing are not permitted unless made by or on behalf of the Government. Unworked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1974 February 15. The bilateral payments arrangements with Romania were terminated. March 3. The export and re-export of wheat, flour, crushed wheat, barley, rice, tea, sugar, and macaroni was prohibited. March 5. The National Supplies Corporation was granted a monopoly on the import of tomato paste. Import licensing of motion pictures became the respon- sibility of the General Film Corporation. May 31. The bilateral payments arrangements with Bulgaria were terminated. June 1. The Central Bank's price for gold sold to domestic goldsmiths was changed from LD 1,302 a kilogram to LD 1,788 a kilogram. On December 1, the price was increased to LD 1,902 a kilogram. NOTE 1 Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian di- nars, and U.S. dollars. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Re- public has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Malagasy Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of FMG 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transactions in French francs, the interven- tion currency, between the Central Bank of the Mala- gasy Republic and commercial banks take place at the rates of FMG 50.25 selling, and FMG 49.75 buying, per F 1. The Central Bank quotes seven other curren- cies.1 Its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were FMG 221.11 and FMG 223.34, respectively. The authorized banks are not permitted to maintain an exchange position in any foreign currency. All countries other than the Mala- gasy Republic itself are considered foreign countries, and financial relations with all foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Office of External Finance of the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also su- pervises borrowing and lending abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, all outward investments, and inward direct investment. Some of the exchange control approval authority has been delegated to the autho- rized banks. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau of the Directorate of Commerce and Prices in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, including those for gold. Export authorizations are issued either by the Foreign Trade Bureau or by other specified public agencies, mainly stabilization funds or marketing of- fices for agricultural products. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks, which may deal with the Central Bank of the Malagasy Republic only in the currencies quoted by the latter. Nonresident Accounts The principal type of nonresident account is Foreign Accounts in Malagasy Francs; these accounts may be debited and credited only for transactions between nonresidents and for explicitly authorized transactions between residents and nonresidents. When Malagasy francs accruing to a nonresident are not immediately eligible for credit to a Foreign Account, they must be credited to a Special Account, balances in which may be used by the holder for personal expenses in the Malagasy Republic, subject to a limit of FMG 10,000 a day during a period not exceeding 30 days. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to import licensing; the im- port of certain other items is prohibited or suspended until further notice. Imports of fruit juices are condi- tional on purchases of domestic fru it juices (jumelage). Imports are effected within the framework of an annual import program. The import program is based on the establishment of global quotas that set the limits up to which specified commodities may be imported. For cer- tain goods automatic licenses are issued. The import of certain items is reserved for the Regie Malgache des Monopoles Fiscaux and the Societe Nationale de Com- merce (SON AGO). All import transactions valued at FMG 10,000 or more must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange (not earlier than eight days before ship- ment when a documentary credit is opened); the payment can be made when the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. For some types of transactions the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks, either up to speci- fied limits or for any amount that is properly docu- mented. Residents may obtain an exchange allocation for tourism equivalent to FMG 75,000 a person a trip, for up to two trips a year (FMG 35,000 for children under ten); any foreign exchange remaining after return to the Malagasy Republic must be surrendered. There also is an exchange allocation for business travel up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a maximum of FMG 200,000 a person a trip, for any number of trips a year. Authorized banks may not make available foreign banknotes in excess of the equiv- alent of FMG 20,000 a person a trip for tourist or business travel. Applications for amounts in excess of the basic tourist and business travel allocations, and applications for exchange for any other type of travel, must be submitted to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Allocations for different types of travel may not be combined without the prior approval of the Directorate of the Treasury. There are basic allocations for study expenses and certain other current invisibles. Dividends are transfer- able in full when distributed by industrial firms and up to 75 per cent in other cases; they may only be trans- ferred to nonresident physical or juridical persons of 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC foreign na t iona l i ty. The transfer of savings from wages and salaries earned by a foreigner wo rk ing in the Mala- gasy Republic is permitted, upon presentation of his employment contract and provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period, up to 25 per cent of the net salary for bachelors and per- sons having their fam i ly in the Malagasy Republic, and up to 45 per cent for those whose fam i ly lives outside the Malagasy Republic (100 per cent for all concerned during leave spent outside the Malagasy Republic). Resident and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to FMG 5,000 in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any re- ma in ing foreign banknotes and coins and other foreign means of payment declared by them on en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an exit permit (autorisation de sortie) issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau or the appropriate commodity stabiliza- tion office; these products include coffee, vanilla, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petro- leum products. Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered; such export proceeds normally must become due not later than one mon th af ter arrival of the goods at their destination. All export transactions valued at FMG 50,000 or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank and a commitment to repatriate the proceeds must be signed. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds accruing in those countries or from nonresidents, must be col- lected and, when received in foreign currency, surren- dered within one mon th of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. The import of Malagasy banknotes is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between the Malagasy Republic and foreign countries and between residents and non- residents are subject to exchange control; capital trans- fers to all countries require exchange control approval, but capital receipts from foreign countries normally are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, ad- vertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic. Foreign direct investments in the Malagasy Repub- lic,2 and Malagasy direct investments abroad,3 require 312 prior approval of the Minister of Economy and Finance (i.e., the Directorate of the Treasury). The total or par- tial liquidation of such investments must be declared to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Malagasy invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in the Malagasy Republic, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company, but such participation is sub- ject to prior declaration to the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in the Malagasy Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Fi- nance. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Malagasy Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in the Malagasy Republic has previously been autho- rized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical persons, whether public or private persons, requires prior autho- rization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. However, loans contracted by authorized banks or credit ins t i tu t ions with special legal status are exempt from approval. Lending abroad is subject to exchange control authorization and is restricted. In accordance w i th the Investment Code of Septem- ber 19, 1973, foreign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted preferential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agremeni). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, import licenses, the introduction of quotas for competing imports, etc. The same benefits may be granted temporarily to investments not qualify- ing for an "order of approval." Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a participation contract (contrat de participation). Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Malagasy Republic. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Central Bank; (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports by travelers of gold jewelry and other articles of gold up to 500 grams a family and collector's coins up to 200 grams a family. Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be surrendered to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the Directorate of Mines, which, in principle, must de- liver it to the Central Bank after processing. Changes during 1974 January 19. The exchange rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the decision of the French authorities to float the French franc in the official ex- change market. February 4. Circular No. 1419 gave details regarding the implementation of Order No. 3393 of Septem- ber 20, 1973 and completed Circular No. 30409 of Oc- tober 10, 1973 with respect to the transfer to nonresidents of rents on property. February 13. Order No. 530 regulated the import regime. With minor specified exceptions, all imports required an import license issued within the framework of a general import program. Licenses would be issued to importers holding an importer's card according to a quota allocation system based on (1) the fiscal tax paid (patente); (2) the degree of specialization; and (3) the percentage of nonutilization of earlier allocations. Au- tomatic licenses (without prior allocation of quotas) would be issued for the following: supplies for industry, particularly raw materials and spare parts for machin- ery; pharmaceutical products and supplies for medical purposes; and parts of all kinds, especially for rolling stock, motors, and any type of apparatus. Licenses were personal and nontransferable. May 21. Order No. 1975 delegated to authorized banks the power to allocate foreign exchange within prescribed limits for (1) study abroad; (2) correspon- MALAGASY REPUBLIC dence courses; (3) subscriptions to permitted periodi- cals and newspapers; and (4) specified commercial transactions. May 21. Circular No. 13230 gave details regarding the implementation of Order No. 1975 with respect to exchange allocations for study abroad. July 13. Notice No. 1019 was published containing the import quotas for the second half of 1974. September 18. Order No. 3747 authorized, subject to the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the transfer abroad of dividends distributed by companies established or operating in the Malagasy Republic. The transferable portion of a declared divi- dend was, in principle, 100 per cent for industrial firms and 75 per cent for other firms. Transfers could only be made in favor of nonresident physical or juridical per- sons of foreign nationality. These provisions would first be applicable to the fiscal year 1973. Dividends relating to earlier fiscal years would be transferable as follows: 50 per cent before June 30, 1975, and 50 per cent one year after the effective transfer of the first portion. NOTES 1 These currencies are listed as Belgian francs, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Including those made by companies in the Malagasy Re- public that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Re- public of foreign companies. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in the Malagasy Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Malagasy Repub- lic. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of f ine gold per Ma- lawi Kwacha. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par value. Since November 19, 1973 the Reserve Bank of Malawi has set daily buy ing and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling in light of exchange market developments abroad. On De- cember 31, 1974 the Reserve Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were MK 1 = US$1.1927 and MK 1 = US$1.1867, respectively, and those for ster- ling were MK 1 = £0.5086 and MK 1 = £0.5060, respectively. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approv- ing normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks designated as authorized dealers. Import policy is formulated by the Minister of Trade and Indus try, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Minister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Malawi has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. For prescription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the rest of the Sterling Area (the Nonresident Scheduled Area) and all other countries except Rhodesia (the External Account Area).1 Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Malawi kwacha through a Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Pay- ments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Malawi kwacha to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rho- desian currency. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be re- ceived in sterling or in Malawi kwacha from an Exter- nal Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations ap- ply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi kwacha held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Nonresi- dent Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any Sterling 314 Area currency, with authorized payments to Sterling Area countries by residents, and with transfers from other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be used to make payments to residents of Malawi for any purpose and may be trans- ferred freely to other Nonresident Scheduled Area Ac- counts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily resi- dent in Malawi. Transfers to External Accounts require specific approval. Accounts in Malawi kwacha held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Ac- counts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia, with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, with individually approved transfers from Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to autho- rized dealers. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area territory, or to Nonresident Scheduled Area Ac- counts in Malawi, and for purchases of any Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhode- sian currency from authorized dealers; they may also be debited for withdrawals by the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi. External Accounts—Rhodesia are accounts in Ma- lawi kwacha that are held by persons regarded as resi- dents of Rhodesia. They may only be credited with (1) the proceeds from the sale of Rhodesian currency to an authorized dealer in Malawi, and (2) transfers from another Rhodesian External Account. The accounts may be debited with (1) payments to residents of Ma- lawi for any purpose; (2) payments to the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi; (3) trans- fers to another Rhodesian External Account; and (4) transfers to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Malawi kwacha held with au- thorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Malawi currency which have accrued to nonresi- dents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of bal- ances of Blocked Accounts in Malawian securities, pro- vided that these are held in Malawi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restric- tions is the Control of Goods Act, which authorizes the Minister of Trade and Indus try to control and regulate the import, export, distribution, disposal, purchase, sale, wholesale price, and retail price of any goods. It also has provisions which, when brought into opera- tion, will require all importers and exporters to be regis- tered. The import from Rhodesia of asbestos, iron ore, pig iron, chrome, tobacco, copper, and hides and skins is prohibited. For a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the coun try of origin. All other goods may be imported under an open general license when originating in Commonwealth countries or in non-Commonwealth countries that are members of the GATT. Imports originating in the Republic of China are treated similarly but require an individual license. With respect to other countries, an import license is required for all commodities except certain items such as petroleum products, exposed cinematographic films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding MK 50 in value, samples, and advertising materials. Payments for imports from all countries must be made w i th in six mon ths a f ter the date of impor t, except with the express permission of the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange for these payments is au- tomatically granted by the authorized dealers, subject only to the presentation of relevant documents and compliance with import licensing requirements. Any transfer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohib- ited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to MK 100 on presentation of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires payment in advance. Imports from any Sterling Area country may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local Nonresident Sched- uled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Imports from other areas, except Rho- desia, may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local External Account, in sterling to an External Account held elsewhere in the Sterling Area, or in any non-Ster- ling Area currency. A surtax of 10 per cent is levied on most goods imported into Malawi, irrespective of their origin; the surtax is calculated on 120 per cent of the sum of the value for customs du ty purposes and any customs du ty payable. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to impor ts, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the authorized dealers without prior reference to the exchange control authorities. The basic exchange allowance for private travel is MK 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of MK 600 a calendar year, and MK 10 a day for each child under MALAWI 18 years of age, with a maximum of MK 300 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and of MK 200 a year for children under 10. The annual allowance is not cumulative but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allow- ance during the preceding three years. These alloca- tions are subject to a combined maximum of MK 2,000 a year for a family traveling together. The basic ex- change allowance for business travel is MK 40 a day, up to MK 400 a trip for any number of trips a year. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, and family remittances. Applications for amounts ex- ceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals em- ployed in Malawi on contracts or holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their current net earnings to their country of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to MK 20 in Malawi currency and the equivalent of MK 20 in foreign cur- rency in addition to their basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed MK 100 in value are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not later than six months after the date of exportation. Certain commodities3 are sub- ject to export licensing, mainly to ensure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any foreign currency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported by travelers, but not more than MK 20 in Malawi currency notes and coins may be imported. The import of currency notes and coins of the former Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted, with the exception that the taking up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This is normally granted, provided that the terms of repayment are realistic. Outward transfers of capital, inc lud ing those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authori- ties that the original investment was made with funds brought in to the coun try f rom sources outside Malawi; there are no restrictions on the transfer abroad of divi- dends and prof i ts of foreign-owned companies, pro- 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI vided that no recourse is being made to local borrow- ing. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are re- quired to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange which accrues to them. However, resi- dents may purchase foreign securities (except bearer securities) quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and held to the order of an authorized dealer, and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are permitted to be repatriated by the exchange control authorities of the country concerned. All income earned from these investments must be re- patriated, and the corresponding foreign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to MK 15,000 whether single or married. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of 50 are allowed MK 6,000 on departure, together with MK 500 for each child, up to a maximum of MK 8,000 for a family. (3) Unmarried persons who have not reached 50 years of age are allowed MK 3,000 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each anniversary of his departure from Malawi, up to a max- imum of MK 8,000. Applications for emigrants' allow- ances, whether initial or subsequent, must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresi- dents or to resident firms controlled directly or indi- rectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be withheld if it is felt that excessive recourse is being had to local borrowing, and that the firms have brought in insufficient working capital from abroad. Gold Residents of Malawi may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary au- thorities and authorized industrial users are not al- lowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Indus t ry in consultation w i th the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1974 November 1. Malawi subscribed to the Fund's Vol- un ta ry Declaration on Trade and Other Current Ac- count Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. NOTES 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all curren- cies other than the Malawi kwacha (or any other currency that may be legal tender in Malawi) are considered foreign currencies. 2 Certain agricultural and food products, new (military type) and used c lo th ing, gold, sugar, wheat flour, cement, fertilizers, newsprint and certain paper products, pencils, ball-point pens, office stapling machines and staples, printing inks, erasers, hand-operated numbering stamps, flick knives, explosives, arms and ammun i t ion, game traps, mist nets, wild animals, live f ish, cassava, and copyright articles. 3 Implements of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, and certain agricultural and animal prod- ucts. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Dollar, and Malaysia avails itself of wider margins. Since June 21, 1973, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate within an- nounced margins. The closing buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the Malaysian foreign exchange market on December 31, 1974 were MS2.3125 and M$2.3130 per US$1, respectively. The commercial banks are free to determine and quote exchange rates for all currencies to customers and are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Malaysia formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malaysia, the Governor of the Bank being the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Much of the au- thority for approving normal current payments is dele- gated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day administration of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise. * Certain import and export trans- actions are effected by a state trading corporation, the National Trading Corporation (PERNAS). Prescription of Currency Malaysia has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. All payments to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made either in Malaysian dollars through an External Account, or in any currency other than Israel, Rhodesian, and South African currencies. Receipts from exports to countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa must be obtained, within six months from the date of exportation, either in Malaysian dollars obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts The accounts in Malaysian dollars of residents of countries other than Malaysia are treated as nonresi- dent accounts and, unless specially restricted, are desig- nated External Accounts. There are no restrictions on debits to External Accounts. Credits to these accounts for whatever purpose are freely permitted subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$ 1,000; the proceeds from the sale of any foreign currency may be credited to External Ac- counts. For amounts exceeding M$ 1,000 and up to M$l million, permission may be given by commercial banks; above M$l million, permission is given by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any currency except Israel, Rhodesian, and South African currencies. Accounts of residents of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are designated as Israel Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and South African Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not yet been fully unified, although steps toward unification are being taken. Some internal tar- i f fs and other trade restrictions still exist between the territories of Malaysia. Most imports are permitted freely. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; various condi- tions must be satisfied before licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quanti- tative restrictions as a temporary measure to protect local industries; these restrictions are reviewed from time to time. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities from Israel, South Africa, Rhodesia, or any territory administered by any one of these are prohibited. Im- ports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities from the People's Republic of China are prohibited except under specific license, and applications to import must be submitted through PERNAS. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities from the German Demo- cratic Republic and North Korea also require specific licenses. Imports into West Malaysia of primates from all sources, including Sabah and Sarawak, are prohibited except under specific license; imports of other live ani- mals (except sheep and goats), bones, and bone meal from Brunei, Burma, Indonesia, the Khmer Republic, Laos, Thailand, and Viet-Nam also require a specific license. Imports into Sarawak of sulphur, certain chem- icals, and live sheep and goats from all sources, includ- ing West Malaysia and Sabah, are prohibited, except under specific license. Imports of motor vehicles and certain types of textiles into all parts of Malaysia are also subject to specific import licensing; however, im- ports of textiles into Sabah and Sarawak are allowed 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA freely. Imports of wheat flour, bran, and sugar2 from all sources are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons; licenses for wheat flour and refined sugar are not being issued. Other goods subject to quantitative restriction in West Malaysia include rolled oats, certain cotton fabrics, jute, and fu l ly assembled or completely built-up motor vehicles. Payment for per- mitted imports is freely allowed after exchange control requirements have been met. Virtually all imports into Malaysia (including Pe- nang but excluding Labuan) are subject to a surtax of 4 per cent ad valorem. Some essential goods, such as rice, common salt, and kerosene, are exempt, and a drawback may be granted on goods intended for re-export or for export after processing. In addition, most imports into Malaysia (excluding Penang and La- buan) are subject to a sales tax; the standard rate of tax is 5 per cent ad valorem, but certain luxury goods are subject to a rate of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa may be made freely after exchange control requirements have been met. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign ex- change made available for travel abroad. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and prof i ts on all bona fide investments are freely permitted, subject only to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts in excess of M$ 1,000. Unless special permis- sion is obtained, not more than M$ 1,000 in Malaysian notes and the equivalent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers. Nonresident travelers are allowed to take out foreign currency notes up to the amount declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports from any Malaysian territory. Exchange con- trol forms have to be completed and authorized by banks in Malaysia for exports valued at M$5,000 f.o.b. or more.3 Proceeds f rom exports must be received within six mon ths of shipment either in a specified currency or in Malaysian dollars obtained from the sale of a specified currency to a bank in Malaysia. Exports of rubber from West Malaysia require a certificate is- sued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange and Licensing Board. Exports of rubber and tin to South Africa and any territory administered by South Africa are prohib- ited, as are exports of sugar to any destination. All exports to Israel and Rhodesia and any terr i tory ad- ministered by either are also prohibited. Exports of cement, scrap iron, steel bars, formic acid, wheat f lou r, rice bran, and sugar are subject to licensing, and li- censes for these are administratively denied. Exports of 318 certain confectionery items, tiles, fish meal, and bricks are also subject to licensing. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing ex- change receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers may bring in up to M$ 1,000 in Malaysian currency notes; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Malaysian notes. No limitations are imposed on the import by travelers of currency notes of other countries. Capital Inward investment covered by the Guidelines issued on February 20, 1974 regarding the acquisition of as- sets, mergers, and take-overs requires prior approval by the Foreign Investment Committee. The proceeds of investments may be repatriated freely on resale, subject to the completion of exchange control forms for amounts above M$ 1,000. Malaysian residents require approval for borrowings from nonresidents in either Malaysian dollars or in foreign currencies. Companies in Malaysia controlled by nonresidents are permitted to borrow in Malaysia up to M$500,000 without exchange control approval. The permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange is freely given for direct and portfo- lio investment by Malaysian residents in countries other than Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than gold that has been materially increased in value by skilled craftsmanship. The manufacture, import, or export of gold coins is prohibited, as is do- mestic t rad ing in gold coins other than the M$100 gold coin of Malaysian currency and the S$ 150 gold coin of Singapore currency. Resident and nonresident travel- ers, however, may freely bring in or take out, on their person, one M$100 gold coin. In addition, each traveler is allowed to bring in from any country outside Malay- sia one S$ 150 gold coin issued by the Singapore Board of Commissioners of Currency, and each traveler may take out one such coin, but only to Singapore. Licensed goldsmiths are permitted by the exchange control au- thorities to purchase certain quantities of gold from an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manufacture of bona fide jewelry and ornaments. Fur- thermore, producers of gold are permitted to sell their output at local free market prices to authorized dealers in gold. Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and require licenses from the Ministry of Trade and Indu s t ry. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler is not normally given except for imports by authorized dealers in gold to meet the genu- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ine requirements of goldsmiths for manufacturing jew- elry and ornaments and for industrial use. Imports are allocated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender system; successful tenderers must pay a pre- mium to the Government. Imports are subject to a 2 per cent import duty and a 4 per cent surtax (suspended until December 31, 1975), as well as a sales tax of 10 per cent ad valorem. Domestic transactions in gold or gold ornaments are subject only to the sales tax, at 10 per cent ad valorem. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler are prohibited under the exchange control regula- tions. Changes during 1974 February 20. Guidelines were issued regulating the acquisition of assets or interests in Malaysia, as well as mergers and take-overs of companies and businesses in Malaysia. These would not normally be permitted un- less they led to a more balanced Malaysian participa- tion in ownership and control that would conform to the objectives of the New Economic Policy proclaimed in 1971. The Guidelines applied to any proposed acqui- sition by foreign interests of any substantial fixed assets in Malaysia and to any merger or take-over of compa- nies and businesses in Malaysia, whether by Malaysian or foreign interests. They did not apply to specific projects approved by the Government. Within the framework of the Guidelines, foreign investment in Malaysia would continue to be encouraged. For the purpose of implementing the Guidelines, a Foreign In- vestment Committee was established on the same date. Approval from the committee would be needed for the following: (1) any proposed acquisition by foreign in- terests of any substantial fixed assets in Malaysia; (2) any proposed acquisition of assets or any interests, mergers, and take-overs of companies and businesses in Malaysia by any means, which would result in owner- ship or control passing to foreign interests; (3) any proposed acquisition of 15 per cent or more of the voting power by any one foreign interest or associated group, or by foreign interests in the aggregate of 30 per cent or more of the voting power of a Malaysian com- pany or business; (4) control of Malaysian companies MALAYSIA and businesses through any form of joint venture agree- ment, management agreement, technical assistance agreement, or other arrangements; (5) any merger or take-over of any company or business in Malaysia, whether by Malaysian or foreign interests; and (6) any other proposed acquisition of assets or interests exceed- ing in value M$l million, whether by Malaysian or foreign interests. March L The licensing requirement for imports of completely knocked down passenger automobiles, buses, and motorcycles previously applicable only in West Malaysia was extended to Sabah and Sarawak. March 12. Restrictions were formally applied to the making of payments and transfers between residents of Malaysia and residents of Israel. Imports from and exports to Israel were prohibited. April 1. Unless otherwise specified, the value date for spot exchange transactions henceforth was two work- ing days after the transaction date. July 18. Major rubber exporters and owners of large rubber estates agreed to reduce their rubber sales by 10 per cent for an initial period of one month. Subse- quently, these arrangements were extended indefinitely. Also, on November 28 they were supplemented by stock-building requirements for packers, remillers, and exporters, as part of a six-point national program to stabilize rubber prices. August 15. The Investment Incentives (Amendment) Act, 1974 amended the Investment Incentives Act, 1968. October 10. Additional tax incentives for exports of manufactured goods were introduced by the Income Tax (Promotion of Exports) (Amendment) Rules, 1974. October 16. Imports into West Malaysia of certain woven fabrics of man-made fibers from all sources re- quired a specific license. NOTES 1 The three territories of Malaysia are West Malaysia, Sa- bah, and Sarawak. Labuan and Penang are free ports. 2 Including jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses listed under specified tariff numbers. 3 In the case of exports to Indonesia, in excess of M$ 100,000. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Mali has been estab- lished with the Fund. The official un it of currency is the Mali Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of MF 1 = 0.01 French franc. There is also a fixed rate for CFA francs of MF 2 = CFAF 1. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned. With the exception of those relating to gold, Mali's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Mali itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to ex- change control. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance has sole au tho r i ty in ex- change control matters; certain exchange control pow- ers have been delegated to authorized banks. The bilateral paymen ts agreements are operated by the De- velopment Bank of Mali. Licenses for impor ts and ex- ports are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic A f f a i rs in the M in is t ry of Commerce. Ex- change control is applicable on ly to foreign countries. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments arrangements are made in curren- cies and through accounts established under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are maintained with the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the Ger- man Democratic Republic, Egypt, Hunga ry, Morocco, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and No r th Viet- Nam.1 Mali is an Operations Account coun t ry of the French Franc Area, since its Central Bank ma in ta ins an Opera- tions Account w i th the French Treasury; settlements w i th France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account coun t ry. Settlements with all other countries w i th which no pay- ments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies 320 of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are, in principle, based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and licenses are not normally issued for certain other goods. Imports of all other goods, irrespective of origin, require individual licenses, and imports from foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. The program consists of two parts: an allocation for clearing countries and one for the con- vertible area (defined as comprising all other countries, including the French Franc Area). Certain aid-financed imports are not included in the import program and do not require an import license. Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de 1'Import-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most impor- tan t, hav ing a monopoly over the import of a number of items.2 All imports from and exports to countries that have payments agreements with Mali are made by SOMIEX or UNICOOP. The Office des Produits Agricoles du Mali (OPAM) has a monopoly over the import of cereals. An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover. Im- port licenses are issued to the private importer up to the l im it of the quota accorded to him. In addition, import- ers may w i th an import license import any goods under the EXIC (Exportation et Importation Concomitante) procedure. The authorized banks are permitted to make foreign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above) and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisi- bles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresi- dents in the form of prof i ts, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above) and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to MF 150,000 a person, which may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Mali must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of MF 40,000 a day, subject to a maximum of MF 400,000 a trip.3 The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Mali is permitted upon presenta- tion of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Resident travelers, irrespective of destination, may take out up to a maximum of MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries (MF 5,000 for trips of less than 24 hours). Nonresident travelers may freely take out foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of MF 150,000; higher amounts may be taken out only if declared upon entry. They may also take out MF 50,000 in Mali banknotes and any payments instruments drawn up abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Oper- ations Account country must be surrendered; export proceeds must normally be collected and repatriated within 90 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination. Exports require individual licenses in order to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds. The ex- port of cotton, groundnuts, meat, and hides and skins is reserved in principle for SOMIEX and the Societe Ma- lienne du Detail et des Peaux et Cuirs (SOMBEPEC); in practice, hides and skins may also be exported by pri- vate firms and individuals. Under the EXIC procedure, exporters may retain 75 per cent of proceeds from exports of commodities of the traditional sector except those covered by the monop- oly of state trading companies, for payment for their own imports that are made through regular official channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not transferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above) and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. MALI Capital Capital movements between Mali, France (as defined above), and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad; the Development Bank of Mali is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above) or to countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Under an Investment Code of May 23, 1969 and Law No. 62 of January 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment to foreign invest- ments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Mali for numismatic purposes and for ornaments. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of MF 1 = F 0.01 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies within predetermined margins. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Mali also ceased to operate. The financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official exchange market and through For- eign Accounts in Francs. No exchange control regula- tions to this effect were issued in Mali. June 6. Exports of oils (refined or unrefined), groundnuts, and soap were suspended for the rest of 1974. September 10. Notice of termination was given of the bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia. The agreement expired on December 31. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI NOTES 1 The paymen ts arrangement w i th Morocco is inoperative. Settlements w i th Czechoslovakia were placed on a convert- ible currency basis w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1975. 2 These include cement, flour, milk, salt, soap, sugar, and tea. 3 Exchange for tourist travel purposes is made available only to persons subm i t t ing an exit permit Cauterisation de sortie) issued by the Security Services. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malta pound. In December 1971 a central rate of 2.18613 grams of fine gold per Malta pound was established, corresponding at the time to £M 0.374412 = US$1, or £M 0.406504 = SDR 1 and Malta avails itself of wider margins. However, as at the end of 1974, the prescribed margins were not being observed for the time being, and the Central Bank of Malta quoted daily rates for sterling based on developments in the princi- pal exchange markets abroad. l The Central Bank's basic rate for the pound sterling on December 31, 1974 was £ stg. 113.75 buying, and £ stg. 113.50 selling, per £M 100. The commercial banks' rates for non-Ster- ling Area currencies are based on London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Indicative buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were US$2.6744 and US$2.6626 per £M 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank as agent for the Minister of Finance and Cus- toms; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry of Trade, Industry, Agricul- ture, and Tourism. Certain authorities to approve ap- plications for the allocation of foreign exchange have been delegated to the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Malta has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations Malta continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Authorized payments to all countries may be made by crediting Malta pounds to an External Account or in any foreign currency; 2 the proceeds of exports to all countries may be received in Malta pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries outside Malta may main- tain with authorized banks nonresident accounts in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized pay- ments by nonresidents, with transfers from other Exter- nal Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or any foreign currency (including banknotes), and with Malta banknotes mailed from outside Malta. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to resi- dents, for transfers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any foreign currency (including banknotes). Authorized dealers may also freely open and main- tain foreign currency accounts for nonresidents. These accounts may be credited with payments in foreign currency to the account holder, with transfers from another foreign currency account belonging to a non- resident, and with interest payable on foreign currency accounts. They may be debited for payments by the account holder to residents, for transfers to other for- eign currency accounts, and for transfers abroad. Blocked Accounts in Malta pounds are maintained for nonresidents of Malta for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regu- lations, may not be transferred outside Malta. The principal type of funds that must be credited to a Blocked Account are assets of emigrants in excess of the amount that may be transferred to the new country of residence; the remaining funds are normally released four years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities manufactured in Malta are either prohibited or restricted. All imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet- Nam are subject to specific licensing, as are imports of some 100 items from any country of origin. Imports from countries other than those mentioned that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be made freely under open general license. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescription of currency regulations are com- plied with and that supporting documents, including the customs entry form, are submitted to the intermedi- ary bank. Advance payments for imports may be made against the invoice if the goods are to arrive within six months but otherwise require Central Bank approval. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles in excess of £M 50 re- quire the approval of the exchange control authorities; the approval authority has been delegated to autho- rized banks for certain types of payment. There is a standard exchange allocation for tourist travel of the equivalent of £M 250 a person a trip; a business travel allowance of £M 250 or £M 30 a day (for up to 30 days a trip), whichever is the larger; and an allowance for educational expenses abroad of £M 2,000 a person for an academic year. 3 Applications for allowances in ex- cess of these amounts are approved by the Central Bank if the latter is satisfied that there is no illicit capital outflow involved. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA The transfer of genuine profits, dividends, and inter- est for approved foreign investments requires Central Bank permission, which is normally given, after com- pliance with certain formalities. Life insurance ex- pressed in Malta currency may be contracted with nonresidents lawfully engaged in insurance business in Malta, provided the policy is made for a term exceeding five years and is not linked to equity or property units. Maintenance remittances to beneficiaries abroad are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evidence of hardship; authorized banks may also ap- prove moderate remittances for family living expenses. Travelers may export Malta banknotes and coins up to £M 25 for each person. Exports of foreign currencies may be made by resident travelers up to £M 250 for each person and by nonresident travelers up to the amount brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war materials are prohibited and, with the exception of some 80 items that may be exported freely, all other exports are sub- ject to specific licensing. The proceeds of exports are subject to surrender within six months of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in any amount in Malta and other currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over receipts. Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank, and payments of a capital nature in such currencies require prior approval. Applications for out- ward direct investment by residents of Malta and for direct investment in Malta by nonresidents are consid- ered on their merits. The purchase of real estate in Malta is controlled by the Immovable Property (Acqui- sition by Non-Residents) Act, 1974. This Act, which is administered by the Ministry of Finance, prohibits the acquisition of immovable property in Malta by nonresi- dents, with the exception of certain special cases which would be mainly related to the economic development of Malta. Purchases of all securities issued outside Malta require prior permission from the authorities. However, the Central Bank has delegated to authorized dealers the authority to approve the acquisition of secu- rities abroad up to the equivalent of £M 500 a person a calendar year by resident persons over 18. Purchases of personal real estate situated outside Malta require prior exchange control approval and are not normally permitted to resident nationals. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up resi- dence outside Malta normally are allowed to transfer all their assets to their new country of residence; in certain circumstances, however, restrictions may be 324 placed on foreign assets acquired, other than by way of income or capital appreciation, while the person has been resident in Malta. Maltese nationals who emigrate may transfer abroad up to £M 5,000 for each family; any excess amount is normally released four years after the date of departure on application to the Central Bank. Banks, other than those licensed to borrow and lend outside Malta only, are restricted in the acquisition of net foreign assets. Gold Malta has issued six gold coins which are legal tender. Residents other than authorized banks and reg- istered jewelers are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than coins or jewelry, at home or abroad. Residents may freely purchase, sell, and hold any gold coins. The import of gold coins for numis- matic purposes is controlled to ensure that such coins are genuinely for numismatic purposes. A specific im- port license is required for imports of gold coins, gold bullion, and manufactured or semimanufactured arti- cles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized importers are permitted to import gold (bullion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the mone- tary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import duty. Changes during 1974 During the year a number of items were added to the list of commodities requiring specific import licenses. January 7. The Central Bank delegated to authorized dealers the power to approve new outward portfolio investment by resident private individuals, within the limits previously applied by the Central Bank. At the same time, the minimum qualifying age for the invest- ment facility was reduced from 21 years to 18 years. January 30. The Central Bank began to compute the exchange rate of the Malta pound on the basis of a revised formula. While the Malta pound continued to be pegged to a "basket" of currencies rather than to any single currency, the U.S. dollar now was included di- rectly in this basket. March 20. The Minister of Finance and Customs, acting under the terms of Section 38 of the Central Bank of Malta Act, 1967, determined the par value of the Malta pound to be 2.13281 grams of fine gold, and, on the recommendation of the Central Bank and with the consent of the Prime Minister, suspended the par value of the Malta pound. August 5. The Immovable Property (Acquisition by Non-Residents) Act, 1974 prohibited, with minor ex- ceptions, the acquisition of immovable property on the Maltese Islands by nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NOTES 1 With effect from January 7, 1975 the Central Bank also quoted the deutsche mark, the Italian lira, and the U.S. dol- lar. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Malta pound. 3 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and study, residents are defined as physical persons who are at the time living in Malta in the normal course and either have so lived for at least three years or intend to continue so living for at least three years. MALTA 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Mauritania has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the Ouguiya, which is defined as equivalent to 0.016 gram of fine gold. Since January 22, 1974 the Central Bank of Mauritania has quoted daily buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar and 16 other currencies1 on the basis of variations in the relationship between the U.S. dollar and selected European currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Central Bank and the Minister of Finance. The former also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania, inward direct investment and all outward investment, the purchase abroad of domestic and foreign securities, and the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for place- ment in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the Central Bank, which in turn has delegated some ap- proval authority to authorized banks. The Central Bank is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Adminis- tration, any information necessary to compile the bal- ance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or, in some cases, through the Postal Administration (PTT). Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Department in the Minis- try of Commerce which also issues import certificates. All import licenses and import certificates require ex- change control approval by the Central Bank. The Na- tional Import and Export Corporation (SONIMEX) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, tea, rice, and certain textiles and over exports of gum arabic. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel, Portugal, and South Af- rica are prohibited. Settlements with other countries usually take place in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two kinds of nonresident accounts in do- mestic currency: Convertible Accounts, which may only be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currency or transfers from other Convertible Accounts, and Internal Nonresident Accounts, which may be credited with domestic banknotes. Convertible Ac- counts may be debited without Central Bank approval for any payment inside or outside Mauritania. 326 Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israel, Portuguese, and South African origin and /or provenance are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited from any source for reasons of health or public policy. Imports from all non-EEC countries require an import license, while imports from EEC countries need an import certificate. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in import transactions. SONIMEX has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. Import transactions relating to countries of the French Franc Area must be domiciled with an autho- rized bank when their value exceeds UM 20,000, and import transactions relating to other foreign countries when their value exceeds UM 4,000. After the approval of the Central Bank has been obtained, the import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the Central Bank. There are special arrangements for im- ports in border areas. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to other countries are subject to the approval of the Central Bank, which has delegated its approval authority for certain speci- fied payments and subject to conditions laid down in circulars, to authorized banks. Basic exchange allocations have been established for various types of invisibles. For tourist travel, residents traveling to any foreign country may obtain an annual exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to UM 10,000 a person (UM 5,000 for children under ten). There are special arrangements for travel to neigh- boring countries. The use of all travel allocations must be marked in a personal travel exchange booklet (cornet de change). The transfer of savings from salaries by foreigners working in Mauritania is permitted up to varying percentages, according to family status. Travel- ers are not allowed to take out domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Only holders of importer-exporter cards are permitted to engage in export transactions. Export transactions to all countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds UM 5,000. Exporters must sign an undertaking to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds (engagement ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution de change). Exports to all countries require an export license and the approval (visa) of the Central Bank. Export proceeds must be surrendered not later than the due date of the payment, which must not normally be more than 60 days after shipment. Exports of gum arabic are the monopoly of SONIMEX. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. All amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services and all income earned abroad from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date of the payment. The importa- tion of domestic banknotes by travelers is prohibited. Capital Transfers of capital between Mauritania and Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Mauritania and all foreign countries are subject to exchange control; capital trans- fers to all countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts normally are permitted freely, although the subsequent investment of the funds in Mauritania may require approval, as indicated below. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mauritania, and over the solicitation of funds in Mauritania for placement in foreign countries; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. All investments abroad by residents of Mauritania require prior authorization by the Central Bank. For- eign direct investments in Mauritania2 and Maurita- nian direct investments abroad,3 must be declared to the Central Bank before they are made. The Central Bank has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which it may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to it. The full or partial liquidation of inward or outward investment also re- quires declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Mauritanian invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Mauritania, must be reported to the Central Bank within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are de- fined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as di- rect investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Mauritania requires prior authoriza- tion by the Central Bank. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with loans MAURITANIA backed by a guarantee from the Mauritanian Govern- ment. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Central Bank. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans con- tracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed UM 10 million for any one borrower and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Central Bank if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Furthermore, such prior approval is required for the repayment of all amounts borrowed abroad prior to the publication of Decree No. 72.249 of November 27, 1972. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Domestic bank credit is restricted. The Investment Code (Law No. 71-028 of Feb- ruary 2, 1971) provides for various benefits for private investments in Mauritania. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Mauritania. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Central Bank. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Central Bank, and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Changes during 1974 January 1. By virtue of agreements signed with these companies in January and February, the export pro- ceeds of MIFERMA and SOMIMA became subject to repa- triation and surrender. Each was entitled to a monthly foreign exchange allocation and their exchange require- ments in excess of these allocations would be approved upon application. January 15. Central Bank Circular No. 74 /1 pro- vided that authorized banks must buy from and sell to the Central Bank the full amounts of foreign currency negotiated during the day for the account of their cus- tomers, instead of only the balance of such transac- tions, as previously. January 22. The fixed relationship between the ou- guiya and the French franc of UM 1 = F 0.10 was discontinued. Henceforth a daily rate was set for the U.S. dollar, on the basis of variations of the quotations of the U.S. dollar in terms of a "basket" of European currencies. Exchange rates for 16 other currencies, including the "basket" currencies, were based on quotations for the U.S. dollar and the currencies 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA concerned in international markets. For banknotes, the previous fixed rates for French francs, CFA francs, and Mali francs were maintained. January 24. Law No. 74.022 concerning financial relations with foreign countries and their statistical registration replaced Law No. 73.137 of June 18, 1973 concerning financial relations with foreign countries. The new law consolidated the existing regime. It restated the requirement of prior approval by the Central Bank for all foreign exchange transactions (unless such authority was specifically delegated to the banks) and the surrender requirement for all foreign claims. The import and export of Mauritanian banknotes and coins and the holding by residents of any means of payment in foreign currencies was prohibited without the prior authorization of the Central Bank. April L The Central Bank changed the transfer and exchange commissions that authorized banks could charge to 1.5 per cent and 0.25 per cent, respectively. May 28. Ministry of Finance Circular No. 4 regulated exports. All exports required prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce; the approval of the Central Bank; registration of the export transaction with an authorized bank if the transaction exceeded UM 5,000; an undertaking by the exporter to repatriate the foreign exchange proceeds; and the ap- proval of that undertaking by the authorized bank. June 21. The limits on salary remittances established on August 8, 1973 by Instruction No. 6 were in- creased. The period within which such transfers could be made was extended from one month to six months after receipt. June 25. Central Bank Circular No. 74 /3 specified the provisions subject to which authorized banks could from July 1 open and conduct Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currency on behalf of foreign em- bassies, etc. July 1. Central Bank Circular No. 74 /4 regulated transfers in respect of transportation by air. Resident travelers could freely pay in ouguiyas their air passages to any destination, including round-trip tickets. July 2. Central Bank Note No. 74/17 introduced a more flexible system for the sale of foreign exchange for business travel, consisting of nine annual limits that ranged from the equivalent of UM 50,000 to the equiv- alent of UM 350,000, depending on the applicant's business turnover. The basic allocation (a person a trip) was fixed at the equivalent of UM 3,000 for each day abroad, up to a maximum of UM 40,000 a trip. Appli- cants were required to use a foreign exchange booklet for business travel. November 28. The nationalization of MIFERMA was announced. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, CFA francs, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Mali francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Including those made by companies in Mauritania that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Mauritania of foreign companies. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Mauritania and those made by branches or subsidiar- ies abroad of companies in Mauritania. 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.159961 gram of fine gold per Mauritian Rupee. No transactions take place at the par value. The official rate for sterling is Mau Re 1 = £ stg. 0.075, and the currency issuing authority, the Bank of Mauritius, maintains fixed rates for sterling of Mau Rs 13.312/3 buying, and Mau Rs 13.362/3 sell- ing, per £ stg. 1. Consequently, the Mauritian rupee is floating with sterling, and all exchange transactions except those in sterling or currencies linked to sterling take place at fluctuating rates. Commercial banks are authorized to deal with customers in sterling at spot rates based on the rates of the Bank of Mauritius and in other foreign currencies1 at rates based on the Lon- don market rates. The commercial banks' rates for ster- ling on December 31, 1974 were Mau Rs 13.25 buying and Mau Rs 13.40 selling per £ stg. 1, and for the U.S. dollar the rates were Mau Rs 5.63 buying and Mau Rs 5.74 selling (for transactions in excess of US$12,000). A different effective rate results from the application of a stamp du ty of 35.70 per cent to out- ward capital transfers other than transfers of banking funds and to payments for gold coins and gold bullion. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mauritius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in turn delegated to the commer- cial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency Mauritius has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. For prescription of currency purposes Mauritius distinguishes between Sterling Area countries2 and External Account countries. Payments to residents of Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in Mau- ritius, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mauritius, in ster- ling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rho- desian currency. Special regulations apply to settle- ments with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in countries of the Sterling Area,2 may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any payments from Exter- nal Accounts held in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauri- tius. They may be debited for (1) payments from resi- dents of the Sterling Area to residents of Mauritius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities in the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; and (4) the cost of pur- chase of any Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be credited with (1) authorized pay- ments by residents of Mauritius; (2) payments from Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permis- sion of the exchange control authorities of the appropri- ate Sterling Area country has been given; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian cur- rency) or gold by nonresidents of Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any pay- ments to residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any transfers to other Ex- ternal Accounts; and (4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or gold. In addition to the above, there are also Blocked Ac- counts to which are credited funds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mauritius realized from in- vestments made by them prior to April 5, 1966, as well as funds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Mau Rs 67,000. Such accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Mauritius that have been spe- cifically authorized for credit to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transactions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, with approval, be invested in Mauritius. Upon the realization of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required regard- less of origin. All other goods may be freely imported under open general licenses granted to individual trad- ers when imported from countries of the Sterling Area (as defined before June 23, 1972), but most of these goods require a specific license when imported f rom non-Sterling Area countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requirements. The issue of a general or specific license automatically carries w i th it ex- change control authority to make the corresponding import payments, subject to compliance w i th the pre- scription of currency regulations. Certain impo r ts are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain l im i ts, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks w i thout prior reference to the exchange control au thor- ities. The basic travel allowance for tourist purposes is the equ iva lent of £400 a person a year for travel to any coun try except Rhodesia. The allowance for business travel is the equ iva lent of £250 a tr ip or £20 a day up to a maximum of £1,000 a trip for travel to countries of the Sterling Area (as defined before June 23, 1972), or up to a total of £750 a trip for travel to countries outside the S ter l ing Area. Applications for exchange for business travel are examined by the Bank of Mauri- tius when exceeding the equivalent of £250 a person a trip. There are also established limits for payments and t ran s fe rs to Sterling Area countries and to non -S te r l ing Area countries in respect of fam i ly support, salary re- mittances by non-Maur i t ian nationals, t rade commis- sions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, adve r t is ing outside Mau r i t iu s, royalties, profes- sional and technical services, education, and leave sala- r ies. App l ica t ions for amoun ts exceeding the s tanda rd allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Residents and nonresident travelers may take out Mau Rs 350 in domestic cu r rency. Resident trave lers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident trave lers may take out any foreign currency declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Also prohibited, unless permission is obtained f rom the Financial Secre- tary, are exports of (1) articles made wholly or partially of gold, p l a t i n um, or silver; (2) diamonds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles moun ted w i th these; and (3) wo rks of a r t. All exports valued at more 330 than Mau Rs 1,000 and all exports of food valued at over Mau Rs 50 require a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The Mauritius Sugar Syndi- cate is the sole exporter of sugar, and a 6-10 per cent export tax is levied on sugar exports. All export pro- ceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. How- ever, permission may be given to large export-import companies to retain export proceeds for a reasonable period of time to meet payments for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than Mauritian rupees must be offered for sale to an autho- rized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported, but not more than Mau Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inwa rd transfers of capital are not restricted. Out- ward transfers of capital are subject to certain restric- tions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country in the Sterling Area2 on payment of a 35.70 per cent stamp du ty (a d u ty of 34 per cent plus a surcharge of 5 per cent thereon); they may, subject to permission, which is free ly granted, also transfer a reasonable amount of capital to External Account Area countries on payment of the s tamp du ty. Nonresidents require permission to t ran s fer capital to any coun try; transfers are subject to the payment of stamp du ty at the rate of 35.70 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the Sterling Area by a resident of the Sterling Area, require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities of the Sterling Area coun t ry concerned. Foreign-owned companies may free ly transfer abroad dividends, prof- its, and interest on capital. Permission for the repatria- tion of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the coun try of ori- gin, but is, in normal circumstances, given for capital b rought in on or a f ter that date. Proceeds from the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repatriated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of ex- change and free of s tamp d u t y, the equivalent of Mau Rs 67,000 from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any coun t ry except Rhodesia; this facility is available upon redesignation as a nonresident, which occurs upon depar ture. The balance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for an indefinite period to a Blocked Account; any releases that may be approved for trans- fer abroad are subject to payment of the 35.70 per cent s tamp d u t y. Persons em igra t ing from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addi- tion to the emigration facilities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold in the form of numismatic coins (including a commemorative gold coin of Mau Rs 200 issued by Mauritius in 1971) or personal jewelry and ornaments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the monetary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler, are prohibited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to the 35.70 per cent stamp duty. Imports of certain jewelry are subject to temporary customs surcharges. Changes during 1974 January 18. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel was increased from £250 to £400 a person a calendar year for travel to any country except Rhode- sia. MAURITIUS June 1. Government Notice No. 80 made certain food items subject to specific import license. June 4. Act No. 39 of 1974 raised one of the two rates of temporary additional import du ty ("special levy on the ordinary duty") from 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the applicable fiscal duty and customs duty, with im- mediate effect; the 10 per cent rate on textile products remained unchanged. July L The export tax on sugar was increased. August 20. Mauritius agreed to subscribe to the Fund's Voluntary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. NOTES 1 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define for- eign currencies as all currencies other than the Mauritian rupee. 2 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define the Sterling Area as comprising the United Kingdom, the Chan- nel Islands, the Isle of Man, and the Republic of Ireland. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0589330 gram of fine gold per Mexican Peso, corresponding to Mex$12.50 == US$1. On December 31, 1974 the official rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, were Mex$ 12.49 buy- ing, and Mex$12.51 selling, per US$1. Banks may freely engage in exchange transactions between the peso and any other currency. There are limited forward exchange facilities for transactions between Mexican pesos and foreign currencies. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to formally accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with payments agreements with Hungary, Poland, and Yu- goslavia, payments for direct commercial transactions and related expenses with those countries handled through the Mexican banking system may, with the prior authorization of the Bank of Mexico, be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Payments between Mexico and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be settled through ac- counts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mex- ico and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. A similar arrangement exists for payments between Mexico and the Dominican Republic. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos or Central American curren- cies in accordance with the reciprocal credit agreement between the central banks of those countries. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. A few imports are prohibited. All imports must be accompanied by an exporter's declaration of shipment. For a considerable number of items, import licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such li- censes may be subject to quantitative restriction, but most of the items concerned do not require an import license when they originate in LAFTA countries. For specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (per- misos abiertos) may be granted that permit limited im- portation during a specified period of time, such as six months or a year; subject to screening of the importer's performance, repeated renewal of the license is possible. 332 Applications for import licenses are screened by the Ministry of Industry and Trade with the aid of commit- tees composed of importers, producers, and consumers. Import licenses for certain goods, including leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and automobiles and their spare parts, are subject to an overall annual limit. Imports of certain goods for which licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required (such as unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewelry, radio and television sets, and whiskey, wines, and other liquors) are subject to the payment of a fee of usually between 1 per cent and 6 per cent of the value of the import transactions, the proceeds of which are allocated to a fund handled by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute (IMCE) for the promotion of exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are subject to prior approval by the Mexican Foreign Trade Institute; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is available at a price differential of 15-20 per cent. Many nonessential imports are subject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem, the proceeds of which accrue to an export trust fund the Federal Government has established in the Bank of Mexico. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The con- tracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on prop- erty of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mex- ico, is permitted with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange con- trol requirements apply to the proceeds of exports. Re- bates of indirect taxes by means of a system of CEDIs (certificados de devolution de impifestos) are granted on exports of certain manufactured and semimanufactured products (and of certain services), provided that at least 50 per cent of the direct cost of production is of Mexi- can origin and that they are on a list of products autho- rized by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dents. New foreign investment in the capital of Mexi- can banking or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Certain sectors, such as petroleum, basic petrochemical production, radioactive minerals, electricity and nuclear energy, certain mining activities, railroads, and telecommunications, are reserved to gov- ernment investment. Investment in a number of activi- ties is reserved exclusively for Mexican individuals or corporations (radio and television, the public transpor- tation system, forestry, etc., as well as any other areas specified by the Federal Government), while new in- vestments in other sectors must have a majority partici- pation of Mexican capital. Foreign investments in Mexico must be registered with the National Foreign Investment Register in the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Applications by foreign physical or juridical persons to acquire more than 25 per cent of the capital of a Mexican company, or over 49 per cent of its fixed assets, require the prior authorization of the competent ministry, after the National Foreign Investment Com- mission has granted the necessary registration. All ac- quisitions of stock in Mexican companies by foreign physical or juridical persons must be registered within 30 days with the National Foreign Investors Registry. Borrowing abroad (or within Mexico in foreign cur- rency) by the public sector and by state-owned banks is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. Borrowing abroad by private banks is subject to approval by the Bank of Mexico. Gold Domestic transactions in nonmonetary gold are lim- ited to purchases of gold bars by licensed goldsmiths or manufacturers. With this exception, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Mexico or abroad. The Bank of Mexico does not buy or sell gold in transactions with private banks, individ- uals, or firms. There is a 15 per cent tax on "first hand" sales of newly mined gold. Producers of gold undertak- ing not to sell it at prices exceeding international quota- tions plus normal marketing costs are eligible for an automatic subsidy corresponding to 33 per cent of the tax, when selling newly mined gold in Mexico to private banks reselling such gold to licensed goldsmiths or manufacturers in Mexico. Exports of gold are prohib- ited unless they are made by the Bank of Mexico. Im- MEXICO ports of gold are permitted and when licensed by the Bank of Mexico are free of customs duty. Changes during 1974 January 1. A reciprocal credit agreement signed with the Dominican Republic on December 3, 1973 came into operation. January 3. The General Law of Credit Institutions and Auxiliary Organizations of July 10, 1951, was amended. The acquisition of 25 per cent or more of the capital of a credit institution or of any organization controlling a credit institution required the prior autho- rization of the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. The establishment of branches of foreign banks or fi- nancial institutions in Mexico also required authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit. Mexican banks and financial institutions required prior authorization to acquire any shares of, or to participate in the share capital of, foreign banks. February 12. Regulations issued on December 29, 1973 for the establishment of a National Foreign Inves- tors Registry came into effect. Any foreign physical or juridical person acquiring stock in a Mexican company, whether on a stock exchange or otherwise, and any Mexican company selling its shares to a foreign physi- cal or juridical person, were required to register the transaction within 30 days thereafter. March 16. Banks and financial institutions intro- duced new instruments to attract savings. Certificates of deposit were created for peso time deposits for terms of three and six months. May 13. Banks and financial institutions increased their interest rates on peso time deposits, including those of nonresidents. September 27. Banks were permitted to increase by 1Y2 per cent the interest rate on U.S. dollar time depos- its received from nonresidents or from persons resident in the northern border area. November 18. Banks were permitted to increase the interest rate on U.S. dollar deposits received from non- residents and from persons resident in the northern border area to 7 per cent per annum plus an additional amount, exempt from income tax, of up to 1.5 per cent, 2 per cent, or 2.5 per cent, respectively, for time depos- its of 90-95 days, 180-185 days, and 12-24 months. December. A 50 per cent export tax was imposed on crude oil. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.175610 gram of f ine gold per Moroccan Dirham. However, no transactions take place at the par value. The Bank of Morocco quotes daily buy ing and selling rates for the French f ranc; its rates for the f r anc is determined in the l ight of quo ta- tions for certain ma jor currencies on the off ic ial ex- change market in Paris and tak ing in to account the geographic d is tr ibu t ion of Morocco's foreign trade transactions. The Bank of Morocco also quotes buy ing and selling rates for specified "convertible currencies,"1 based on quo ta t ions in the leading foreign exchange ma rke ts abroad and the Bank of Morocco's daily quo- ta t ion for the French f ranc. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were DH 4 .1389 buy ing, and DH 4.1607 selling, per US$1 and those for the French f r anc were DH 0.93229 buy ing, and DH 0.93509 selling, per F 1. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are cen- tralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to ma r ry (offse t) the ir purchases and sales on behalf of their private customers in each currency separately. The authorized banks must pur- chase f rom or sell to the Bank of Morocco each day, at the rates communicated to them by the Bank, the bal- ances of the ir purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not permitted so that no fore ign exchange ma rket exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of fore ign currency in exchange marke ts abroad. The Bank of Morocco also establishes buy ing and selling rates for transac t ions w i th travelers in bankno tes, t rav- elers checks, and letters of credit expressed in French francs, CFA f rancs, and the "convertible currencies"; the au thor ized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco the ir excess ho ld ings of bankno tes and replenish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Forward exchange transac- tions are not permitted. Foreign currency repatriated in the fo rm of bank or postal transfers by Moroccan workers abroad is eligible for a premium of 5 per cent payable on the dirham equ iva len t. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, an agency under the M in is t ry of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Impo rt cer t if i- cates and export licenses are issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Moroc- can Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberal- ized goods are signed by the importer h imse lf; they do not requ i re the visa of the Exchange Office unless the coun t ry of origin of the goods is not the coun t ry of 334 sh ipmen t, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, cus- toms, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Although Morocco's regulations still make a distinc- tion between the French Franc Area and the so-called area of conver t ib i l i ty, Morocco applies exchange con- trol also to transac t ions w i th the former .2 For prescrip- tion of currency purposes, countries are classified as fo l lows: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the paymen ts agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco ma in ta ins bilateral payments agree- ments;3 and (3) all other countries, the so-called area of conve r t ib i l i ty. Settlements w i th the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, w i th the exception of settlements for impor ts, in dirhams th rough French Franc Area Ac- counts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below); certain noncommercial settlements w i th Algeria and Tunisia, however, are made in dirhams, Algerian di- nars, and Tunisian d inars th rough special accounts at the three central banks. Settlements w i th the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the paymen ts agreements accounts established for this pur- pose. Impo r ts or ig ina t ing in countries in the area of conve r t ib i l i ty may be paid for on ly in "convertible cur- rencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco.1 Other settlements w i th countries in the area of conver t ib i l i ty may be made on ly in "convertible currencies" negoti- ated by the Bank of Morocco or th rough Foreign Ac- counts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as fo l lows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency by residents of countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for impo r ts (and related invisibles) f rom those countries.4 They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except bankno tes) sold to or bought f rom the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Ac- coun ts may be made f ree ly. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are re- served for residents of countries in the area of convert- ib i l i ty. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized paymen ts due to residents of countries in the area of conve r t ib i l i ty (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and w i th dirhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible curren- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ties" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of the "converti- ble currencies" negotiated by it. Transfers between For- eign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institu- tions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements;3 they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. 4. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any non- resident, are credited with funds that may not be trans- ferred abroad. These include the proceeds from the sale on the Casablanca stock exchange of Moroccan securi- ties held under foreign dossier and proceeds from the contractual or accelerated redemption of such securi- ties. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to (1) countries either in the area of convertibility or the French Franc Area or (2) the same country in the pay- ments agreement group, are permitted freely. Capital Accounts may be debited freely for (1) pur- chases of specified 5Y2 per cent, seven-year government bonds; interest and redemption proceeds are transfer- able, and the bonds are freely negotiable between non- residents; and (2) personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate relatives during visits to Mo- rocco, up to DH 150 a person a day, subject to a limit of DH 5,000 a year for each account. All other opera- tions through Capital Accounts require individual ap- proval. These include purchases on the Casablanca stock exchange of Moroccan and non-Moroccan secu- rities; purchases of Moroccan securities not quoted in Casablanca or of participation in a Moroccan firm; subscriptions to either; investments of any kind, includ- ing purchases of businesses or office buildings; lending to residents; payment of local expenses in excess of DH 5,000 during the holder's stay in Morocco; any such payments to beneficiaries other than the holder of the account or a close relative of his; any such payments from an account held by a foreign juridical person; gifts to social, cultural, or religious institutions; subscrip- tions to capital increases of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock ex- change; subscriptions at the time of issue to long-term or short-term securities with a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan public entity; custody charges and commis- sions on securities; and payment of the costs of mainte- nance, repairs, real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Subject to approval, Capital Accounts may also be debited for investments in Morocco, w i th in the framework of the 1973 Investment Code, provided that the amounts debited do not exceed 50 per cent of the investment undertaken by the nonresident or 25 per cent of the company's total capital. 5. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresi- dent funds not available for credit to any of the ac- MOROCCO counts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts re- quire approval. 6. Two Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Central Bank of Algeria and the Central Bank of Tunisia. Specified non- commercial transactions between Morocco and the two other countries concerned are settled through these ac- counts. Imports and Import Payments Imports are admitted in accordance with an annual General Import Program. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories applicable to all countries. Goods in List A are liberal- ized. Goods in List B are restricted, in some cases by a global quota, or are subject to state trading; for a large number of List B items, no quotas are established and imports are approved according to need (SB items). In principle, the importation of goods in List C is not permitted. To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import commitment {engagement d'importa- tion), which does not require administrative approval unless the goods are imported from a country other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis,5 but for goods in List B, an import license {autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation) must be ob- tained. For all imports the import title—import certificate or import commitment —must be domiciled (regis- tered) with an authorized bank, which may make pay- ments upon submission of the required documents. Import certificates require the visa of the Exchange Office before the foreign exchange is made available. Import commitments require this visa only when the country of origin and the country of shipment of the goods concerned differ or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. Import certificates must be domi- ciled within 15 days from the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import commitments must be domiciled at the time of their subscription. Special procedures are applicable to specified imports financed by foreign aid or loans. Most imports from countries in the payments agree- ment group are made in accordance with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for In visibles Payments for most current invisibles require the ap- proval of the Exchange Office upon presentation of the necessary justification; in several instances the ap- proval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the relevant import or export documents. Earnings after tax on approved nonresident invest- 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO men ts in Morocco are transferable to the investor's coun t ry of residence. The transfer of dividends on non- resident-owned shares of Moroccan companies hav ing their main office in Morocco requires the approval of the Exchange Office. Undistributed prof i ts relating to the financial year 1968 or later remain transferable in- def in i te ly. Some paymen ts are subject to limitations. A foreign employee may transfer to his coun try of origin, subject to the initial approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his mon th ly wages or salary if his fam i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco. The same percentages of their mon th ly earnings may be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in professions (except for the medical and paramedical professions), subject to a limit of DH 1,000 a mon th .6 Subject to a mon th ly limit of DH 300, the same percentages of earnings may also be transferred by foreign nationals engaged in agricul- tura l, industrial, or commercial activities, or in skilled craf ts. Foreign nationals employed in the hotel sector are authorized to transfer between 60 and 80 per cent of the ir mon th ly salaries or wages. An allocation of foreign exchange equivalent to DH 100 a person a year is granted to residents of any na t iona l i ty for travel abroad, provided that they do not make periodic trans- fers abroad. There is a special allocation for pilgrim- ages. Residents of foreign na t iona l i ty may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 2,500 for each passport a year by selling to an authorized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange (other than banknotes) from their own for- eign assets not subject to surrender requirements. For business travel by persons other than exporters a s tandard allowance of DH 150 a day is granted; exporters may be granted up to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, up to a l im it of 1 per cent of the foreign exchange surrendered dur ing the preceding year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study abroad, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 834 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Morocco; Moroc- can s tuden ts tak ing college or un ive rs i ty level courses abroad are entitled to an annual installation allowance equ iva lent to DH 1,000. For fam i ly maintenance, the Exchange Office generally gran ts a mon th ly allocation in the order of DH 250-300. The export of Moroccan bankno tes is proh ib i ted. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports may be made free ly, a l though export licenses are re- quired for a few items. All f ru i ts, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported on ly by a state trad ing agency, the Office of Ma rke t ing and Export (Office de Commercialisation 336 et d'Exportation —OCE). That Office also is in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an under tak ing to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one mon th from the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the ma tu r i ty date fixed in the commercial con- tract; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days a f ter the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immediately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from In visibles Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing f rom all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must sur- render noncommercial receipts only if the receipts re- sult from current transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. Moroccans work ing abroad must surrender such currencies within one month of re-entry, but are permitted, when leaving again, to repurchase 15 per cent of the amount surrendered (the currencies so purchased may also include French francs); they are entitled to a bonus of 5 per cent on the dirham equiva- lent of any foreign exchange repatriated in the form of bank or postal transfers. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely foreign banknotes; foreign exchange brought in in excess of the equivalent of DH 5,000 must be declared to the customs authorities. Resident travel- ers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surrendered w i th in 30 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty, as well as com- panies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Remittances in respect of the assets of emigrants and transfers of gifts are not normally approved. Exchange allocations for the trans- fer of inheritances are limited to DH 35,000 a benefi- ciary. Those for the transfer of their assets by repatriates vary w i th the length of their stay in Mo- rocco, from DH 35,000 a family with family residence of 3 to 5 years to DH 100,000 a family where the period of residence has been 15 to 25 years. New foreign investments in specified sectors of the economy may benefit from the provisions of the Invest- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment Code of August 15, 1973. The Code consists of six laws and several implementing decrees providing various tax concessions and other incentives. It guaran- tees the transfer of dividends distributed to nonresi- dents and of proceeds from the liquidation of the capital brought in by the foreign investor. Investments financed with funds held in Capital Accounts (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, above) also are eligible for the benefits of the Code; proceeds from the liquida- tion of investments financed in this manner become transferable after a minimum investment period of 5 years. Foreign investments approved under the previous Investment Code (of February 10, 1961) continue to benefit from the retransfer guarantee for the liquidation proceeds. Proceeds from the liquidation of other invest- ments are credited to Capital Accounts. Certain government bonds acquired with funds from Capital Accounts are freely negotiable between nonres- idents. All other transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Banks are permitted to engage in short-term borrowing abroad within the framework of Dahir No. 1-74-385 of August 5, 1974 and the Orders issued for its implementation. Under this facility, they may accept convertible currency funds from nonresidents for credit to Special Deposit Accounts, provided these funds are reinvested abroad in the same currency and for the same maturity period; the rate of interest paid by banks on deposits received must not exceed that received by them on the placing made for their account. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for numismatic or investment purposes. Ten different types of foreign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange, which does not, however, deal in gold bars. Imports and exports of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the Directorate of Cus- toms and Indirect Taxes, which derives its approval authority from the Minister of Finance. Every year the Minister of Finance fixes a quota for the importation of gold ingots, which is then allocated among jewelers and industrial users of precious metals. Changes during 1974 January. Notice to Importers No. 401 was pub- lished, containing the General Import Program for 1974. Its structure was essentially the same as that of the 1973 program. February 13. Imports of color television receivers (assembled) were shifted from List B to List A. March 19. Imports of many types of tractors (assem- bled) were shifted from List A to List B. April 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with Hungary, settlements with that country took place, in principle, in convertible curren- MOROCCO cies. Hungary was shifted from the payments agree- ment group to the area of convertibility. April 4. Dahir No. 1-74-130 was issued, providing for the Moroccanization by December 31, 1974 of all for- eign companies distributing refined petroleum prod- ucts in Morocco. April 23. Dahir No. 173-266 introduced certain ex- port credit insurance facilities. On April 24, three im- plementing decrees were issued, Nos. 273-298, 273-299, and 273-300. May 31. The deadline for the Moroccanization of economic activities covered by List I of Decree No. 2-73-220 of May 8, 1973 was extended by four months to September 30, 1974. This was subsequently con- firmed by Decree No. 2-74-487 of July 9. July 1. Order No. 663-74 of June 29, 1974 came into effect. The remuneration of sight deposits stemming from funds repatriated by Moroccan physical persons working abroad was fixed at 3 per cent per annum. July 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with Czechoslovakia, settlements with that country took place, in principle, in convert- ible currencies. Czechoslovakia was shifted from the payments agreement group to the area of convertibility. August 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria and Poland, settle- ments with these countries took place, in principle, in convertible currencies. Bulgaria and Poland were shifted from the payments agreement group to the area of convertibility. August 7. By virtue of Dahir No. 1-74-385 of August 5, 1974, authorized banks designated by an Order of the Minister of Finance were permitted to receive freely, from nonresident physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality, deposits in convertible foreign cur- rencies, for placing on the international capital market. Specified conditions were to be observed. Thus, the amount and maturity of the deposits and the nature of the placements had to conform to instructions issued by ministerial Orders, and the rate of interest paid by banks on deposits received could not exceed that re- ceived by them on the placement made for their ac- count. August 7. Order No. 750-74 of August 6, 1974 was published. It permitted six specified authorized banks to open freely in the names of nonresident physical or juridical persons of foreign nationality, upon the re- quest of such persons, accounts denominated in foreign currencies and to be called Special Deposit Accounts. These accounts could be opened both for sight deposits and for time deposits with a maturity of 1 to 24 months. In either case, the minimum deposit was equivalent to US$500,000. Time deposits had to be reinvested on the international capital market, for their full amount and for the same maturity, in the form of time deposits denominated in the currency received. October 7. It was announced that special payments facilities would be made available to poor countries purchasing Moroccan phosphates. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Italian lire, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. 3 People's Republic of China, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Mali, and U.S.S.R. 4 Imports from the French Franc Area, unless covered by special credit arrangements, must be paid for with French francs purchased from the Bank of Morocco. 5 C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. 6 For all wages, salaries, and professional earnings, mon th ly transfers which exceed by more than DH 100 the amount transferred in June 1974 require prior authorization by the Exchange Office. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0808408 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee. On February 20, 1973 a central rate was established of NRs 12.7390 = SDR 1, corre- sponding at the time to NRs 10.56 = US$1, and Nepal avails itself of wider margins. The Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank) maintains fixed buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars and Indian rupees as follows: NRs 10.50 buying, and NRs 10.60 selling, per US$1, and NRs 139.00 buying, and NRs 139.15 selling, per 100 Indian rupees. Daily rates are quoted for Austra- lian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Different effective exchange rates arise from the opera- tion of an Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coins, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of repre- sentatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank and the Minis- tries of Finance, Foreign Affairs, and Industry and Commerce, prepares an annual foreign exchange bud- get for foreign currencies other than the Indian rupee and excluding transactions with the clearing countries. Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, except payments for certain speci- fied invisibles that require authorization from the Ne- pal Rastra Bank. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. All exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Rastriya Banijya Bank. Within Nepal there are 68 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. All import and export transactions with payments agree- ment countries, as well as all barter trade, are con- ducted through a state trading agency, the National Trading Ltd. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries with which no pay- ments agreement is in force and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Payments for imports from India normally are settled in Indian rupees, but the Nepal Rastra Bank sometimes makes convertible currencies available for sucn imports at the recommendation of the Ministry of Finance. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the con- vertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nepal has bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia, the People's Republic of China, Pakistan, and Poland; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. The agreement with Pakistan is inoperative. Nonresident Accounts The Nepal Rastra Bank permits nonresidents upon request to open "convertible rupee accounts" with Nep- alese banks, the balances of which may be freely trans- ferred abroad. Indian nationals are allowed to open current accounts in Indian rupees with Nepalese banks. Foreign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be recon- verted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those originating in In- dia or the Tibet region require import licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vege- table oil, margarine, animal fat, beef, arms and ammu- nition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wireless transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of August 13, 1971, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between them- selves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may in principle be imported freely (although some are sub- ject to temporary import licensing in order to prevent their re-exportation), and reimbursement of tax is made by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal on direct imports from Indian manufacturers of commodities subject to excise duty in India. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than India are considered on their merits; any application must, however, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget. Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' ex- change entitlements are, within the limits of their enti- tlement, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below); the entitlements are transferable and may be used by other holders. Many imports payable in convertible currencies and most government imports are effected through state trading agencies, mainly the National Trading Ltd. and the Agricultural Input Corporation. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Certain imports from all sources are subject to im- port surcharges. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian rupees, but for purchases of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the payment must be indicated. Payments for freight and insurance are given the same treatment as the re- lated import payments. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed as recom- mended by a panel of doctors; students studying at their own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$2,160 a year for board and lodging, while payments for tuition fees are allowed as required. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essentiality of the trans- action and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepa- lese and Indian currency may be taken out freely to India by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the ex- port of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian bank- notes may not be taken out by residents without per- mission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; how- ever, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver, and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffaloes, and rhi- noceros horns are prohibited. There is also a temporary prohibition on exports of oilseeds and edible oils. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not permit- ted, and re-exports to any destination of goods im- ported from India are prohibited.1 All other goods, except rice, may be exported freely to India. All exports to other destinations require export licenses. The Jute Development and Marketing Corporation has a mo- nopoly over exports of raw jute. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian ru- pees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buying rate of ex- change, within six months of shipment. The exporter receives from the Nepal Rastra Bank an exporters' ex- change entitlement corresponding to a specified pro- portion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the official rate for the import of goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. Entitlements are negotiable. Exporters engaged in bilateral trade (i.e., the Na- tional Trading Ltd. when selling to countries with which Nepal maintains payments agreements) are granted entitlements corresponding to 100 per cent of their export earnings; in principle, 40 per cent of these earnings may be used for imports of their choice from the partner country concerned, while the remaining 60 340 per cent must be used to import specified commodities from the partner country concerned. When exports are made to convertible currency countries, exchange entitlements are granted at ratios ranging from 20 per cent for raw jute to 90 per cent for stainless steel goods. At least 25 per cent of the entitle- ment must be used to purchase goods on a list of devel- opment goods, up to 50 per cent may be used to purchase specified essential goods, while up to 25 per cent may be spent on any type of goods. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign ex- change proceeds derived from transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official rate of exchange. Nepa- lese and Indian currency may be brought in from India only, and by Nepalese and Indian nationals only; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents, but residents and Indian nationals must declare any foreign banknotes they bring in. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but offi- cial exchange is not normally provided for capital re- mittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except investment specifically exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any banking or finan- cial institution incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. The Industrial Enterprise Act, 1974 provides certain incentives for foreign investment in Nepal. Foreign in- vestors who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the foreign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the principal; if the exchange situation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are remittable. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. No import licenses for gold are issued under the Exporters' Exchange Entitlement Scheme. Imports of gold from any country other than India require a license and are subject to an import du ty of NRs 6.65 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the monetary authorities and require prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL do not require a license but are subject to sales tax at 10 per cent. Changes during 1974 January 3. Rice exports were made conditional on the sale to the Government, at fixed prices, of 25 per cent of exporters' stocks. Procedures for issuing rice export licenses were simplified. May 31. A new trade and payments agreement with the People's Republic of China was signed. June 21. The stand-by arrangement with India was renewed. July 1. Restrictions were placed on the import of certain items from India in order to prevent their re-export; items that henceforth required an import li- cense included raw jute and mica. July 16. The Industrial Enterprise Act, 1974 came into force. It replaced the Industrial Enterprise Act, 1961. August 6. The export of oilseeds and edible oils was prohibited. October 22. The central bank quoted daily rates for the Australian dollar. NOTE 1 Under the Trade and Transit Treaty with India, national origin for manufactured products is defined in terms of the import content of the ex-factory value. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.245489 gram of f ine gold per Netherlands Guilder. On September 17, 1973, the Netherlands established a central rate of f. 3.35507 = SDR 1, corresponding at the time to 0.264874 gram of f ine gold per Netherlands guilder, and avails itself of wider margins. A maximum margin of 2V4 per cent is maintained for exchange rates in the official market between the Ne ther lands guilder and the Danish krone, the deutsche ma rk, the Norwegian krone, and the Swedish krona; margins of IV2 per cent either side of the cross-parity are observed for the Belgian f ranc and, by implication, the Luxembourg f ranc (BF /L ux F 100 = f. 6.89531). No announced margins are ma in ta ined for other currencies.1 The authorized banks' buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were f. 2.5065 and f. 2.50775, respectively, per US$1. Authorized banks are free ly permitted to buy and sell convertible and inconvertible currencies, both spot and fo rw a rd, against convertible currencies, inc lud ing guilders on Convertible Guilder Accounts, and incon- vertible currencies; they are free to deal w i th residents and nonresidents, whe ther banks or nonbanks. For- ward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period nor is an unde r ly ing transaction required. Resi- dents are permitted to conclude spot transactions w i th other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions for any period with authorized banks. Nonbank residents are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on application are permitted to hold such accounts (normally demand deposits only) in their own names with banks abroad; overdraf ts on these accounts are not allowed. The Kingdom of the Netherlands formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Transactions w i th the Netherlands Antilles and Suri- nam are subject to the same exchange controls as trans- actions with other countries. Vis-a-vis any th ird countries with which payments agreements might be in force, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Nether- lands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Af- fairs, Finance, Economic Affa irs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated of- fices, under directives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital 342 transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are transit trade transactions, except those in strategic goods and scrap, which are licensed by the CDIU.2 All commercial banks of any importance are authorized to hand le foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. For all payments to, or receipts from, non- residents exceeding f. 1,000, nonbank residents have to indicate, by subm i t t ing an exchange control form, the na ture of the unde r ly ing transaction as well as the cur- rency and amount paid or received.3 Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held w i th an authorized bank in the Nether- lands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. There are special regulations, how- ever, for paymen ts in respect of certain direct imports from Egypt.4 All financial transactions, whether direct or indirect, between the Netherlands and Rhodesia are prohibited unless a license is granted by the Nether- lands Bank. Since there are no bilateral payments agreements, all foreign countries are included in the "convertible guil- der area." Payments to countries in the convertible guil- der area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Re- ceipts from countries in the convertible guilder area may be obtained in any convertible currency or in guil- ders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below); however, re- ceipts may also be collected in other currencies, pro- vided that the amounts received are deposited with the Netherlands Bank or an authorized bank. Payments between residents may be made freely in any foreign currency, provided that the amount in- volved is debited to a foreign currency account in the Netherlands or abroad and is credited to a foreign currency account in the name of the beneficiary w i th an authorized bank in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts The principal nonresident guilder accounts are Con- vertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with trans- fers from other Convertible Guilder Accounts, with permitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible cur- rencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of foreign currencies. Balances may be transferred to any other nonresident account. However, Convertible Guilder Accounts may not be debited for the purchase of Netherlands treasury paper or guilder bank acceptances; they may not be credited with interest on guilder demand deposits,5 and may be subject to a negative interest charge. No time or savings deposits may be established on Convertible Guilder Accounts.6 If held by residents of Rhodesia, Convert- ible Guilder Accounts may not be debited or credited without special licenses, which are granted only for the exceptional cases referred to in the relevant UN Reso- lution. Imports and Import Payments Imports from the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union are free from import licenses. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for imports originating in Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of un- known origin. In addition, import licenses are required for a limited number of products mainly from the agri- cultural and textile sectors. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Most im- ports from Eastern European countries are formally liberalized. Commodities corresponding to some 19 tariff headings or subheadings are subject to quantita- tive restriction when originating in Japan. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to import levies that have replaced all previous barriers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of most other agricultural and livestock products, some of which are subject to variable import levies. Imports of cattle and beef from "third" countries (i.e., countries that are neither members of, nor associated with, the EEC) are suspended. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodi- ties,7 but they require prior approval from the Nether- lands Bank to accept credit for periods in excess of those traditional in the trade concerned; such permis- sion is not normally granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided in any currency and up to any amount, and the entire amount may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. A resident traveling abroad may in addition have any further amounts remitted to him through banking channels. Exchange purchased for travel purposes must not be spent for other purposes; it may be used for NETHERLANDS purchases for personal use, however. Payments for in- terest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the ap- propriate nonresident account. The export of domestic or foreign banknotes by resi- dent travelers is not subject to limitation. Nonresidents may export all unutilized negotiable instruments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Nether- lands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited; those which are permitted require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are re- quired only for a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural products, scrap of iron and steel, and certain nonferrous metals. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of ex- ports of commodities,7 but they require prior permis- sion from the Netherlands Bank to accept payment in advance of delivery where such advance payments are not traditional in the trade concerned; such permission is not normally granted. The surrender of export pro- ceeds is not obligatory, but any surrender that is made must be at the official rate. The collection of export proceeds through an authorized bank is obligatory. A license may be obtained on application, however, to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account export proceeds may be credited; bal- ances in excess of a maximum amount (generally equiv- alent to f. 10,000) must be transferred periodically to the Netherlands. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be collected through an authorized bank but need not be surren- dered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. A license may be obtained on application to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account proceeds from invisibles may be cred- ited. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlim- ited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign bank- notes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an autho- rized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins that they took with them on their outward journey; there is no limitation on the amount in Netherlands or foreign banknotes and coins that they may bring in. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the shift- ing of foreign-owned capital within the Netherlands from one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses have been granted for many types of capital transaction. Borrowing and lending abroad by bank and nonbank residents (with the exception of specified bank ing operations and of the granting of credit in respect of imports or exports of commodities) are restricted for reasons of capital market policy and, as far as borrowing is concerned, either to control the contracting of foreign debt by local authorities or for reasons of monetary and reserve policy. Apart from guilder issues on the Netherlands capital market (see below), most lending to nonresidents is liberally per- mitted. Borrowing abroad by nonbank residents is at present restricted, in principle, to amounts used for investments abroad (which is considered to include the purchase of ships and aircraft abroad). Borrowing from nonresident banks by private industry and other non- bank residents is not normally permitted, and loans from other nonresident sources (except suppliers' cred- its with a ma tur i ty customary in the trade concerned) are subject to individual approval; licenses for borrow- ing abroad from nonbank nonresidents are granted on application, provided that the funds are used for direct investment abroad or for lending to nonresidents, but the Netherlands Bank, in principle, does not permit nonbank residents to take up financial credits abroad other than loans with a fixed ma tur i ty of at least f ive years from nonresident enterprises belonging to the same concern as the borrower. There is a general license for loans up to f. 100,000 taken up by residents from nonresidents, provided that a resident in any calendar year does not borrow more than f. 100,000 from the same nonresident. A similar license has been issued for lending to nonresidents. Furthermore, a general license permits authorized banks to grant financial credits for up to 12 mon ths to nonbank nonresidents and for any period to nonresident banks; authorized banks are on application granted licenses to lend to nonbank nonres- idents for periods in excess of 12 months. Special regulations exist for borrowing and lending between head offices (in the Netherlands or abroad) of multinational corporations and their branches and sub- sidiaries; at present, the Netherlands Bank does not permit financial loans to be taken up abroad within a multinational corporation, except as indicated above. Nonbank residents are not normally permitted to pur- chase foreign treasury bills or other foreign short-term instruments. Purchases of Netherlands treasury paper and guilder bank acceptances by nonresidents, includ- ing central banks, are prohibited. Capital transactions, whether freely permitted or not, must be notified to the Balance of Payments Department of the Netherlands Bank; this is true also of all import and export credits for periods in excess of one year and of advance pay- ments in excess of f. 250,000 to be received for exports. 344 Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of non- residents are restricted. During the last ten years or so, international financial institutions and the authorities of the nonmetropolitan areas of the Kingdom of the Netherlands have been the only nonresidents allowed to make bond issues denominated in guilders. Such issues are individually licensed by the Netherlands Bank in accordance with the prospects for the domestic capital market and the balance of payments. The Neth- erlands Bank, subject to certain conditions, allows non- residents access to the debt certificate sector of the domestic capital market (the market for onderhandse leningeri). Authorized banks may on request be licensed to lead syndicates for the issue of medium-term Euro-guilder notes, the proceeds of which normally must not be spent in the Netherlands. Unless special permission to the contrary is obtained from the Netherlands Bank, authorized banks' foreign liabilities must not exceed their foreign claims, i.e., they are not allowed to maintain a negative net external position. In observing this regulation, each bank has a leeway of f. 5 million; the calculation of the net foreign position is based on the foreign position in all curren- cies, including guilders, and on the sum of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities. Subject to this limi- tation, banks may freely accept demand deposits from nonresidents, in domestic or foreign currency, as well as time deposits in foreign currency. However, subject to minor exemptions for physical persons, banks are prohibited from paying interest on nonresident-held guilder demand deposits and from accepting guilder time deposits from nonresidents. Inward direct investment by nonresidents and local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-con- trolled companies for use in the Netherlands are sub- ject to license, which is usually granted. The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of nonresident investments in industrial enterprises and other businesses established in the Netherlands is freely permitted. Nonresidents may freely purchase real es- tate in the Netherlands for personal use or investment. Direct investment abroad by residents is authorized on application. Transactions between residents and nonresidents in foreign securities and domestic securities take place at official market rates and, with minor exceptions, are unrestricted; the regulations concerning securities are not applicable to treasury bills or certificates of deposit. Residents may freely purchase officially listed securities abroad, with the exception of guilder-denominated Euro-bonds issued by nonresidents; foreign bonds de- nominated in guilders or otherwise linked to the parity of the guilder may be purchased freely only when listed on the Amsterdam stock exchange. The foreign cur- rency proceeds from securities sold abroad by residents must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or retained. The proceeds of securities sold in the Netherlands by nonresidents are transferable in any currency, irrespec- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tive of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have their securities, Netherlands or foreign, exported to them; for the exportation of listed guilder bonds an individual authorization is required, which is granted upon application. Domestic and for- eign securities held abroad by a resident are subject to a deposit requirement, but the Netherlands Bank grants exemptions on application; securities held in the Netherlands are not subject to deposit. Residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. Gifts and donations to nonresidents are free.8 Emi- grants may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. They acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have de- clared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years, and may upon departure have remitted to them their total assets in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries may be made freely in respect of inheritances from estates being dis- tributed in the Netherlands. Gold Certain prewar gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. The Netherlands Bank engages in gold trans- actions only with monetary authorities and interna- tional financial institutions. Neither the Bank nor any government agency imports or markets gold for indus- trial use. Authorized banks and other residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold (fine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Netherlands or abroad; gold held abroad, however, must be kept on deposit with the foreign correspondent of an authorized deposi- tory. Imports and exports of gold require neither ex- change licenses nor import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Domestic sales of gold coins, if legal tender in the country of issue, are free of value-added tax; those that are not legal tender are subject to value-added tax at 4 per cent. The value- added tax on medallions and commemorative coins is 16 per cent; sales of gold bars and nuggets are exempt. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses only when originating in Hong Kong, Japan, or state trading countries. Changes during 1974 January 22. The French franc ceased to be included among the currencies in respect of which the Nether- lands Bank observed margins of 2V4 per cent. The official buying and selling rates for the French franc were suspended. February 1. The bond-circuit or "O-guilder" circuit, which had obliged nonresidents to finance their pur- chases from residents of listed guilder bonds with the proceeds from nonresidents' sales of such bonds, was abolished. Its abolition was decided upon within the framework of monetary cooperation of the countries participating in the European common margins ar- NETHERLANDS rangement. At the time, the premium on the "O-guil- der" was a fraction of 1 per cent. March 4. The limit of f. 50,000 on both the amount up to which demand deposits in Convertible Guilder Accounts held by physical persons could bear interest, and on the amount up to which nonresident physical persons could establish guilder savings deposits with banks, was raised to f. 100,000. May 30. The Netherlands signed the OECD Declara- tion on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transactions. June 20. To facilitate the implementation of the in- demnity agreement with Egypt, a regulation was issued prescribing that all payments for direct imports from that country had to be channeled through the Nether- lands Bank (with the exception, as before, of payments for imports of rice, raw cotton, and crude petroleum). June 20. A revised regulation was published regard- ing the "special commission" (negative interest charge) on balances on Convertible Guilder Accounts, which was to be activated whenever circumstances would make this advisable. July 15. Medium-term export financing facilities available with the Netherlands Bank for small export transactions were increased. July 15. Imports of cattle and beef from "third" countries were suspended in accordance with a decision of the EEC Ministers of Agriculture. July 17. The import and export licensing require- ments were revoked which had been imposed in Octo- ber and November 1973 in respect of petroleum and petroleum products. September 3. The Netherlands informed the Fund that it had decided to subscribe to the Voluntary Decla- ration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. The decision was binding only for the European part of the Kingdom. On November 8 the Fund was informed that Surinam and the Netherlands Antilles also subscribed to the Declaration. September 11. The authorized banks' reporting re- quirements in respect of spot assets and liabilities in foreign currencies were simplified. They no longer had to report a maturity breakdown of their spot position. Banks henceforth were to submit to the Netherlands Bank copies of all forward exchange contracts with nonresidents. NOTES 1 The currencies quoted in the Amsterdam market include Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Merchanting transactions involving Rhodesia are prohib- ited. Most other transactions are freely permitted by virtue of general licenses granted to registered transit traders. The only merchanting transactions still subject to a specific license are purchases and sales of strategic goods and, within the EEC, of scrap. 3 With effect from January 2, 1975, the limit for exemption was increased from f. 1,000 to f. 3,000. 4 Fifty per cent of these payments are used to settle Nether- lands claims outstanding under the indemnity agreement with Egypt. 5 Balances up to f. 100,000 held by physical persons are exempt from this prohibition. 6 With the exception of savings deposits of physical per- sons, up to f. 100,000 a person. 7 Commodities are so defined as to exclude gold. 8 Charitable gifts and donations for religious purposes are included in the Netherlands definition of current payments. 346 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Antilles Guilder.l The gold content of the currency has been established at 0.411543 gram of fine gold. The central rate is Ant. f. 1.79000 per US$1, and the Netherlands Antilles avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.79 buying, and Ant. f. 1.81 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of 8/10 of 1 per cent on sales of exchange, making the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.8245 per US$1.2 The official buying and selling rates for certain other cur- rencies are set daily on the basis of rates for the U.S. dollar abroad. The Bank of the Netherlands Antilles (the central bank) deals with commercial banks at interbank rates. The Bank does not normally deal with the public. Com- mercial banks require the approval of the central bank to invest or hold foreign currency balances.3 Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the central bank. Import licenses are issued by the Depart- ment of Economic Affairs. The commercial banks are permitted by the central bank to provide foreign ex- change for most current transactions without prior ap- proval. The central bank may grant an exemption from the obligation of surrendering foreign exchange, insofar as the assets or moneys concerned were acquired from nonresidents and are not being held in favor of or on behalf of, or for the account of, third parties who are residents; the foreign exchange may then be held or used freely until further notice or until revocation by the central bank. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Neth- erlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by residents through the authorized banks in foreign ex- change must be reported to the central bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open nonresident accounts in any foreign currency. Nonresidents (including for- eign investment funds, etc., with nonresident status) are permitted to hold nonresident accounts in Netherlands Antilles guilders only if the authorized bank concerned considers that they have certain interests in the Nether- lands Antilles which render such an account desirable; balances in such accounts may not without central bank approval exceed Ant. f. 10,000. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items, such as narcotics and explo- sives, are subject to license for public policy reasons. Imports into the islands of Aruba, Bonaire, and Cura- cao of nonvacuum-packed cereals (other than rice), cer- tain wheat meal and wheat flour, cement floor and street tiles, terrazzo tiles, and chicken eggs are prohib- ited unless the Minister of Economic Affairs grants applicants an exemption; for price control purposes only, certain other commodities, including alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, Pharmaceuticals, cement, and new or used automobiles, are subject to licensing by the Department of Economic Affairs upon customs clear- ance. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Companies with nonresident status normally fi- nance their imports with their own foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are not restricted. For most types of current invisibles remittances may be made freely through the authorized banks. Licenses are required, however, for the purchase of travel exchange in excess of Ant. f. 180 a person for each day to be spent abroad and for certain personal remittances in excess of Ant. f. 2,500 each or in excess of Ant. f. 10,000 a person a year. Such licenses are freely granted when no illegal capital transfer seems to be involved. For payments representing interest on loans or net income from other investments and for amortiza- tion of loans or depreciation of direct investments, li- censes are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. Nonresidents may take with them on departure any foreign currency which they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 200 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank within six months of shipment, with the exception of export proceeds received by companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles (except those of firms with nonresident status) must in princi- ple be surrendered to an authorized bank within eight days of receipt, but in practice the public is allowed to hold foreign banknotes and coins, since the domestic 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES currency and the U.S. dollar circulate concurrently. Travelers may bring with them checks, travelers checks, or banknotes in foreign currency in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 200 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles re- quires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands; the Investment Incentives Program, as amended, provides for duty-free entry of many com- modities as well as tax facilities. New industrial compa- nies primarily engaged in exporting may be granted nonresident status by the central bank, which confers on the company concerned exemption from exchange control (except in its transactions with residents), in- cluding exemption from the requirement of surrender- ing their foreign currency receipts. Such exemption may also be granted to investment companies, patent hold- ing companies, shipping companies, and insurance companies. Outward flows of resident-owned capital are subject to control, and certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance con- tracts between residents and foreign insurance compa- nies for a minimum term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount which is fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position. Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad requires a license. Invest- ment in foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Netherlands Antilles or payable or optionally pay- able in the currency of a country other than the Nether- lands Antilles) requires a license only when exceeding Ant. f. 2,500 a transaction or Ant. f. 10,000 a person a year. Investments by residents in officially quoted foreign securities (other than shares in mutual funds, investment in which is not permitted) are licensed freely up to amounts fixed annually, depending on the foreign exchange position. In considering applications by such residents as pension funds and other institutional inves- tors, the central bank takes into account the merits of each case and, in particular, the limited opportunity for domestic investment; the bank may exert moral sua- sion, however, to discourage excessive outflows of resi- dent-owned capital. Authorized banks may freely borrow foreign cur- rency abroad from nonresidents (including residents with nonresident status), or accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents, for relending to nonresi- dents or redeposit abroad; their borrowing from non- residents for relending to residents is restricted for monetary policy reasons and banks require central bank approval to incur a net foreign liability position. Nonresidents are not normally permitted to acquire balances in Netherlands Antilles guilders. Local bor- rowing in domestic currency by nonresidents (includ- ing resident companies regarded as nonresidents for exchange control purposes) is restricted. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in the Netherlands Antilles for numismatic and investment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and autho- rized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the central bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indus- trial users. Changes during 1974 October 1. Imports of additional commodities (ce- ment floor and street tiles and terrazzo tiles) were pro- hibited unless a prior import license was obtained. November 8. The Fund was informed that the Neth- erlands Antilles subscribed to the Voluntary Declara- tion on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. NOTES 1 In the islands of Saba, St. Eustatius, and St. Maarten, the Netherlands Antilles guilder and the U.S. dollar circulate concurrently. 2 Foreign exchange purchased by resident companies with nonresident status for exchange control purposes is exempt from the exchange tax. 3 All currencies other than the Netherlands Antilles guilder are considered foreign currencies. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Dollar, corresponding to $NZ 0.892857 = SDR 1, and New Zealand avails itself of wider margins, although since July 9, 1973 no announced margins have been observed. The Reserve Bank of New Zealand adjusts the exchange rate for the U.S. dollar daily so as to maintain the effective relationship between the New Zealand dollar and the currencies of the main trading partners as at September 25, 1974. Except for the Aus- tralian dollar and the pound sterling, the rates for spot transactions in currencies quoted by the New Zealand trading (commercial) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the pound sterling is derived by crossing the U .S ./London rate quoted in New York with the New Zealand/U.S. rate. The banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were US$1.3205 and US$1.3105, respectively, per $NZ 1. The trading banks are permitted to conclude with their customers forward exchange contracts for up to 6 months to cover import transactions and for up to 12 months to cover export transactions. Forward transac- tions in Canadian dollars and pounds sterling take place at rates of exchange determined daily by the Re- serve Bank and based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. Forward exchange contracts written in U.S. dollars are concluded at the relative spot rates, adjusted in the case of contracts covering imports with a loading of US$0.0050 a month on the spot rate. The Reserve Bank provides a facility whereby trading banks may obtain day-to-day cover for their net positions in Canadian dollars, pounds ster- ling, and U.S. dollars, spot and forward. Contracts in other currencies may be covered through the London or New York foreign exchange markets, against ster- ling or U.S. dollars. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank under powers delegated to its Governor by the Minister of Finance. The Reserve Bank in turn has given discretionary authority to the trading banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remit- tances of funds overseas. The Overseas Investment Commission administers the regulations governing for- eign direct investment in New Zealand. Export and import licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Trade and Indus- try, respectively. Prescription of Currency New Zealand has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Payments to and from residents of countries other than New Zealand may generally be made or received in any foreign currency.1 Payment to and from the New Zealand currency accounts held with banks in New Zealand by banks not domiciled in New Zealand or Rhodesia generally also is an acceptable form of payment. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified ac- counts in New Zealand of residents of other countries ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settle- ment of transactions with other countries, but they may only be funded from overseas or by amounts which would otherwise be remittable from New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into differ- ent categories to which various import procedures are applied. On a value basis, about 70 per cent of all private imports are exempt from licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1974-June 30, 1975 are as follows: Category "E" (ex- empt) includes petroleum, lubricating oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, jute, many textiles, specified sporting goods, tires, and printed books which may be imported without license. In addition, certain imports of Australian origin are exempt from licensing, irrespective of the licensing cat- egory to which they belong.2 A "Basic" category com- prises items for which licenses are granted by reference to qualifying licenses issued or actual imports in a pre- vious licensing period. Category "C" licenses are granted on an individual basis on such criteria as essen- tiality, availability, and price; for some "C" items, how- ever, an initial allocation based on a previous period is provided, while applications for further licenses are considered individually. "Administrative basic li- censes" are issued automatically to ensure continuity of importation for certain regularly required goods that correspond to only part of an item code. In order to assure continuity of imports of specific items, mainly raw materials and consumer goods, in the 1974/75 program, the Government undertook that over a three-year period importers would receive licenses at least equal in value to the basic allocation for 1974/75. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the applicant's discretion. Imports from Rho- desia, however, are prohibited. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND through the use of Group Schemes (for Industry and Interchangeability Groups) that enable importers to transfer individual entitlements to a composite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to import, up to the total amount, any item or combina- tion of items in the group. "No-remittance licenses" for imports outside the Im- port Licensing Schedule may be issued in special cir- cumstances, viz., for advertising material supplied free of charge; gifts, passengers' baggage, replacement of fau l ty or damaged goods; trade samples supplied free of charge; and temporary imports. The trading banks have authority to make foreign exchange in an appropriate currency available for pay- ments in respect of all licensed imports and all imports that do not require a license. Payments for Invisibles The trading banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of jus t i fy ing documents. Payments be- yond the established limits, and for categories not in- cluded in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by jus t i fy ing documents. Banks are authorized to sell foreign ex- change for genuine foreign travel purposes without prior reference to the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 1,000 a person a mon th or part thereof, with a maximum of $NZ 4,000 a person in any 12-month period. Requests for amounts in excess of $NZ 1,000 a mon th or for a total of more than $NZ 4,000 in any 12-month period must be referred to the Reserve Bank. Larger amounts of exchange for any type of travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank, which meets all reason- able requests for genuine travel purposes. In addition to the above allocations, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell foreign currencies, without limit as to amount, to New Zealand travelers against these persons' privately held foreign funds. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is approved, subject to for- mal authentication; for dividends and interest, the ap- proval authority up to $NZ 1,500 in any 12-month period to any one remittee has been delegated to the authorized banks. Most contractual obligations in- curred in the ordinary course of business also are nor- mally approved, but each remittance requires approval and new commitments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors or overseas borrowing require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of mainte- nance a n d / or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or indi- viduals operating as members of such an organization 350 are not subject to any limitation. Allocations to indi- viduals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 500 a remitter, and applica- tions for larger amounts are considered on their merits. Any resident may freely make personal remittances up to a total of $NZ 100 a year to any destination overseas except Rhodesia, for any purpose except gambling or building up assets in the remitter's name, provided no individual remittance exceeds $NZ 20. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 50 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger than $NZ 5. Up to $NZ 4 of the permitted total may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and carry the condition that the net export proceeds must be surrendered to a trading bank in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. General export licenses valid until December 31, 1975 are is- sued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must, unless prior consent is obtained, be received within six months from the date of shipment. Exports to Rhode- sia are prohibited. Certain items classified as strategic goods may only be exported when particular require- ments have been met and subsequent to the issue of a permit to export. Temporary restrictions have been im- posed on exports of tallow and specified types of mut- ton and on exports and re-exports of sugar. Exports of beef and veal to the United States and cheddar-type cheese to the United Kingdom are subject to restraint. Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers sub- m i t t ing evidence of exportation may receive a replace- ment import license of the same value as the imported raw material or components still subject to import con- trol that are incorporated in the exported goods, as well as, subject to certain conditions being met, an addi- tional bonus license; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manufacture of goods for the home market or for export. The bonus license must not exceed the difference between the f.o.b. value of the goods exported and the c.i.f. value of imported materi- als a n d / or components used in manufacture by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas residents by New Zealand residents (including corporate bodies or- dinarily resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,3 their foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas from portfolio invest- ment are excluded from this surrender requirement. If the remuneration is in a form other than a foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand residents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is permitted, but such income is not eligible for sale in exchange for new Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign and domestic banknotes and coins, provided that any New Zealand banknotes brought in are in denominations not exceeding $NZ 5. Capital With the exception of certain capital issues outside New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings by cor- porate bodies, consents are not required in respect of capital receipts. Applications for consent to borrow abroad by companies operating in the property sector are not normally approved, unless the project involved is consistent with the Government's housing policy. While overseas borrowing by financial institutions is strictly controlled, consents are usually granted where the funds are required for industrial development pur- poses. To be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been initially transferred to New Zealand through nor- mal banking channels or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of plant or machin- ery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and capitalized profits, may be repatriated, after the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. In the case of overseas borrowing, repayments are not permit- ted within 12 months of the receipt of the proceeds. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas In- vestment Commission, under the terms of the Overseas Investment Regulations, 1974. Capital issues outside New Zealand by companies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the Overseas Investment Commission; overseas bor- rowing by such companies also requires prior approval. Forward exchange cover is provided for borrowings abroad by New Zealand companies and by foreign- owned companies but, in order to qualify, borrowings must be for a specific project which directly assists the development of New Zealand industry. In addition, forward exchange cover is for the amount of the capital sum only and is normally limited to not less than $NZ 50,000 and not more than $NZ 1 million for each project. New Zealand subsidiaries and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the Overseas Investment Commission if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whether for long-term or short-term finance; the ratio between New Zealand and overseas borrow- ing that is permitted is generally related to that between New Zealand and overseas equity holdings, and the NEW ZEALAND ceiling on local borrowing for working capital purposes by nonfinance companies that are predominantly or wholly foreign-owned or controlled is 10 per cent of the previous year's turnover. Nonresident persons or com- panies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to give notice of any offer made for such shares whenever the investment would result in the control by the offerer of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's voting capital. Emigrants to any destination other than Rhodesia may upon designation as nonresidents transfer the whole of their assets to their new country of residence. Applications for the remittance abroad of legacies from the estate of a New Zealand resident are normally ap- proved in full. The authorities do not normally make exchange available to private persons or firms for the purchase of overseas securities for portfolio investment. New Zealand Government bonds purchased overseas by New Zealand residents after September 5, 1969 may not be transferred from the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. A New Zealand resident owning overseas securities is free to sell them to overseas resi- dents for any foreign currency, which may be rein- vested in other overseas securities, surrendered, or retained at the disposal of the New Zealand resident. With limited exceptions, sales of overseas securities by one New Zealand resident to another may be made only in exchange for other overseas securities or for any overseas currency. The only overseas securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in ex- change for New Zealand currency are those of any overseas country which were registered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other documents evidencing title were issued; the purchaser must lodge the share scrip with an ap- proved depository (i.e., the Reserve Bank of New Zealand). These securities may also be sold for any overseas .currency, in which case the proceeds must immediately be remitted to New Zealand through the banking system or reinvested in other overseas securi- ties within three months and the resulting scrip depos- ited. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for numismatic purposes. Since the revocation in 1954 of the Gold Acquisition Notice, 1948, it is no longer necessary to offer gold to the Reserve Bank, and sales within New Zealand do not require Reserve Bank approval. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the Customs De- partment; such licenses are not normally granted ex- cept for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Commercial 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively, but the importation of gold coins is exempt from license. Changes during 1974 March 15. The Reserve Bank reduced permitted local borrowing by wholly or partly foreign-owned nonfi- nance companies. The ceiling on borrowing for work- ing capital purposes was set at the pre-June 1973 level of 10 per cent of annual turnover. April 4. The 1974/75 Import Licensing Schedule was announced, to become effective on July 1. Allocations would generally be 20 per cent higher than in 1973/74 and a number of items would be added to List E. Imports of automobiles would be increased by about 4,000 units. New arrangements were introduced to give an assurance to importers of specific items involving basic licenses, mainly raw materials and consumer goods, that over a three-year period they would receive licenses for the later years at least equal in amount to the basic allocation for 1974/75, unless an emergency situation were to arise. List D (comprising items of a type also produced in New Zealand for which licenses were issued only in exceptional circumstances) and the system of token licenses for severely restricted items were to be terminated on June 30, 1974. The items which were previously on List D were shifted to the "Basic" Category and Category C, and token licenses were replaced by "basic" licenses. May 20. The Overseas Investment Regulations, 1974 were made, which came into force on May 24. They consolidated and extended the provisions of the Over- seas Takeovers Regulations, 1964 and the Capital Is- sues (Overseas) Regulations, 1965, both of which were then revoked. The new regulations were administered by the Overseas Investment Commission comprising two private members appointed by the Governor-Gen- eral on the recommendation of the Minister of Finance. The Governor of the Reserve Bank, the Secretary to the Treasury, and the Secretary to the Department of Trade and Industry (or their nominees) were also mem- bers. The Reserve Bank provided the Secretariat for the Commission. May 27. The method of quoting public exchange rates was changed. (1) The spread between telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates was reduced in respect of Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. (2) Thereafter the telegraphic transfer rates fixed daily by the Reserve Bank would be outer limits and trading banks would be permitted and encouraged to quote rates within these outer limits. (3) Forward exchange charges were reduced slightly. May 30. Improvements in export incentives were an- nounced. Some affected nontraditional, unprocessed commodities only. Also, a suspensory loan scheme for agricultural and horticultural procucers outside the tra- ditional pastoral industries would be introduced. The latter came into operation on September 25. 352 May 30. New Zealand signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transactions. June 25. The Meat Board set a minimum export price for beef produced during the next two seasons. July 1. A new customs tariff came into operation. The second stage of the phasing-out of Commonwealth preferences on goods of U.K. origin began. July 26. The cost of forward cover was increased for importers and decreased for exporters. The maximum period for which the Reserve Bank would provide for- ward cover for imports was reduced from 12 to 6 months. August 16. Financial institutions, which previously had not been permitted to borrow abroad, were given permission to do so, provided the proceeds were used for industrial development purposes. August 30. Changes were announced in the arrange- ments for borrowing in New Zealand by nonfinance companies that are predominantly or wholly foreign- owned or controlled. The main change was that in assessing the amount of local borrowing permitted for such companies a lower weighting would be given to New Zealand equity where it was a minority holding as compared with ventures where there was equal or pre- dominant New Zealand shareholding. In addition, the borrowing ceiling for working capital requirements of 10 per cent of turnover would henceforth be related to the previous year's turnover rather than estimated fu- ture turnover. September 3. Installment credit restrictions were tightened for automobiles, light trucks, and motorcy- cles, in order to reduce imports of these items. September 12. It was announced that administrative measures were being taken to restrict the value of im- port licenses granted, particularly where overstocking had occurred, by a closer screening of applications. No exempt items were brought under import licensing. September 18. It was announced that the Govern- ment had arranged a five-year multicurrency revolving credit of US$400 million with a syndicate of interna- tional banks. September 18. It was announced that exporters fac- ing liquidity problems could obtain credit assistance. Banks would be able to obtain replacement funds from the Reserve Bank to the extent of discounted export bills drawn in respect of commodities broadly covered by the tax incentive for increased exports, in practice, manufactured goods and most traditional commodities other than meat and wool. September 25. The New Zealand dollar was effec- tively depreciated by approximately 6.2 per cent against the weighted basket of currencies of New Zealand's main trading partners. The Reserve Bank would continue to determine exchange rates daily by adjusting for changes in the exchange rates of the cur- rencies in the weighted basket of currencies, but with September 25, 1974 as the new base date. The new rate against the U.S. dollar was $NZ 1 = US$1.3, and that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution against the Australian dollar was $NZ 1 = $A 0.9932; the buying rates quoted by the Reserve Bank on Sep- tember 24 had been $NZ 1 = US$1.4339 and $NZ 1 = $A 0.9626. October L The Meat Board reimposed a levy on beef and veal for export. November 8. A bill to amend the legislation govern- ing petroleum prospecting and mining licenses was in- troduced. It was not enacted during 1974. December 13. It was announced that financial assis- tance to nonfarm exporters under the Export Credit Assistance Scheme would be increased. December 15. Exports and re-exports of sugar were made subject to licensing. NEW ZEALAND NOTES 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than New Zealand currency. 2 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement that came into force on January 1, 1966. 3 The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or per- sonal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whether actual or contingent); and (4) any benefit, whether by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract agreement, scheme, or transac- tion of any kind (whether or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.105237 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba, corresponding to C$7.00 = US$1. The Central Bank of Nicaragua deals with the commercial banks in U.S. dollars, the intervention cur- rency, at C$7.00 per US$1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US$1. All exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is administered by the Central Bank, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also autho- rized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and deter- m in ing any advance deposits required; no advance de- posit requirements are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convert- ible in to U.S. dollars in international markets. Pay- ments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse es- tablished by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the clearinghouse. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador for compensation through the clearinghouse in excess of 400,000 Salvadoran colones a mon th. of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but im- port transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations. All imports on credit and all prepayments for imports require ap- proval by the Central Bank, which is normally granted only for capital goods, industrial materials, and other essential goods; when payment is not being made on sight of documents, an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Central Bank. Im- ports of certain types of footwear and some pharmaceu- tical and veterinary supplies are prohibited, except when produced in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks. * Payments are usually made by sight drafts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Central Bank approval is not re- quired to open an import letter of credit. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived from properly authenticated credits ob- tained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production; such per- mission is at present limited mainly to industrial and agricultural machinery and, for certain industries, raw materials. Imports are not released from customs un- less evidence is submitted either that payment has been made through a bank (constancia de pago) or that ac- ceptance has been made through a bank {constancia de aceptacion). In the latter case, the Central Bank must also approve the importation on credit terms; this re- quirement does not apply to duty-free imports from member countries of the Central American Common Market. Most imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import sur- charge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty. Certain commodities are subject to a compensatory (selective) consumption tax irrespective of their origin. Furthermore, most commodities are subject to a 6 per cent general sales tax, whether they are imported or domestically produced. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Imports from all countries, except the other Central American countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding a commercial license from the Ministry Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign cur- rency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declaration specify- ing the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statisti- cal purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be pur- chased from a bank, with the exception stated in note 1). For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy can fix minimum export prices or temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived from in- visibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capi- tal transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general provisions of the Ex- change Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effective March 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, foreign invest- ments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the following privileges: repatriation of the registered capital; transfer of earnings, profits, or inter- est on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Commercial banks and private invest- ment companies require the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank for all borrowing abroad. Gold Residents may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicaragua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold at free market prices to buyers abroad. The Central Bank purchases gold NICARAGUA abroad for resale to domestic industrial and other us- ers. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but must be registered with the Central Bank and require prior government authorization. Commemorative gold coins were issued in 1967. Changes during 1974 January 17. The commodities that had on March 15, 1973 been added to the list of goods whose importation on credit terms could be authorized by the Central Bank, were taken off that list again. On March 21, construction materials and transport vehicles not for private use were added to the list. March 26. Decree No. 26 of 1951 was revoked which prohibited trade with socialist countries. November 16. The stamp tax of V2 of 1 per cent on sales of foreign exchange by the commercial banks to the public was abolished. Since the tax had involved a multiple currency practice, this action unified the ex- change rate structure. November 16. The 10 per cent emergency tax on traditional exports was abolished. November 16. The general sales tax applicable to most commodities, whether imported or domestically produced, was increased from 5 per cent to 6 per cent; certain services and additional goods became subject to the tax. November 16. Compensatory (selective) taxes were revised to reduce the number of rates; additional goods became subject to these taxes. NOTE 1 However, by virtue of Decree No .l-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds from bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, be- tween the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, subject to a commission from which transactions for the account of the public Treasury and transactions in banknotes and travelers checks are exempt; the commission is Yio of 1 per mill for transfers within the West African Monetary Union and 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the Union. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Niger's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Niger itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to ex- change control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Division in the Ministry of Finance which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger, and inward and outward investment. The BCEAO is autho- rized to collect, either direct or through the intermedi- ary of banks, financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Eco- nomic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry, subject to the visa of the External Finance Division, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are 356 made out by the importer himself and, when imports are payable prior to importation, are first approved by the External Finance Division. Prescription of Currency Niger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in foreign cur- rencies or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Nigeria, however, are made through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Niamey by authorized banks' foreign corre- spondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresident ac- counts of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Portugal or its overseas provinces, Rhodesia, or South Africa are prohibited. The import from any source of rice, paddy, hulled rice, wheat flour, butane gas, many types of fabrics, and certain footwear and plastic goods requires prior authorization, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except from member countries of the Common Organization of African and Mauritian States, and to imports of matches, except from countries of the West African Customs Union. Imports from France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than those mentioned may be made freely without a license or certificate. Imports from other countries re- quire either a license or an import certificate. Imports of virtually all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and EEC countries, many goods from other former OEEC countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EEC countries outside the French ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Franc Area are made under global quotas in accor- dance with an annual program that is determined each year by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Commerce, and Industry; the program generally reflects the re- quirements indicated by importers and is established in mutual agreement within a joint French-Nigerien Com- mittee. Licenses for printed or unprinted cotton fabrics and for jute bags, however, are issued in proportion to duly substantiated imports from France of a specified quantity of these goods. Goods not subject to quantita- tive restriction may be imported on an import certifi- cate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer. The Societe Nationale de Commerce et de Produc- tion du Niger (COPRONIGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include wheat, wheat flour, green tea, and certain textiles. All import transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. Niger border. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the authorized bank is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance with the import title. Import certificates require the visa of the External Finance Division if the goods are payable before importation. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Exter- nal Finance Division, which for certain transactions has delegated its powers to the authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents travel- ing on tourist trips to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Ac- count countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a trip (CFAF 50,000 for chil- dren under ten), which may be taken up twice a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remain- ing after return to Niger must be surrendered within eight days by sale to an authorized bank. The transfer of salaries of foreigners working in Niger is subject to prior approval by the External Finance Division. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, in addition to their travel allocation. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but, when traveling to a French Franc Area country outside the West African NIGER Monetary Union, must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry,2 or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000; they may also take out freely any amount of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., is- sued abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports of rice and paddy require the prior authorization of the Directorate of Economic Affairs. Exports of millet and sorghum are prohibited unless covered by a shipping document in the name of the Office des Produits Vivri- ers du Niger (OPVN). Gum arabic may be exported only by COPRONIGER. With the exception of peanuts, peanut oil, peanut cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of which require a license, all other exports to France (as defined above) and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Exports to all other countries of domestic products and imported commod- ities require a license and an exchange commitment. The due date of payments for exports to foreign countries must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. The pro- ceeds must be collected and, if the contract is denomi- nated in a non-Franc Area currency, surrendered by sale on the exchange market, within two months after the due date. All export transactions with foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their total value exceeds CFAF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area may be re- tained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Residents must surren- der within eight days of entry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movements between Niger and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward in- vestment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Niger; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities in Niger, these control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Mone- tary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. Special controls are maintained also over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Niger require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.3 For- eign direct investments in Niger4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Min- ister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of investments, whether direct or not, also requires prior declaration. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Nigerien investments abroad or foreign investments in Niger, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Niger requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Nigerien Government, and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate 358 does not exceed the "normal" market rate and that the proceeds of the loan are immediately sold on the ex- change market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of a foreign borrowing consti- tuting a direct investment is subject to the same formal- ities as the liquidation of a direct investment; the repayment of other borrowings requires authorization only to the extent that the borrowing itself was subject to prior authorization. Lending abroad is subject to prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Investment Code of July 31, 1968 (Law No. 68-24), as amended by Law No. 71-2 of January 29, 1971 and Law No. 74-18 of March 11,1974. Existing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code (Law No. 61-21 of July 12, 1961) have been maintained. The new Investment Code provides for privileged or regular treatment. The latter provides, for both new and existing enterprises, assurances, with respect to indemnities in the event of nationalization and concern- ing nondiscrimination between Nigerien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions will be granted to new investments. Privileged treatment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to na- tional economic development and falling within speci- fied categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two different regimes, the ap- proval regime and the agreement regime. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured arti- cles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when car- ried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies within predetermined margins. An official deci- sion to this effect was taken by the Council of the West African Monetary Union on January 24. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 11. Law No. 74-18 amending Law No. 68-24 and Law No. 71-2 modified the regime governing for- eign investments in Niger. March 11. Law No. 74-19 was enacted, which com- prised an Investment Code for Nigerien enterprises. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Niger also ceased to operate. The financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official exchange market and through For- eign Accounts in Francs. The relevant exchange con- trol regulations were issued in Niger on July 22 (Order No. 183/MF/SFE and Circular No. 23). April 6. Law No. 74-26 exempted gold imported for the use of manufacturing jewelers from fiscal du ty, cus- toms duty, and statistical import tax. April 24. Decree No. 74-58 conferred on COPRONIGER a monopoly over the importation of matches, tomatoes, NIGER and tomato puree. May 28. Decree No. 74-110 regulated the holding of, trading in, and exportation and importation of gold. NOTES 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de FOuest (BCEAO) and is the common cur- rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 This amount is reduced, when appropriate, by the amount sold for CFA francs and increased by the amount of foreign notes acquired in Niger by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a foreign currency account, by exchange for other foreign means of payment brought in, or by repurchase with CFA francs (such repurchase being limited to the equiv- alent of CFAF 25,000). 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Niger and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Niger. 4 Including those made by companies in Niger that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The currency of Nigeria is the Naira. On April 17, 1963 an initial par value of 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian pound was established. On February 14, 1973 a central rate was established of 1.11973 grams of fine gold per naira, corresponding at the time to ** 0.793648 = SDR 1 or 2* 0.657893 = US$1. Since April 1, 1974, however, Nigeria has followed an inde- pendent exchange rate policy. Nigeria avails itself of wider margins and the intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The Central Bank of Nigeria quotes daily rates at which it is prepared to deal in U.S. dollars and sterling with authorized dealers and the public; such dealings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar are set at V2 of 1 per cent either side of the middle rate, and those for sterling are determined on the basis of the prevailing U.S. dollar rate and the previous day's dollar/sterling middle rate quoted in London. The Central Bank does not normally publish rates for other foreign currencies.1 On December 31, 1974, the Cen- tral Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.6309 and US$1.6147, respectively, per N 1, and its buying and selling rates for sterling were £ stg. 0.6881 and £ stg. 0.6813, respectively, per £* 1. For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or forward, between them- selves and with resident and nonresident customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency for deliv- ery at a future date, provided that the transaction is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis and relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to freight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign cur- rency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to ex- ports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received within three months of shipment, or within such longer period as may have been authorized. Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in principle, for ap- proving applications for the following: copyrights; the payment of shipping and marine insurance dues; the repatriation of capital and transfer of profits to any country outside Nigeria; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nige- 360 ria by companies controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria (other than locpl bank overdrafts to pay for imports); the granting of "approved status" to nonresident investments in Nigeria (other than invest- ments in fishing, shipping, and insurance); and any dealings in foreign securities. The Central Bank of Ni- geria is the principal administrator of exchange control. Most commercial banks and acceptance houses have been appointed as authorized dealers by the Ministry of Finance and thus are empowered to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any ap- plication that does not fall within the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. Certain hotels and rest houses have also been appointed authorized buyers for the purchase of foreign currency and travelers checks from foreign visitors and Nigerians newly ar- rived in the country. All export proceeds and other proceeds in foreign currencies (except the proceeds of oil exports) are cen- tralized with the Central Bank, which supplies the au- thorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. The Central Bank allocates foreign exchange daily to authorized dealers. Allocations are determined within the framework of a foreign exchange budget, which, however, is essentially an indicative manage- ment tool rather than an allocation device. The administration of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Import Quota Allocation Committee, comprising officials of the Min- istries of Trade, Finance, Industry, and Economic De- velopment, as well as representatives of the Central Bank and the customs administration. Import licenses for petroleum products, however, are issued by the Federal Commissioner of Mines and Power. Prescription of Currency Nigeria has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Authorized payments to countries other than Rhodesia may be made in naira to an External Account in Nigeria or in any foreign currency. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhode- sia may be received in naira from an External Account or in any foreign currency. However, settlements with Niger are channeled through special accounts. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts Accounts in naira of persons resident outside Nigeria are divided into three categories: External Accounts, Rhodesia Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts, which are maintained for resi- dents of all countries other than Rhodesia, may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Ni- geria to residents of foreign countries other than Rho- desia, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of foreign cur- rencies other than Rhodesian currency. Rhodesia Accounts are maintained for residents of Rhodesia and have been blocked since July 3, 1969. Blocked Accounts axe accounts to which are credited funds that are blocked by directives given under Sec- tion 27 of the Exchange Control Act. Imports and Import Payments Importers must be registered if they wish to obtain individual import licenses. All imports from Namibia (South West Africa), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and the import from any country of certain specified commodities is banned, mostly for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons; the import of a few other commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied with that are specified in the license authorizing such imports. Individual im- port licenses are required for a small number of items from all sources, including raw or manufactured to- bacco, stock fish, and certain types of paper. Imports which are neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license from any country other than Namibia (South West Africa), Rhodesia, or South Africa. Some imports are effected by an autonomous public agency, the National Supply Company. Capital equipment with a value in excess of & 100,000 must be imported on specified deferred pay- ment terms, with up to 15 per cent payable against documents or on signing of the contract. Authorized dealers may otherwise grant foreign exchange for au- thorized imports at sight of shipping documents (in- voice, bill of lading, and customs bill of entry) or in accordance with such credit terms as may be arranged between importer and exporter (subject to the approval of the Central Bank for the private sector or the Minis- try of Finance for the public sector). Payment in ad- vance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank and is not normally allowed.2 Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some categories of NIGERIA invisibles this is granted by authorized dealers, either up to specified limits or up to the amount of the bill or invoice. Applications for payments that cannot be ap- proved by authorized dealers and are not among those (such as profits and dividends)3 that require approval by the Ministry of Finance are forwarded to the Central Bank for decision. All insurance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria and all insurance com- panies operating in the country must reinsure with the National Insurance Corporation. Sixty per cent of ship charter payments must be settled in local currency, except when government-sponsored shipping compa- nies are involved. Residents are entitled to a basic tourist travel allow- ance of N 400 a person a year4 for travel outside Africa (N 200 a year for a child, subject to a limit of £f 1,200 for any one family unit). Foreign exchange for this purpose may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and airline com- panies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any destination, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nige- rian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allow- ance. There is a separate basic allowance for travel within Africa. This allowance is £* 200 a person a year (half of that for a child). There is a separate basic travel allowance of £f 500 an adult a year for pilgrimages, which may not be combined with the tourist allocation. Business travel allowances are limited to Nt 50 a day,5 up to 30 days a trip, for any number of trips. Alloca- tions also are available for medical care and study abroad. Exchange applications for nontourist travel must be submitted to the Central Bank.6 Foreign na- tionals residing in Nigeria may purchase annually for- eign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross taxable earnings in Nigeria for all personal remittances (includ- ing insurance, education, and medical expenses, but excluding the basic travel allowance), up to a maximum of N 9,000 a person in any financial year. Applications in excess of this limit are examined on their merits by the Central Bank. Residents are permitted to take out the equivalent of their basic travel allowance in foreign currency notes and travelers checks; nonresident visitors may take out any foreign currency notes and travelers checks that were declared upon entry, minus the amount converted locally into Nigerian currency. The export of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any country except South Africa and Namibia (South West Africa), exports to which require individual licenses. Individual export licenses are re- quired for cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA by-products of tin, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by Mar- keting Boards (mainly cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, ben- niseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kernels). The selling abroad of all export crops pur- chased by the Marketing Boards is the responsibility of the Nigerian Produce Marketing Company. The export of certain goods (African antiquities or works of art produced before 1918 and objects that are being used or have been used in African ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of ex- plosives, other than industrial explosives, and of certain foodstuffs is prohibited, and exports of cattle and groundnuts have been suspended. Exports of petro- leum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. Export proceeds must be surrendered, through a commercial bank, to the Central Bank within three months of shipment. Exports of petroleum and petro- leum products, however, are exempt from the surrender requirements. For all exports, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer, who is required to surrender them to the Central Bank. Persons enter- ing Nigeria may freely bring in foreign banknotes. The import of Nigerian currency notes and coins is prohib- ited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or ex- ports, permission from the Ministry of Finance is re- quired for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow abroad. In addition, offi- cial agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrowing. The taking up of suppliers' credit abroad also is subject to approval by the Ministry of Finance. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any non- resident individual or company, and (2) by any com- pany registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) which is controlled directly or indirectly from outside Nigeria. However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdrafts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or overdraft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraft, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Banks have been directed to allocate 40 per cent of their total loans and advances to Nige- rian persons and firms. 362 Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign cur- rency securities nor may they buy from or sell to non- residents of Nigeria any security payable in Nigerian pounds or naira without the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Remittances of cash gifts to nonresidents normally are restricted to the equivalent of & 100 for each trans- feror a calendar year in favor of charitable organiza- tions outside Nigeria. Exchange for the transfer of certain assets by emigrants or repatriates is granted on final departure from the country, but the transfer of the proceeds of assets realized to comply with the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1972 is subject to spe- cial rules. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Fi- nance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to future requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this forms an integral part of the approved investment project. Furthermore, this status is not normally granted when internally generated funds from profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enterprises. With minor excep- tions, foreign-owned companies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval from the Ministry of Finance. Gold With the express permission of the Federal Commis- sioner for Finance, residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for numismatic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Fi- nance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Furthermore, the import of gold coins current in the United Kingdom requires a license from the Commis- sioner of Customs and Excise, and the import of other gold coins requires a specific import license. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bullion are duty free when made by the Central Bank for monetary pur- poses; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs duty at 100 per cent ad valorem. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1974 January 16. Exports of groundnuts were suspended. March 26. Decree No. 13 was published, amending the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1972. April 1. Nigeria adopted an independent exchange rate policy, under which the naira was appreciated in terms of both the U.S. dollar and sterling. (Previously, exchange rates had been based on the central rate estab- lished in February 1973, and the rate for the U.S. dollar had been & 1 = US$1.52.) The Central Bank began to quote both currencies daily, with its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar V2 per cent either side of the middle rate. On April 5, the initial rate for the U.S. dollar was set at & 1 = US$1.54. April 1. It was announced that the remaining arrears of profit and dividend remittances would be fully set- tled during the fiscal year 1975, and that all newly accruing investment income of nonresidents would be fully transferable without delay; new profits and divi- dends could be remitted as soon as they were declared. April 1. It was announced that remittances of techni- cal fees, management fees, and royalties would be per- mitted where it could be shown to the Ministry of Finance that these related to the import of modern technology. April 1. The system of mandatory deferred payments for imports, under which, generally, trade credit of at least 90 days after customs entry had been prescribed, was abolished, except for certain capital goods. Hence- forth, payments for imports of all goods except plant and machinery costing more than & 100,000 could be made at sight of shipping documents (or on such credit terms as might be arranged between supplier and im- porter). Payments for plant and machinery costing more than N 100,000 could be made according to a liberalized schedule. April 1. Imports of meat, fruits, rice, wheat, maize, brandy, rum, whiskey, gin, tires and tubes for automo- biles, and certain other items were placed under open general license. Previously, meat and fruits were on the prohibited list and rice, wheat, and maize on the spe- cific licensing list. The import of silver or metal alloy coins that are not legal tender in Nigeria became totally prohibited. April 1. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel outside Africa was doubled to the equivalent of £t 400 a person a year (N 200 a year for each child) and that for travel within Africa to N 200 a person a year (£t 100 for each child). The pilgrimage allowance for adults was increased from £f 300 to N 500 a person a year. A basic business travel allowance was reintro- duced, at £i 50 a day, up to 30 days per trip, for any number of trips; previously, applications had to be sub- mitted to the Central Bank, which generally granted N 40 a day. April 1. Authorized dealers were empowered to ap- prove exchange applications in respect of miscellaneous items (such as examination fees, annual membership NIGERIA subscriptions, correspondence courses, and tuition fees) and remittances to meet the educational expenses of Nigerian students attending colleges and higher in- stitutions of learning outside Nigeria. April 1. The national reconstruction surcharge of 5 per cent of the applicable import duty was abolished, which had been levied on most imports. April 1. The Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1972 came into force, March 31 having been the "appointed day." The deadline for compliance by alien enterprises was extended by six months. April 1. Import duties on a large number of goods were reduced substantially. April 1. Export duties on rubber were abolished. April 18. Imports of a number of foodstuffs and household articles were prohibited. May 20. The Government acquired a 55 per cent participation in all oil prospecting companies operating in Nigeria, with retroactive effect from April 1. July 1. It was announced that foreign procurement by the Federal and State Governments would hence- forth be handled through the Nigerian National Supply Company, including such procurement as was previ- ously channeled through the U.K. Crown Agents. July 1. Import duties on additional goods were re- duced or abolished. September 30. The extended deadline for compliance by alien enterprises with the provisions of the Nigerian Enterprises Promotion Decree, 1972 expired. The Ni- gerian Enterprises Promotion Board granted a further extension of six months. December 5. Government Notice No. 1746 extended the duration of all unused or partly used import licenses issued in 1974 for a period of three months, to March 31, 1975. NOTES 1 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the naira. Currencies designated as specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese es- cudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 2 Early in 1975, imports could again be paid for upon shipment, prepayments on the basis of letters of credit were allowed, and commercial banks were permitted to keep work- ing balances abroad to ensure prompt payment. 3 At the end of 1973, investment income exceeding 25 per cent of the amount accrued to nonresidents in 1972, and all such income accrued or accruing to nonresidents after 1972 were not transferable. On April 1, 1974, however, it was announced that the arrears from 1972 would be cleared in the new financial year and that new profits and dividends could be remitted as soon as they were declared. Also, remittances of technical fees, management fees, and royalties would be permitted where it could be shown that these related to the import of modern technology. Payments for technical and management fees require approval by the Federal Ministry of Finance. A fixed fee is normally permitted for the first five 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA years after the establishment of a new company, and thereaf- ter a percentage of gross profit not exceeding 5 per cent. Each application is treated on its merits within these broad guide- lines. Similar policies are applicable to other service pay- ments, such as those relating to copyrights and trademarks. 4 Increased to £i 1,000 a person a year in early 1975. 5 Increased to £i 80 a day in early 1975. 6 In January 1975 the Central Bank delegated to autho- rized dealers the approval of the basic travel allowance for journeys by land to countries within Africa. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Norwegian Krone. In 1973 a central rate was estab- lished of NKr 1 = SDR 0.145530 or NKr 6.87145 = SDR 1, corresponding at the time to 0.129328 gram of fine gold per NKr 1, and Norway avails itself of wider margins. Margins of 2Y4 per cent are maintained for spot rates in the official exchange market between the Norwegian krone and the Belgian franc, the Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Lux- embourg franc, the Netherlands guilder, and the Swed- ish krona. No announced margins are maintained for other currencies. On December 31, 1974 the buying and selling rates of the authorized banks for the U.S. dollar were NKr 5.1925 and NKr 5.2175, respectively. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the inter- play of market forces. Authorized banks' forward transactions with nonbank residents must have a com- mercial basis. Norway formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current pay- ments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanufactured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Payments between Norway and Rhodesia are pro- hibited when they relate to imports, exports, or transit trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements with all other countries may be made in any convertible cur- rency, including Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Ac- counts, below). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convert- ible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries, subject to the proviso that without special permission from the Bank of Norway the total balance held by a nonbank nonresident must at no time exceed NKr 100,000. They may be credited with authorized payments to any country, with trans- fers from other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible cur- rencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from any country to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for pur- chases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Industrial goods may be imported freely from the im- port free list area1 upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of certain agricultural products are restricted, irrespective of origin. There are two re- stricted lists for industrial goods for specified coun- tries—one applicable to imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R., and the other applicable to imports from Japan and the Repub- lic of Korea; many of the goods on these lists are li- censed automatically. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains a few quotas for agricul- tural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed limits; these quotas apply to all countries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported freely,2 but special permission is required in order to supervise compliance with certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of a small number of commodi- ties is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equip- ment and materials for the fishing industry, pharma- ceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any country except Rhodesia for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. Pay- ments for any purpose to any country other than Rho- desia do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equiva- lent of NKr 500. The granting of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reason- able amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY with him up to NKr 800 in Norwegian banknotes, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to countries in the export free list area,3 against a declaration or a license, which is granted automatically. Exports sub- ject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports valued at not more than NKr 500 to any country are exempt from export license. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, humanitarian, or educational purposes. Payments must be received within 12 months of ship- ment and in conformity with the regulations (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). In principle, all exchange from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. Each person entering Norway may bring in any amount in Norwegian currency, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and in other means of payment. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Nor- way by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require individ- ual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automati- cally. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Most transactions in securities involv- ing nonresident interests are subject to approval. Nor- wegian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and purchased by nonresidents from Norwegian resi- dents by special permission may be resold to Norwe- gian residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds from the sale; the purchase of shares of Norwegian banking and industrial firms by nonresidents is licensed restrictively on a case-by-case basis. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to family loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be surrendered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are considered on their individual merits, and portfolio in- 366 vestment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Resi- dent-owned foreign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange, with the exception of securities issued by foreign investment companies or mutual funds, are freely negotiable between residents, provided that the securities originally were acquired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they were bought with the proceeds of foreign securities acquired before that date. Transactions in foreign securities between residents against settlement in kroner require a license from the Bank of Norway if the securities were not included in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. Residents may upon application trans- fer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational pur- poses, real estate valued at up to NKr 80,000 a family; such purchases by business firms, staff associations, etc., are approved liberally, also for higher amounts. In accordance with guidelines of December 13, 1971, the aggregate net foreign liability position of the banks may not deviate by more than NKr 260 million from the position at the end of October 1971, i.e., it must not be less than NKr 555 million or more than NKr 1,075 million. On May 23, 1972, however, these guidelines were modified slightly to allow the banks some addi- tional flexibility in determining their net liability posi- tion. There are limits on the commercial banks' borrowing abroad. Thus, they may borrow funds or accept deposits in foreign currency from foreign banks within a ceiling fixed at 20 per cent above their total foreign borrowing at the end of December 1970. Residents other than banks require the prior ap- proval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans, accepting other forms of capital, or incurring or provid- ing guarantee obligations abroad. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Norway. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Norway; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. No customs duties or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bullion and gold coins not contained in jewelry. Domestic sales of gold coins are subject to sales tax at a rate of 20 per cent. Changes during 1974 January 1. Following the expiration on Decem- ber 31, 1973 of the bilateral payments agreement, set- tlements with the German Democratic Republic took place in convertible currencies. Payments for all current invisibles to the German Democratic Republic could henceforth be made freely. February 20. The limit up to which residents could, on application, transfer capital abroad for the purchase of recreational real estate, was increased from NKr 60,000 to NKr 80,000 for a family unit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 21. The arrangements for government export guarantees were renewed, with an increase in the over- all ceiling from NKr 3 billion to NKr 5 billion; the special ceiling for export to and investment in develop- ing countries was increased from NKr 0.6 billion to NKr 1 billion. May 30. Norway signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transactions. July 22. The export licensing requirement for sawn timber was abolished. August 29. Norway notified the Fund that it was subscribing to the Voluntary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. September 27. A licensing system was introduced for all imports of sugar for domestic consumption and for industrial use. The purpose was to secure long-term supplies of sugar for domestic consumption through centralized imports, not to limit the quantities imported. September 27. The Ministry of Finance informed the Bank of Norway that permission to foreign banks to establish branches in Norway would not be given for the time being. December 3. The Bank of Norway issued new rules governing nonresident krone accounts. No changes were made in the types of transactions permitted on such accounts, but henceforth all transactions had to be reported to the Bank of Norway. Deposits from foreign banks could be accepted by authorized foreign exchange banks only. No formal limit was set on such deposits, but deposits of unusual size and nature were to be refused. If deemed necessary, limits on foreign NORWAY banks' krone accounts with Norwegian banks could be stipulated, and the establishment of new krone accounts for foreign banks could be prohibited. Deposits from nonbank nonresidents could be accepted by foreign exchange banks as well as other banks. The total balance belonging to any one nonbank nonresident could at no time exceed NKr 100,000 without special permission from the Bank of Norway. If the balance on any existing account exceeded that amount, application had to be made to the Bank of Norway as soon as possible for keeping a higher bal- ance. For such accounts permitted to be maintained, the Bank of Norway would stipulate a special maxi- mum balance, and monthly statements would have to be submitted. New deposits exceeding NKr 100,000 were to be refused until the Bank of Norway's approval had been obtained. December 17. The Bank of Norway instructed autho- rized brokers that with effect from January 1, 1975 they could freely sell to, and buy from, nonresidents shares in the Norwegian company Norsk Hydro a.s. Forward transactions could not take place. NOTES 1 All countries except Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Dem- ocratic Republic, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Romania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 2 Automatic authorization is not granted for imports from Albania, People's Republic of China, Republic of China, Ma- cao, Mongolia, North Korea, Rhodesia, and North Viet-Nam. 3 All countries except Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Roma- nia, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution OMAN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On July 4, 1974, Oman established an initial par value of 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Rial Omani, corresponding at the time to RO 0.416667 = SDR 1. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman avails itself of wider margins. The Oman Currency Board maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, while the commercial banks' rates for other currencies are based on market rates in London. On December 31, 1974, the official buying rate for the U.S. dollar was RO 0.342 per US$1, and the official selling rate was RO 0.3488 per US$1. On the same date, the buying and selling rates for sterling were RO 0.803 and RO 0.819 per £ stg. 1, respectively. Oman informed the Fund on June 19, 1974 that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in Oman. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. The use of the currencies of Israel and Rhodesia also is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. * Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health, morals, or security. Im- ports of Maria Theresa dollars also are prohibited. Im- port licenses are not required and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited and exports or re-exports of live animals and foodstuffs may be prohibited in times of shortage in Oman. All other commodities may be exported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or 368 re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or sur- rendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regard- less of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for and proceeds from invisibles are not restricted. Payments must not, however, be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Travelers may bring in or take out any amount in domestic or foreign bank- notes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, except that no payments must be made to or received from Israel or Rhodesia. Investment in busi- ness firms in Oman by foreign physical or juridical persons requires prior approval. Such investment is reg- ulated by a foreign investment law enacted in 1973. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, including private persons, may freely and without license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs duties or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel and Rhodesia, however, are prohibited. Changes during 1974 March 19. The ban on exports of crude petroleum to the United States was lifted. March 27. Currency Decree No. 1394 was issued. It broadened the functions of the Oman Currency Board. June 19. Oman informed the Fund that it formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. July 4. An initial par value was established of 2.13281 grams of fine gold per rial omani, correspond- ing to RO 0.416667 = SDR 1. The parity in terms of gold remained unchanged. The effective parity relation- ship for the U.S. dollar also remained unchanged, at RO 1 = US$2.89524. Oman also availed itself of wider margins. July 10. The ban on exports of crude petroleum to the Netherlands was lifted. July 20. Oman informed the Fund that it was pre- pared to subscribe to the Voluntary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Bal- ance of Payments Purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution August 1. Import duties were abolished on cement, rice, wheat, wheat flour, sugar, meat, tea, fruits, milk, and cooking oil. September 15. The import of most soft drinks was prohibited. NOTE l Prior to June 23, 1972 Oman was administratively treated as a Scheduled Territory for purposes of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947. Under current U.K. exchange control regulations, Oman is regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. OMAN 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0744103 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee, and Pakistan avails itself of wider mar- gins. The U.S. dollar is the intervention currency, and the State Bank of Pakistan (the central bank) maintains official rates of PRs 9.8844 buying, and PRs 9.9312 selling, per US$ 1 for dealings of banks with the public. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover their requirements of specified cur- rencies in foreign exchange markets abroad. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified cur- rencies against U.S. dollars or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. Administration of Control The State Bank has delegated to a number of banks and financial institutions authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits pre- scribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses and the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transactions are con- ducted through the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd. (TCP), a state trading agency. Prescription of Currency Exchange receipts and payments abroad must be ef- fected through an authorized foreign exchange dealer, in principle in any convertible currency or in Pakistan rupees from or to nonresident rupee bank Accounts. Certain settlements with specified countries, however, are channeled through special accounts. Letters of credit for imports from all other countries must be established in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, the domes- tic currency of the beneficiary, or in the currency of the country of origin or shipment. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghanistan, and settlements are made freely in Pakistan rupees or in Afghan currency. Trade transac- tions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, the People's Re- public of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Ko- rea, Poland, Romania, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. is settled through clearing accounts. There is a special trade and payments arrangement with the German Democratic Republic, with an indicative commodity list only. The clearing accounts with Bulgaria, the Peo- ple's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary 370 are maintained in nonconvertible Pakistan rupees; those with the German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R. are in U.S. dollars; and the clearing account with North Korea is denomi- nated in deutsche mark. Payments to and from Iran and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, Iranian oil, and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Under a credit arrange- ment with the Central Bank of Ceylon, all trade with Sri Lanka is settled through a special U.S. dollar ac- count. Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are sus- pended. Restrictions on payments between Pakistan and India have been lifted insofar as they relate to trade transactions in terms of the Pakistan-India trade proto- col of November 30, 1974. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of individuals, firms, or companies res- ident in countries outside Pakistan are designated as nonresident accounts.1 Authorized banks are permitted to open nonresident accounts for nonbank nonresi- dents without the prior approval of the State Bank where the accounts are to be opened with funds re- ceived from abroad through banking channels or with rupee funds which have been accepted for remittance abroad. Debits and credits to nonresident accounts for specified purposes can be made by authorized banks without the prior approval of the State Bank. Accounts of residents of India, other than the accounts of the Indian High Commission and its personnel, are blocked. Pakistan nationals residing abroad and foreign na- tionals, whether resident abroad or in Pakistan, may open foreign currency accounts with banks in Pakistan without prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. There are no restrictions on the currencies in which the accounts may be denominated and credit balances may be freely transferred abroad. However, a deposit holder wishing to make payments in Pakistan must first convert the foreign exchange drawn from his account into Pakistan rupees. If a Pakistan national holding such an account returns to Pakistan, he may retain the account unless his stay exceeds six months; thereafter the account must be closed and the exchange surren- dered. Banks in Pakistan receiving such deposits must sell the foreign exchange to the State Bank. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in two lists: a free list and a tied list. Items on the free list may, in principle, be procured without restriction while items on the tied ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution list may be procured only from tied aid and barter trade sources. Items not on either list are effectively prohib- ited for import except under certain circumstances by export industries, as mentioned below. All imports re- quire licenses, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land routes from Afghanistan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notifi- cation (No. 335/260/24 of June 12, 1951). Licenses for imports of a value up to PRs 500 incur no fee, but licenses above that amount up to PRs 100,000 are sub- ject to a fee of 1 per cent of the value of the license and licenses above PRs 100,000 are subject to a fee of 2 per cent payable at the time of the issue of the license. The basic two-list import regime is subject to certain supplementary qualifications, the most important of which are as follows: (1) Imports from the Republic of China, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited, as are imports of goods originating in these countries but shipped from third countries. Imports from India are only permitted in accordance with the trade protocol of November 30, 1974. (2) In order to facilitate barter trading and aid utilization and to se- cure economies through bulk imports, the import of specified items is restricted to the TCP, unless the items are procured with U.S. aid. (3) The import of certain other items is restricted to the public sector or to indus- trial consumers. (4) In conformity with Regional Coop- eration for Development arrangements between Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey governing procurements from joint industrial ventures, the import of ten items, in- cluding six chemical items, is restricted to procurement from Turkey. (5) Special provisions exist for the import for export industries of tied list items from nontied sources and items not on the two import lists. (6) Pri- vate sector importers, other than those importing goods for personal use, who apply for import licenses for goods valued at PRs 20,000 or more must be mem- bers of approved trade organizations. (7) Licenses for permissible imports of industrial plant and equipment are restricted to a c. & f. value of PRs 500,000 for imports against cash, PRs 1 million for imports under tied credit, and PRs 2 million for imports under bilat- eral payments arrangements (larger plant and equip- ment are to be procured under the auspices of the financing institutions and with the approval of the Min- istry of Industries). Except for imports of books, periodicals, and news- papers, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manu- facturers, the State Bank may authorize advance pay- ments for a part of the value of the goods. No import payments are permitted to be made for goods originat- ing in or consigned from the Republic of China, India (other than imports covered by the trade protocol of PAKISTAN November 30, 1974), Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Except for specified items, including items on the tied import list, the State Bank requires banks to take a minimum margin of 25 per cent against import letters of credit.2 Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in many cases require its prior approval. No remittances are permitted to be made to Bangladesh, the Republic of China, India, Israel, South Africa, or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, autho- rized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regulations. Certain remit- tances of a personal nature are subject to annual quo- tas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pakistan nationals to their fami- lies abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the underlying trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except with respect to certain aid shipments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's ap- proval. Profits of branches of foreign companies may be remitted freely to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Paki- stan income tax authorities. On an administrative basis, the State Bank approves an exchange allocation of US$500 a person a trip for private travel; this allocation can be taken up once every two years. Additional ex- change for business travel, medical treatment, educa- tion, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. There are also specific allowances for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia and other Middle East- ern countries. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency notes. Residents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan cur- rency notes and coins and any amount of Afghan cur- rency. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 a person in Pakistan currency and any amount in foreign currency notes and travelers checks granted by authorized banks under permissions issued by the State Bank. Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 or higher may not be taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of specified commodities to any destination, and all exports to the Republic of China, Israel, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited.3 Exports of most other commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for some 24 listed items, as well as 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN for certain types of sports goods and a few other items subject to minimum export prices, and for mill-made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. The Cotton Export Corporation of Pakistan has a monopoly over exports of cotton, and rice is exported through the Rice Export Corporation. The State Bank exercises control over exchange re- ceipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. After making certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the export form for ship- ment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months of shipment; the State Bank may, on the merits of each case, allow an extension of this period. The surrender of Afghan cur- rency accruing from exports to Afghanistan is not re- quired. Industrial units established under the Pay-As- You-Earn Scheme are permitted to utilize up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports for the servicing of suppliers' credit on imports of plant and machinery. Export duties are levied on a range of export items, including raw cotton, rice, wool, and hides and skins. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered within one month. Travelers may bring in PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes a person and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in India; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50 and above may not be brought in. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial develop- ment in Pakistan, the Government follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who can, with the approval of the Government, start any industry in the private sector without any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, how- ever, expected that local rupee expenditure will ordi- narily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) Foreign cap- ital invested in approved industries established after September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time thereafter to the extent of the original investment, and current profits may be transferred without restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as invest- ment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under (1) and 372 (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fair compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the investment in the event of nationalization of any project. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus facilitate repatria- tion at any time of the principal and the prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nationals are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign secu- rities by resident Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank and is seldom permitted. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the transfer is to be made. Foreign na- tionals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. Gen- eral permission has been given in connection with the issue, sale, or transfer of securities issued in Pakistan in favor of nonresidents, provided the securities are regis- tered in Pakistan and investment is made on the basis of nonrepatriation of capital and return. Pakistan secu- rities held by nonresidents may be transferred to other nonresidents against payment abroad with the same facilities in respect of remittance of capital and earnings as those obtained by the transferor. A general permis- sion has also been issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resident in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresident cap-, ital assets that are not covered by repatriation arrangements must be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved govern- ment securities payable in Pakistan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistan nationals resi- dent abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remit- tance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their nonresident accounts in Pakistan; dividends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistan nationals require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell movable or immovable assets held abroad, and the liquidation pro- ceeds must be repatriated to Pakistan through normal banking channels. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold The export and import of gold are prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. No such permission is granted, but there are no restrictions on the internal sale and purchase of nonmonetary gold. Changes during 1974 January 1. The Government announced its acquisi- tion with immediate effect of the ownership, manage- ment, and control of, and all shares held by private persons in Pakistan in the capital of, domestically owned banks, companies marketing petroleum prod- ucts, and maritime shipping companies. Foreign- owned shares in these enterprises, and foreign-owned banks and petroleum marketing companies operating in Pakistan, were not affected by these measures. How- ever, foreign banks would not be permitted to establish new branches in Pakistan. January 10. Imports of sulfur, wood pulp, tobacco, and safety equipment for the mining industry were transferred from the tied list to the free list. The first three items, which formerly could be imported only through the TCP, could now be imported freely. Mag- netic tapes, previously prohibited, could now also be imported under the free list. January 17. The Pay-As-You-Earn Scheme, permit- ting imports of plant and machinery for setting up export-oriented industries or expanding existing units on a deferred payments basis, was revised. Up to 50 per cent of an industrial unit's foreign exchange earnings could now be used for meeting the related debt service obligations, against 20 per cent previously. January 25. The prescription of currency for imports from countries with which Pakistan does not have pay- ments agreements was changed, prescribing payment in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or the local currency of the beneficiary, or in the currency of the country of origin or shipment, or in Pakistan rupees for credit to a nonresident rupee bank account. Previously, pay- ments could only be made in U.S. dollars, pounds ster- ling, or the currency of the country of origin or shipment of the goods. February 11. The commodity exchange agreement with A.B. Sukab of Sweden was extended until Decem- ber 31, 1974, but only for exports, while imports were temporarily discontinued. March 4. The State Bank of Pakistan and the Central Bank of Ceylon entered into a credit arrangement, valid until December 31, 1975, covering all payments relat- ing to trade between Pakistan and Sri Lanka; such payments would be settled through a special U.S. dol- lar account. March 5. Authorized dealers were permitted to open letters of credit providing for payment in sterling for imports from countries other than the United King- dom, instead of imports from the United Kingdom only. PAKISTAN March 15. The foreign exchange allocation of US$500 a person a trip for private travel, previously available for any number of trips, was restricted to one trip every two years. Simultaneously, the allocation for business travel was increased from US$40 a day, sub- ject to a maximum of US$1,000 a trip, to US$50 a day, subject to a maximum of US$1,500 a trip. Allocations for pilgrimage to Mecca were increased from US$300 to US$500. March 23. The export duty on cotton yarn was re- duced. April 27. A new commodity exchange agreement with Poland was concluded. Settlements were to take place through two special accounts in nonconvertible U.S. dollars. May 10. A trade and payments agreement was con- cluded with the German Democratic Republic. Settle- ments were to take place through two special U.S. dollar clearing accounts. May 15. The 1970 commodity exchange agreement with Romania was extended until November 30, 1974, and a new one was concluded for the period to Decem- ber 31, 1975. Under the latter, settlements were to take place through two special accounts in nonconvertible U.S. dollars. May 31. Exports of cotton textiles, cotton yarn, and miscellaneous manufactured goods were allowed under the commodity exchange agreement with Poland, in order to balance the bilateral accounts. June 8. The flood relief surcharge of 25 per cent of the applicable rate of customs duty, which had been levied on virtually all imports except machinery and tractors, was absorbed into the customs tariff. June 8. Import duties were reduced on tea, tendo leaves, and automobiles up to 1,300 cubic centimeters. June 8. Export duties were reduced on certain cotton products, raw cotton, cotton yarn, tanned and semi- tanned hides and skins, and fish meal, and were abol- ished for canvas cloth. June 21. The extension of forward exchange cover by authorized banks for imports was restricted. While banks could previously provide forward cover for peri- ods of up to 12 months, and grant one extension of 3 months, cover was now reduced to 6 months at most, except for certain machinery eligible for cover up to 12 months and 24 months. No extension would be permit- ted beyond the initial forward cover contract. June 26. Banks were informed that the commodity exchange agreement of June 30, 1969 between the TCP and the Foreign Transaction Company of Iran had been extended until March 21, 1975 for exports to Iran. July 1. A new commodity exchange agreement with North Korea was concluded. Settlements were to take place through two special accounts in nonconvertible deutsche mark. July 8. The Import Policy Order, 1974 was issued, containing the import policy to be effective from Ju- ly 1, 1974 to June 30, 1975. The Order, which contin- 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN ued the practice of two permitted import lists (the free list and the tied list), provided for some additional import liberalization. It shifted 7 prohibited items to the free list, 1 prohibited item to the tied list, and 20 items from the tied list to the free list. The free list contained 382 items, and the tied list 30 items, all other imports being prohibited. Of the free list items, 38 were reserved for industrial users, 10 for the TCP, and 15 for specified public sector agencies. Of the tied list items, only one was reserved for industrial consumers. July 17. Authorized banks were permitted, without prior approval by the State Bank of Pakistan, to debit private nonresident accounts of nonresidents other than banks for payments of installments of loans direct to the financial institution from which the account holder had obtained the loan. July 26. The 1973 commodity exchange agreement with North Korea was extended until October 31, 1974, but was limited to exports from Pakistan. July 27. The commodity exchange agreement of June 23, 1972 with the People's Republic of China was extended until December 31, 1974, and a new one was concluded. Settlements were to take place through two special accounts in nonconvertible Pakistan rupees. August 1. Export duties were abolished on cotton cloth, cotton manufactures, and cotton hosiery. August 18. Export duties were abolished for cotton yarn and cotton yarn waste. September 3. Export duties were abolished for fin- ished leather, shoes made of leather, and fish meal, and reduced for semitanned and tanned hides and skins. September 3. A schedule for the elimination of Com- monwealth preferences on goods of U.K. origin was announced. Preferences of 6 per cent or less were abol- ished retroactively to July 1, 1974, preferences of over 6 per cent would be halved on July 1, 1975, and the remaining preferences would be eliminated on July 1, 1976. October 31. The excise duty on cotton yarn was re- duced. November 30. A protocol was signed with India pro- viding for a resumption of trade, which would be con- ducted on a government-to-government basis or through government-controlled corporations. December 7. The ban on trade with India was lifted for the trade transactions covered by the trade protocol signed on November 30. NOTES 1 Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other hand. 2 With effect from February 1, 1975 an additional import duty of 25 per cent ad valorem was imposed on cocoa, coffee, many domestic appliances, passenger automobiles, and a number of other goods. 3 Prohibited exports include beef, mutton, grains, flour, dairy products, vegetables, poultry, blood meal, meat meal, corn gluten meal, sesame oil cake, certain citrus fruits (unless graded), and certain hides and skins. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.736662 gram of fine gold per Panamanian Balboa, corresponding to B 1.00 = US$1. Panama does not avail itself of wider margins. U.S. currency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins, a com- memorative 20-balboa silver coin, and a commemora- tive 100-balboa gold coin. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based mainly on New York mar- ket quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of a prohibition on payments to Rhodesia other than those for pensions or for humanitarian, educational, medical, or informa- tional purposes. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiautonomous institution of the Panamanian Government. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports. The Minis- try of Commerce and Industry determines the import quotas for commodities listed in trade agreements, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Develop- ment, jointly with the Price Regulation Office, those for agricultural commodities temporarily in short supply. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with present or prospective domestic production; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also ap- plies to imports of various foodstuffs. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 6 per cent on the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import du ty, on private sector imports of all dutiable goods other than specified pharmaceutical products and foodstuffs, for which the rate is 2V2 per cent and 3V2 per cent, respectively; books are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for humanitarian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. Authorization is required for exports of cof- fee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle, and for certain manufactured products in short supply. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on gold, silver, platinum, manganese, other minerals, bananas, coconuts, scrap metals, pearls, animal wax, nispero gum, ipecac root, and rubber. Exports of cement, cer- tain foodstuffs, firearms, and ammunition are prohib- ited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except for most payments to Rhodesia. A travel tax of 4 per cent is levied on air and sea tickets bought in Panama or on such tickets pur- chased for travelers starting their trip in Panama. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, except for most payments to Rhodesia. Several foreign-controlled banks are authorized to conduct business only with nonresidents. Gold Panama has issued a commemorative gold coin with a face value of B 100, which is legal tender but does not circulate. Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and export licenses are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. Exports of unworked gold produced in Pan- ama are subject to an export duty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other than U.S. coins, which are exempt) to a duty of V2 per cent. Changes during 1974 April 1. The export tax on bananas was increased to B 1 per 40-pound box. With retroactive effect from October 21, the tax was reduced in December to B 0.35. June 20. A free trade agreement was signed with Guatemala. September 17. Imports of clothing were restricted. Quotas for individual importers were based on their imports between August 15 and December 15, 1973. December 31. A legal tender gold coin with a face value of B 100 was issued. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a new par value for the Para- guayan Guarani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange trans- actions take place in a dual exchange market. Transac- tions in the official exchange market (mercado libre bancario) must be carried out through the Central Bank (for all government transactions) or an authorized com- mercial bank; these transactions take place at a rate of 0 126 per US$1, subject to taxes and commissions. Transactions in the fluctuating free market {mercado libre fluctuante de cambio) are conducted through li- censed foreign exchange houses at a fluctuating rate which on December 31, 1974 was about 0 132 per US$1 buying, and & 135 per US$1 selling. All pur- chases and sales of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of 1Y2 per cent, except transactions with foreign embassies and diplomats; transactions with meat pack- ing plants; and transactions relating to investments in Paraguay that are covered by Law No. 216 of Novem- ber 9, 1970. In addition, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. There are no forward exchange facilities. The transactions settled in the official exchange mar- ket are exports and imports (except unrecorded border trade), certain current invisibles, all government trans- actions, registered private capital transactions, and re- lated profit remittances. All other transactions are channeled through the fluctuating free market, unless settlements are effected under reciprocal credit agree- ments with LAFTA countries. The authorized banks, but not the exchange houses, are required to sell 30 per cent of their gross foreign exchange receipts in specified currencies1 to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay determines foreign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange transactions carried out by commercial banks and au- thorized foreign exchange houses. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Payments between Paraguay and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts which the Central Bank of Paraguay and the other central banks concerned maintain with each other, within the framework of the LAFTA multi- lateral clearing system. 376 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities require an import li- cense.2 Certain other items require a license from the Ministry of Interior; these are mainly narcotics and arms and ammunition. All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for 120 days, or if the deposit is made after the date of ship- ment, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodities im- ported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for, inter alia, public sector imports, imports by foreign diplomats and by foreign staff of certain international organiza- tions, petroleum and petroleum derivatives, certain ma- chinery and agricultural equipment, wheat, and printed matter from any source, imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, and imports from other LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list (the National List). The Central Bank has authority to grant exemptions on a case-by-case basis. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 36 per cent applies to most general imports from any source; however, for goods originating in LAFTA countries and included in the Paraguayan National List the rate ranges from 3 per cent to 30 per cent, and for certain other LAFTA goods (mainly Pharmaceuticals) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent. Fuel derived from petroleum is subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent (10 per cent for neighboring countries and Uruguay). There is an additional sur- charge of 5 per cent on imports from all sources of telephone and telegraph equipment, television receiv- ers, and radios and record players and their parts and accessories. Commodities that are exempt from sur- charge generally are also exempt from advance deposit. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the principal exemptions from surcharge: wheat; crude petroleum; equipment for petroleum exploration and exploitation; agricultural tractors; imports for the Government; imports for reli- gious, charitable, cultural, or educational purposes; im- ports by foreign diplomats and certain international organizations; Spanish agricultural and industrial ma- chinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay; agricultural machinery and equipment for the National Wheat Program; books and periodicals; and imports for investments under the new Capital Investment Law No. 216/70. Imports of in- vestment goods and of raw materials for export indus- tries receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff sur- charge is levied on certain imports by virtue of Law No. 1334/67, which implemented Decree-Law No. 451 of March 31, 1967, and Law No. 10 of August 29, 1968. On goods that are not exempt, it is 12-24 per cent (8-16 per cent for certain goods subject to LAFTA concessions) and is levied on the c.i.f. value, which is calculated as follows: the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports from neighboring countries and Uruguay, and the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports from other countries. Exempt from this complementary im- port duty are public sector and diplomatic imports; raw materials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes; imports under Capital Investment Law No. 216/70; and all imported goods taxed under the Internal Consumption Tax Law. Imports are also subject to sales tax at 5 per cent or 10 per cent by virtue of Law No. 69/68. In addition to those mentioned above, the following charges are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports: a con- sular fee of 5 per cent, an import clearance fee of 1 per cent, and a customs surcharge of IV2 per cent, from which wheat and certain other commodities are exempt and the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Tech- nology and Standards. Moreover, imports of construc- tion materials are subject to an additional customs surcharge of 1 per cent, the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Housing and Urbanization. Imports of specified goods (including television sets and precious metals) may not be financed with foreign credit. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of ma- chinery and other capital goods. Import payments must be made through banks, at the official market rate of exchange. Import payments are free from formal restriction, but certain arrears have arisen from time to time as a result of periodic releases of foreign exchange to the private commercial banks by the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all current invisibles may be made freely through the fluctuating free market. These in- clude travel, freight and insurance, interest and divi- dends on capital that has not been registered with the Central Bank, family remittances, and private dona- tions. There are allocations at the official rate for a few invisibles, such as payments related to study abroad. The General Banking Law of November 13, 1973 lim- its the remittance of profits'through the official market to 30 per cent of any one year's profits for commercial banks and financial institutions and to 60 per cent for investment, development, and mortgage banks; the re- maining profits may be remitted freely through the fluctuating free market. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. PARAGUAY Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of logs and rough beams and a few other items are prohibited. Meat is subject to annual export quotas and certain other exports require licenses in order to assure domestic supplies. All other exports are free of license but some require a certificate issued by the Institute of Technology and Standards. The pro- ceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after completion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to an authorized commercial bank; there are no legal sanctions for noncompliance with this require- ment unless this is notified to the Central Bank by the Superintendency of Banks. For all exports minimum surrender prices (aforos) denominated in U.S. dollars and calculated at fj 123.60 per US$1 are established; export proceeds corresponding to these prices must be surrendered in the official exchange market.3 Advance receipts of export proceeds must also be sold to autho- rized banks. Producers of coffee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained pro- ceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to nonresidents and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the producers' own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in guara- nies ranging from 2V2 per cent to 7V2 per cent of the f.o.b. value; most exports also are subject to an addi- tional tax of 1V2 per cent of the f.o.b. value. Exports of meat products are exempt from export taxes. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles may be retained or sold in the fluctuating free market. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital Movements of registered capital take place in the official exchange market, through authorized banks, and all other capital movements are channeled through the fluctuating free market, through exchange houses. All inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks and exchange houses. Authorized banks may grant exchange at the official market rate for transfers of registered capital, subject to presenta- tion of appropriate documentation. Other outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Law No. 216 of November 9, 1970, the Capital Investment Law, empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, import surcharge, and ad- vance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are registered; the terms may vary from case to case. Capital imported under Law No. 216 may be retransferred in install- ments of up to 20 per cent from the third year after the beginning of production, in the currency originally im- ported. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Gold Decree-Law No. 18 of 1952 provides that the Cen- tral Bank may determine the maximum amount of gold and foreign exchange that residents may hold; exempt is any amount acquired by the Central Bank or institu- tions authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In practice residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Paraguay or abroad, and exchange houses may freely deal in gold coins, gold bars, and gold leaf with residents and nonresidents. Exports and imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank, for which residents and industrial users are eligible; payments for gold imports by industrial users must be made through authorized banks at the official exchange rate, and payments for imports by others must be made through exchange houses at the fluctuating free market rate. Changes during 1974 January 1. Decree No. 2373 of December 14, 1973 introduced a new customs tariff based on the Brussels tariff nomenclature. The decree also imposed a tax of 1.5 per cent on most exports. March 15. Decree No. 4509 lifted the prohibition on imports of liquid petroleum. April 19. Exchange houses authorized to operate in the fluctuating market were prohibited from entering into obligations of any kind vis-a-vis banks in Paraguay except with the express permission of the Central Bank. June 28. Decree No. 7005 consolidated in a single list those import duties that were effectively levied at levels lower than provided in the customs tariff. December 17. A regulation was issued providing that with effect from January 2, 1975 the full exchange pro- ceeds from exports had to be sold in the official market. NOTES 1 Argentine pesos, Belgian francs, Brazilian cruzeiros, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 These include rice, rice flour, and certain other agricul- tural products and foodstuffs, certain petroleum products, cement, and certain wire and wire products. 3 With effect from January 2, 1975 the full exchange pro- ceeds had to be sold in the official market. 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On December 18,1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange mar- ket with two fixed exchange rates, an exchange certifi- cate market rate applying to all trade transactions and specified nontrade transactions, including the principal capital movements, and a draft market rate for services and most other nontrade transactions. The foreign ex- change requirements of the public sector are met en- tirely through the certificate market. Export proceeds must be converted into exchange certificates, which are valid for three days and are is- sued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru in U.S. dol- lars only. These exchange certificates may be used, only through the intermediary of commercial banks, to pay for imports (f.o.b.) and for certain nontrade transac- tions. Generally, no exchange certificates are issued against export proceeds surrendered by the public sec- tor, nor are certificates used to cover foreign payments of the public sector, since normally the Central Reserve Bank buys and sells foreign exchange direct from and to government agencies at the certificate rate. When approved applications for certificates exceed the sup- ply, the Central Reserve Bank sells foreign exchange at the certificate market rate without any delay. All for- eign exchange receipts that are not required to be sur- rendered at the certificate rate must be sold in the draft market, in which only the government-owned Banco de la Nacion and its authorized agents operate. Access to the draft market is controlled and purchases of foreign exchange are permitted only for specified payments not eligible for exchange at the certificate rate. The banks are required to quote a single rate for buying and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission of V4 of 1 per cent on sales of certificates (none on purchases of certificates); they may charge a commission of V4 of 1 per cent, buy ing and selling, on transactions in the draft market. On December 31, 1974 the certificate market rate was S /. 38.70 per US$1 (buying and selling) and the draft market rate was S /. 43.38 buying, and S /. 43.50 selling, per US$1. A stamp tax of 1 per cent is payable on most outward remittances. Peru formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Directorate of For- eign Trade in the Ministry of Commerce. The Central Reserve Bank controls the use of certificates for import payments. It also authorizes the use of certificates for nontrade transactions; for profit remittances by branches of foreign companies, prior approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance must be obtained in addition. All imports of, and most payments for ser- vices by, the public sector require the approval of the Board for Foreign Transactions of the Public Sector and a resolution of the Ministry of Economy and Fi- nance; a similar Board for Foreign Transactions- of the Private Sector approves import payments by the pri- vate sector on the basis of an annual forecast of imports that has been authorized by the competent sectoral ministries. Borrowing abroad by the public sector as well as borrowing abroad by the private sector with a government guarantee are subject to prior approval by Supreme Decree, upon favorable recommendation by the High Committee of the External Debt, the National Planning Institute, and the Permanent Commission on External Credit in the Ministry of Economy and Fi- nance. Prescription of Currency In principle, all export proceeds must be received in convertible currencies;1 exchange certificates at present are only issued in U.S. dollars, but the Central Reserve Bank is empowered to issue certificates denominated in any convertible currency. Settlements in respect of trade transactions with Hungary and Poland must be made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars, which have been established under bilateral payments agreements. No other prescription of cur- rency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Uruguay, and Venezuela may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the other central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Imports and Import Payments The import of a number of consumer goods that are considered nonessential is prohibited from any source other than LAFTA countries. Moreover, the import of a large number of manufactures included in the Na- tional Register of Manufactured Products requires the approval of the customs authorities, which is granted only in exceptional circumstances. Private sector im- ports require the prior authorization of the competent sectoral m in is try on the basis of an annual import fore- cast submitted by the importer. The Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector allocates exchange (in annual allotments to the individual importers) in accordance with the annual import forecast approved by the sectoral ministries; imports of goods originating in countries of the Andean Group are exempt from this 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU allocation system. The allocations are marked on indi- vidual importer's cards (tarjetas de importador). Pub- lic sector agencies may not place import orders without the prior approval of the Commission on Public Exter- nal Transactions and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Certain agricultural commodities, such as rice and wheat, may be imported only by, or within quotas set by, the Public Company for Agricultural Services (EPSA) or the Fish Meal Marketing Agency (Empresa Publica de Comercializacion de Aceite y Harina de Pescado or EPCHAP), and crude petroleum and petro- leum derivatives only by PETROPERU, a government agency. Certain industrial raw materials may be im- ported only by the National Enterprise for Industrial Marketing (ENCI), and the National Fertilizer Service (FERTIPERU) has the exclusive right to import and mar- ket agricultural fertilizers. Virtually all private imports valued at over US$2,000 (c.i.f.) must be made on a letter of credit basis. Pay- ments for the f.o.b. value of private sector imports, whether under documentary letters of credit or on a documentary collection basis, and for interest charges on foreign import credits, may be made at the certifi- cate exchange rate; however, payments for freight and import-related banking charges other than interest must be made at the draft market rate. Transport insur- ance contracts for imported goods must be placed with national insurance companies unless a specific exemp- tion from this requirement is obtained from the Banco de la Nacion, in which case premium payments are made at the draft market rate. The full c.i.f. value of public sector imports may be paid with certificates. The use of certificates for import payments requires the prior authorization of the Central Reserve Bank, which provides the foreign exchange to the commercial banks against delivery of the certificates. The commer- cial banks must present evidence that the entire amount represented by the certificates will be used for the im- portation of merchandise. The relevant shipping docu- ments and the bill of lading, together with the commercial invoice and the remittance letter issued by the exporter, must be forwarded to a commercial bank and presented to the Central Reserve Bank for registra- tion and validation. Submission of import contracts or other evidence supporting the transaction is required for advance im- port payments when the shipping documents are not available; in addition, the intermediary bank must pro- vide a guarantee equal to the sol value of the advance payment. If the shipping documents are not presented within 30 days after the utilization of the foreign ex- change, the Central Reserve Bank will collect the guar- antee and refund this sum only when the required documents have been presented. Minimum credit terms have been prescribed for many imports. For imports of capital goods valued at over US$10,000 f.o.b., at least 80 per cent of the value must be financed abroad through loans either from suppliers or other foreign creditors or from the Peruvian state 380 development banks, to be repaid in accordance with minimum credit terms set by the Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector. The state develop- ment banks may only provide such financing for na- tional enterprises and these loans, although repayable in soles, must carry an exchange rate guarantee. The Central Reserve Bank may authorize the sale of ex- change certificates only for partial advance payments of up to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value for imports of capital goods by the private sector (20 per cent of the c.i.f. value for public sector imports). These imports of capital goods must be covered by irrevocable documen- tary credits and the intermediary bank must guarantee refunding of the foreign currency if the import is not effected by the time the relevant documentary credit expires. For private sector imports of goods other than capi- tal goods from countries outside the Andean Group, the minimum external financing terms at the end of 1974 were as follows: (1) foodstuffs and pharmaceutical products were exempt; (2) a credit period of at least 90 days from the date of shipment was prescribed for cer- tain intermediate and finished goods; (3) the corre- sponding minimum period for all other goods was 120 days; (4) import shipments valued at up to US$5,000 (c. & f.) were exempt, up to a total value of US$50,000 a year for each importer. A maritime fre ight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean freight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical products, books, and coins. Public sector imports must, in principle, be shipped in Peruvian vessels. Payments for Invisibles Authorization is required in order to pay for invisi- bles with certificates or at the certificate rate. The trans- actions in invisibles that are eligible for the certificate market include government payments, profit remit- tances by branches of foreign companies operating in Peru, dividend remittances to foreign shareholders (provided that the original investment took place at the certificate rate), and interest payments on those loans for which amortization may be transferred through the certificate market. Remittances of net profits, including depletion and depreciation allowances, require a reso- lution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, a prior tax clearance, and the visa of the Central Reserve Bank. Moreover, in compliance with the foreign investment regime approved by the countries of the Andean Group, new foreign investments must be authorized and registered with the competent agency. Access to the certificate market or the draft market for profit remittances is determined according to the market through which the investment is made. Remittances of profits on foreign capital invested in Peru are limited to 14 per cent a year;2 foreign-owned enterprises may not pay royalties under new contracts to a foreign parent company or its affiliates; and the effective interest rate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution on a new loan from a foreign parent company or its foreign aff i l ia te may not exceed by more than 3 per cent the prevailing interest rate for first-class assets in the money market of the country in whose currency the transaction is denominated. Exchange for payments that are not eligible for ex- change certificates must be obtained in the d ra ft mar- ket, subject to the prior authorization of the Banco de la Nacion. For private sector payments in respect of a large number of current invisibles the sale of foreign exchange is authorized freely, either by the Banco de la Nacion or its agents, provided evidence is presented that genuine current payments are involved. These cat- egories include import freight charges, insurance pre- miums, the remuneration of technicians hired abroad, interest on loans for which amortization payments are permitted to be transferred through the d ra ft market, rental income, pensions, and commissions. Payments for royalties, patents, and trademarks require the prior approval of the contract by the competent agency. For certain other payments of the private sector basic allo- cations have been established up to which foreign ex- change is sold freely through the draft market by the Banco de la Nacion. These categories include expenses abroad connected with tourist and business travel, study, and fam i ly maintenance. The basic limit up to which foreign exchange for tourist travel may be sold is the equivalent of S /. 1,500 a person a day for a maximum of 30 days in any one calendar year for travel to any country. The Banco de la Nacion fixes basic maximum amounts of foreign ex- change which may be purchased annually by each eligi- ble company for business travel abroad by its officials. There is a travel tax, which takes the form of a tax on a traveler's acquisition of goods and services abroad (including the cost of passages and fares) of 10 per cent3 on amounts up to the daily limits specified above, and of 50 per cent on any amounts in excess of these limits; the minimum amount payable is S /. 50 a day for each day spent abroad. Exempt are residents traveling on official business and foreign diplomats. Travel for med- ical treatment or study abroad also is exempt. The tax is paid prior to departure on the basis of a sworn decla- ration specifying separately the amount of the fare, the value of anticipated services to be received, and daily expenses. Air and sea passages are in addition subject to a 7 per cent ad valorem tax (3 per cent for economy class fares). Foreign nationals resident in Peru must obtain a special travel permit for business travel abroad (permiso especial de salida y reingreso). Such permits cost S /. 1,000 and are valid for six months. The export of domestic currency in excess of S /. 1,000 by travelers is prohibited, but the Central Reserve Bank grants ex- emptions in special circumstances. Exports and Export Proceeds The Banco Minero del Peru has a monopoly over the export of precious metals, uncut precious stones, and PERU pearls, and the Empresa Minera del Peru (MINEROPERU) has a monopoly over all other mineral exports. EPCHAP has a monopoly over exports of fish meal, fish oil, and fish for human consumption. Coffee exports are controlled by EPSA. All exports are subject to license to assure the necessary supply of export pro- ceeds to the certificate market. Traditional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit con- firmed by a bank established in Peru; the latter must surrender the foreign exchange proceeds within ten working days of payment. In special cases, and with the authorization of the Central Reserve Bank and the Di- rectorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight drafts, provided that payment is received within 180 days of shipment. Exporters of nontraditional exports or local handi- craft articles are granted transferable tax credit certifi- cates (CATs) equivalent to 15-30 per cent of the c.i.f. value (of the f.o.b. value when the goods are shipped in foreign vessels). These certificates may be used by the exporter in payment of his tax obligations or may be sold to other taxpayers, who may use them for the same purpose. The Banco de la Nacion administers an export credit guarantee program and the Industrial Bank pro- vides or arranges export finance for nontraditional ex- ports. Traditional exports are subject to a special tax. Proceeds from Invisibles Most public sector entities other than the state banks must surrender their full receipts at the certificate rate; the exceptions are earnings from services provided by the Peruvian Shipping Company (Compania Peruana de Vapores or CPV) and the Peruvian Airline Company (AEROPERU), which are eligible for the draft market rate. All other receipts from invisibles must be sold in the draft market. Travelers may not bring in more than S /. 1,000 in Peruvian currency, but the Central Re- serve Bank grants exemptions in special circumstances. Capital All outward capital transfers require prior approval. In addition to government payments, certain capital payments on private account may be effected through the certificate market. The use of exchange certificates may be authorized for the amortization of foreign loans contracted by the private sector, provided that the for- eign exchange proceeds of the loan have been surren- dered to the Central Reserve Bank. Where such debt was contracted before October 9, 1967, certificate ex- change may be allotted by the Central Reserve Bank only to public utility enterprises, to earners of foreign exchange, for payment of debts to international organi- zations, and for payments of debts guaranteed by the State. Payments in connection with all loans received before June 17, 1971 and not channeled through the certificate market must be transferred through the draft market. The proceeds of all foreign loans received after June 17, 1971 must be converted in the certificate mar- 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU ket; amortization and service payments in respect of these loans are also settled through the certificate mar- ket. All exchange receipts that are not required to be sold in the certificate market must be sold in the draft market. Only the Banco de la Nacion may receive funds origi- nating abroad for deposit to foreign currency accounts maintained in the name of nonresidents; these funds and the accrued interest thereon may be freely disposed of by the depositor and are exempt from income and inheritance taxes until December 31, 1978. Foreign investment in Peru is governed by Decree- Law No. 18900 of June 30, 1971, which ratified the Andean Common Market's policy on the treatment of foreign capital, by Decree- Law No. 18999 of Octo- ber 19, 1971, and by Decree-Law No. 19232, Decree- Law No. 19307, Decree-Law No. 19971, and the legislation ruling the Peruvian exchange system. All foreign investments in Peru require the prior approval of the competent authorities with a view to channeling such investments to projects considered essential for the country's development. If they wished to enjoy for their products the advantages deriving from the duty- free program of the Cartagena Agreement, foreign companies incorporated in Peru as at July 1, 1971 had to agree, by June 30, 1974, to the gradual acquisition by national investors of shares in such companies so as to transform them into mixed or national companies during a maximum period of 15 years following the entering into effect of this regime. For this purpose, mixed companies are defined as those in which national investors hold between 51 per cent and 80 per cent of the capital, while national companies are those in which at least 80 per cent of the capital is owned by national investors. After June 30, 1974, the participation of na- tional investors in the capital of an enterprise had to amount to not less than 15 per cent; this participation must increase to at least 45 per cent after 10 years and to at least 51 per cent at the end of the 15-year period. In the case of foreign companies established in Peru after June 30, 1971, the 15 per cent participation by national investors must be secured at the time of the initiation of production. Foreign investments in firms engaged in basic industries or in m in ing activities (in- cluding petroleum production) and in firms which ex- port at least 80 per cent of their production to countries outside the Andean Common Market are exempt from the requirement of gradual transformation in to mixed companies; however, these enterprises do not benefit from the duty-free program of the Cartagena Agree- ment. All insurance and reinsurance companies that are not branches of foreign firms had to become national enter- prises by June 30, 1974, and all insurance and reinsur- ance companies established in Peru after July 17, 1973, had to be completely owned by national investors. Investment in the mining sector is governed by the General Mining Law (Decree-Law No. 18880) of June 8, 1971, which replaced the Mining Code of 382 May 12, 1950. Companies holding mining concessions may enter into mining contracts with the Government providing for special incentives and guarantees or may constitute mixed enterprises with government partici- pation of at least 25 per cent. Under the regime of mining contracts, the Government may grant to mining concessionaires initiating large-scale investment pro- grams tax incentives and guaranteed availability of for- eign exchange for transfers of (1) recovery of investment; (2) interest payments if the rate does not exceed the prevailing rate for similar loans in the finan- cial market from which the loans originate; (3) pay- ments for justified services; and (4) reasonable profit remittances, together with guaranteed access to the most favorable exchange rate. Mixed mining enter- prises may receive all the benefits and incentives which may be granted by special contract and, in addition, special tax reductions. Gold The marketing of precious metals and their import and export are governed by Decree-Law No. 18882 of June 15, 1971 and Supreme Decree No. 065-71-EF of the same date. The import and export of gold and certain other precious metals and of precious stones are the monopoly of the Banco Minero del Peru. All im- ports and exports of gold are settled in the certificate market. The authorities do not make foreign exchange available for imports of gold other than by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users. Domestic sales and purchases of gold may be carried out by industrial and professional users, provided that they hold licenses issued by the Banco Minero del Peru, but only M INEROPERU is au- thorized to make the initial purchase of newly mined gold and other precious metals. Residents traveling abroad may not take out jewelry valued at over S /. 50,000 unless it has been registered with the cus- toms (S /. 15,000 for trips to bordering countries). Changes during 1974 During 1974, the buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar remained unchanged in both exchange mar- kets. A number of commodities were added to the Na- tional Register of Manufactured Products. January 1. A M in is try of Commerce was established, to be responsible for certain activities formerly super- vised by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; the latter was renamed the Ministry of Indus try and Tour- ism. January 1. A decree-law was issued nationalizing a major foreign-owned mining company. January 15. Decree-Law No. 20505 introduced with effect from March 1 a special tax on traditional ex- ports. This tax was 10 per cent of the excess of the actual price over the reference value determined by the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the goods con- cerned. The reference value was set at the registered ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution price for 1972 plus 25 per cent. The tax would be levied only on 1974 exports. Implementing rules were issued on February 27 by Supreme Decree No. 051-74-EF and on June 11 by Supreme Decree No. 157-74-EF. January 29. Decree-Law No. 20519 approved the approximation of import duties to the minimum com- mon du ty of the Andean Group, by December 31, 1975. March 5. Exports of fish meal and fish oil, which had been suspended since November 7, 1973, were re- sumed. May 11. The Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector introduced a 180-day foreign financing requirement for private sector imports of goods other than capital goods, as follows: (1) All imports required the opening of a letter of credit denominated in foreign currency and with a term of at least 180 days from the date on the bill of lading; sight letters of credit were permitted only if payment was financed for at least 180 days by a foreign bank or any other foreign source. (2) Imports on a consignment basis required a letter of guarantee denominated in foreign currency and issued by a Peruvian bank in favor of the foreign exporter. These provisions did not affect imports of investment goods valued at more than US$10,000 (f.o.b.), for which payment terms of two-five years continued to be required, nor were they applicable to imports originat- ing in countries of the Andean Group. May 11. Private importers had to submit their import budget for 1974 to the Central Bank by the end of May; in order not to interrupt imports, importers were au- thorized to use up to 60 per cent of their previously assigned quota, insofar as this had not already been utilized. May 11. The presentation of importer's cards was required also for imports under letters of credit. Previ- ously, the system covered only those imports paid for in cash or on a documentary collection basis. May 25. Imports valued at up to US$200 (c. & f.) were exempted from the letter of credit requirement and could be paid at sight. No importer, however, could use this facility for more than US$2,000 worth of imports in a year. May 25. The Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector announced that it would consider appli- cations for 1975 for imports of capital goods and of goods with long delivery periods. June 21. Decree-Law No. 20616 provided that with effect from January 1, 1975 imports from Chile, Co- lombia, and Venezuela of goods not on the exception list but included in the PID (punto inicial de desgrava- cion) list would be subject to reduced import duties. June 30. The deadline under Decree-Law No. 19863 expired, which provided that all foreign industrial com- panies operating in Peru must sign a transformation contract with the Ministry of Industry by June 30. Such companies were to be transformed into mixed or na- tional companies, and at least 15 per cent of the capital must be held by domestic private companies. PERU July 1. The Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector issued new importer's cards for private imports; allocations were itemized according to cus- toms tariff headings. July 26. The Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector discontinued its policy of itemizing im- port allocations and established overall allocations. July 30. The President announced the "Plan Inca." It provided for progressive nationalization of various types of economic activity and contained a statement on the refinancing of external debts. Subsequently, it was announced that the Government would sign no new exploration contracts with foreign oil companies. August 7. The Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector authorized imports shipped prior to June 30 to enter the country even if no prior foreign exchange allocation had been granted; no letter of credit requirement was applied in these cases. August 12. An economic cooperation agreement was signed with Cuba. August26. Supreme Decree No. 220-74-EF made the Directorate-General of Customs part of the Ministry of Commerce. September 17. EPCHAP was given a monopoly over the export and domestic marketing of cotton and cot- tonseed (Decree-Law No. 20736). September 24. The basic exchange allocation for tourist travel was increased from the equivalent of S /. 1,200 a person a day (S /. 1,000 for Latin America) to S /. 1,500 a person a day, irrespective of destination; as previously, the allocation was available for up to 30 days in any one calendar year. October 1. The entry into force of the new general customs law (Decree-Law No. 20165 of October 2, 1973) was postponed un t il January 1, 1975 by Decree- Law No. 20747. October 15. Decree-Law No. 20758 authorized the Central Bank to issue certain commemorative gold and silver coins. October 30. The Board for Foreign Transactions of the Private Sector revoked the 180-day financing re- quirement for imports. No minimum financing was re- quired for foods tuffs and pharmaceutical products. The prescribed minimum credit term was reduced to 90 days for intermediate and certain finished products and to 120 days for all other goods (except capital goods, which remained subject to existing arrangements). In addition, the minimum financing requirement was waived on all import shipments of up to US$5,000 (c. & f.), up to a total of US$50,000 a year for a single importer. The letter of credit requirement and the guar- antee letter requirement were eliminated for imports costing up to US$2,000 (c. & f.). November 3. Supreme Decree No. 020-74- MINCOM of the Ministry of Commerce provided that consular invoices would no longer be required, with effect from January 1, 1975. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU December 17. Decree-Law No. 21028 redefined the functions of the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry 01 v-'OiiniicrL'C. e r*nmmt*rf*t* NOTES 1 The proceeds must be received in the currency in which the contract is expressed if it is one of the following curren- cies: Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Otherwise, export proceeds A t_ • j • T T O JH must be received in U.S. dollars. 2 Companies exporting at least 80 per cent of their produc- tion to countries outside the Andean Group and mining com- panics are exempt. 3 With effect from 1975 this tax was increased to 15 per cent for tourist travel and to 20 per cent for business travel. 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Philippine Peso. All exchange transactions take place in a free market. The Bankers' Association establishes daily a "guiding rate"; between December 31, 1973 and December 31, 1974 this rate moved from about P 6.74 per U.S. dollar to about P 7.06 per U.S. dollar. In spot transactions with their customers, commercial banks are required by the Association to observe certain mar- gins. The maximum and minimum spot buying rates are V2 of 1 per cent and 1 per cent below the guiding rate, respectively. The minimum and maximum spot selling rates are Y4 of 1 per cent and 1Y4 per cent above the guiding rate, respectively. The Central Bank of the Philippines, which is not governed by the Association's trading rules, makes its own purchases and sales of foreign exchange within the above margins required by the Association. Neither the Central Bank nor the com- mercial banks quote currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Interbank trading takes place at the Foreign Exchange Trading Center (FOREX), where the Central Bank from time to time acts as a buyer or supplier. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Cen- tral Bank, which issues circulars and memoranda to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Certain new foreign direct or portfolio investment in the Philippines re- quires the prior approval of the Board of Investments (BOI). Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds from exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Most payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether individual or cor- porate, without prior approval of the Central Bank. Nonresident accounts are permitted to be credited only with the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies and with peso income from, or peso proceeds of, conversion of properties (real or personal) located in the Philippines belonging to nonresidents. Nonresident accounts may be freely debited for peso withdrawals. However, with- drawals from nonresident accounts for transfer abroad are subject to individual application with supporting evidence, and to established limits where applicable, such as in the case of emigrants. Both residents and nonresidents may under certain circumstances maintain foreign currency accounts with authorized agent banks in the Philippines (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohib- ited. Imports of certain commodities are prohibited on grounds of health, morals, and national security and those of certain others, mostly agricultural commodi- ties, for protective purposes. There are no other quanti- tative restrictions on imports (other than imports of gold); however, payment for imports of specified com- modities is subject to prior approval of the Central Bank.1'2 Such approval is granted on a case-by-case basis for commodities classified under three consumer goods categories (unclassified, semiunclassified, and nonessential consumer goods) or for completely knocked-down parts for automobile assembly plants. Payments for imports of certain other commodities (wheat, raw cotton, and leaf tobacco) are permitted only if they are financed through certain official credit arrangements. Any importation of plant, machinery, equipment, and spare parts under deferred payments arrangements with maturity periods longer than 360 days is subject to prior approval by the Central Bank. If payment terms are cash or within 360 days, prior approval by the Central Bank is necessary for importa- tion by any single importer of nonagricultural machin- ery and equipment with an aggregate value in excess of US$50,000 within a calendar month, with the exception of (1) certified export-oriented firms, and (2) other im- porters who have obtained prescribed certification from the BOI. Imports from socialist or communist countries must be effected through NETRACOR, a government trading firm, with the exception that most imports from the People's Republic of China are handled by the Philip- pine International Trading Corporation. As a method of payment, commodities may be im- ported against letters of credit, on a document against acceptance (D/A) basis, or under open (O/A) arrange- ments. The use of the D /A and O /A procedures is limited mainly to firms with a history of importing under these arrangements prior to February 21, 1970; to producer firms established after that date and ex- pressly authorized by the Monetary Board to import under these arrangements; to producer firms that are export oriented, are registered with the BOI, or are franchised utility concerns; and to such others as may be approved by the Central Bank. Unless arrangements for such terms of credit are made, imports in excess of 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES US$100 (US$500 for books and supplementary read- ers) must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the day of shipment. Imports financed by im- porters' own foreign exchange or not involving pay- ments from the Philippines (so-called no-dollar imports) are allowed subject to prescribed conditions. Such permissible no-dollar imports are exempt from the requirement of opening letters of credit. At the request of an authorized agent bank or other financial institution, a firm may be "watch listed" by the Central Bank for arrears on its loan repayment commitments. A firm thus "watch listed" may not open import letters of credit without the approval of the Central Bank, which will allow the opening of letters of credit only after a schedule for the repayment of over- due obligations has been agreed upon. Furthermore, it is the practice of certain authorized agent banks to require 100 per cent deposit against the opening of letters of credit for such firms, compared with 25 per cent or 50 per cent in normal cases. Payments for Invisibles V ir tua l ly all payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. In principle, all other payments are permitted, w i thout prior approval of the Central Bank, provided that amounts of more than US$100 are substantiated by documentary evidence regarding the purpose and the amount applied for. However, there are certain limits and regulations established by the Central Bank for purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by resi- dents, remittances for educational expenses, mainte- nance and expenses of dependents abroad of residents, remittances of profits, dividends, and interest, royal- ties, and film and other rentals (see below). Exchange for travel abroad is made available by authorized agent banks as follows: (1) US$25 a day, up to a maximum of US$750 a trip (for exporters an additional represen- tation allowance of US$500) for each person for busi- ness or professional travel; (2) US$500 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to Africa, North and South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the Mid- dle East, and New Zealand; and (3) US$200 a year for each adult resident for nonbusiness travel to Guam, Hong Kong, Okinawa, the Republic of China, or any other neighboring country. Foreign travel by Philip- pine citizens, however, is not normally permitted. The following limits apply to exchange for educa- tional expenses abroad: for studies in the United States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tuition, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a month; and for studies in other areas, US$150 a month. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. Remittances for educational expenses and student maintenance abroad are allowed only to stu- dents working for a degree at duly accredited colleges or universities. 386 The following limits apply for remittances to depen- dents of residents: US$250 a month for each dependent living in the United States; US$200 a month for each dependent living in Australia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand; and US$100 a month for each dependent liv- ing in other areas. The maintenance allowances for de- pendents are allowed only for close relatives under certain conditions prescribed by the Central Bank. Remittances of profits and dividends (net of taxes) accruing to nonresidents out of net profits realized be- ginning January 1, 1973, are permitted in fu l l, provided that remittances are not financed from domestic credit resources. Profits earned and dividends declared before January 1, 1973 (which had been unremittable for some time) may be remitted over a period of two years. Remittances of royalties or rentals on patents, trade- marks, and copyrights are freely permitted (net of taxes) for contracts registered with the Central Bank, provided that (1) the royalties do not exceed 5 per cent of the wholesale price of the commodity which is manu- factured locally under the royalty contract (2 per cent in the case of marketing service contracts), and (2) contracts do not exceed five-year terms and do not include restrictions on the export of the product. Re- mittances of the producer's shares of earnings made on motion-picture films and rentals on television films are freely permitted, provided generally that the shares or rentals do not exceed 60 per cent of net proceeds from films. Foreign exchange within the above limits may be purchased, without prior approval of the Central Bank, for current payments for invisibles administratively withheld prior to November 26, 1969. Applications for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philip- pines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, minus any amounts converted into pesos. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers require prior authorization from the Cen- tral Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic notes and coins or checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos. Citizens of the Philip- pines and permanent resident aliens, when traveling abroad, must pay a travel tax of P 400 for first-class ship or plane tickets or P 300 for any other ticket. Exempt are, among others, foreign diplomatic staff and Filipino Muslims making their first pilgrimage to Mecca. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to South Africa and exports to Rhodesia of petroleum products and military equipment and supplies are prohibited. Exports of certain strategic ma- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution terials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are also prohibited. Other- wise, exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary ex- port permits upon registration of the exporter's report of foreign sales (except export permits for gold, which are issued by the Central Bank); reports of foreign sales for copra and coconut oil, however, are approved for registration only by the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks must sell to the Central Bank 10 per cent of their exchange receipts from export bills. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a draft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless collection of the pro- ceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. No shipment of exports will be allowed by the customs unless a certificate is issued by a bank stating that payment has been received or arranged by the bank. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed currencies within 30 days from the date of shipment (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank within 3 business days of receipt. An irrevocable letter of credit is required for all exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of China, Indone- sia, and Japan. Exports of perishable commodities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Under an "export deduction" scheme, export- oriented industries are allowed, subject to the prior ap- proval of the Central Bank, to use a part of their export proceeds for the repayment of the loans obtained for their imports of machinery, equipment, raw materials, and other requirements. An export tax is levied on the f.o.b. value of major exports. The rate is 10 per cent for logs, 6 per cent for copra, centrifugal sugar, and copper ore and concen- trates,3 and 4 per cent for gold, molasses, coconut oil, dessicated coconut, iron ore and concentrates, chro- mite ore and concentrates, copra meal or cake, un- manufactured abaca, unmanufactured tobacco, veneer core and sheets, plywood, lumber, canned pineapples, shrimps and prawns, bunker fuel oil, bananas, cement clinker, portland cement, and petroleum pitch and resi- dues. Certain traditional export commodities are sub- ject to premium export duties. The Philippine Exchange Company has a monopoly over the export of sugar. Export trade with socialist and communist countries authorized under Executive Order No. 384 is handled through NETRACOR, with the exception that most exports to the People's Republic of China are handled by the Philippine International PHILIPPINES Trading Corporation. Exports to the People's Republic of China require the prior approval of the Department of Trade. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within three business days by the recipient to an authorized agent bank. Philippine nationals employed abroad are per- mitted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with the Central Bank or authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philip- pines. To be eligible for credit to such accounts at the Central Bank, earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplomatic or consular establishments. Un- der a foreign currency deposit scheme, inward remit- tances by residents or nonresidents of foreign currencies for deposit in numbered foreign currency accounts are exempt from surrender requirements, pro- vided that the remittances neither represent current earnings or income of residents nor payments by non- residents pursuant to contractual obligations. Balances in such accounts are freely transferable abroad. Travel- ers may freely bring in any amount of foreign currency and up to P 500 in domestic notes and coins and checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange drawn in pesos, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coins. Capital All inward and outward capital movements, with the exception of certain banking operations and certain transactions related to financing of international trade (see below), are subject to the prior and specific ap- proval of the Central Bank. Virtually all payments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. For the purpose of the approval of new inward foreign investments (in kind or in cash) as well as new foreign borrowings, preference is given to projects approved by the BOI, export-oriented industries, and other (nonexport-ori- ented) industries not utilizing domestic credit re- sources. The law guarantees full repatriation of cash investments made after March 15, 1973 in (a) ex- port-oriented industries that have been certified by the Central Bank, (b) enterprises registered with the BOI, and (c) securities certified by the Central Bank and traded on the Manila and Makati stock exchanges. Minimum repatriation periods, however, are pre- scribed; thus, foreign investors must hold securities for at least 90 days before the proceeds become eligible for repatriation. Foreign direct cash investments made after March 15, 1973 and registered with the Central Bank are freely repatriable, except investments in domestic commercial banks, which if made after March 31, 1973, are freely repatriable and if made before that date are repatriable according to the schedule in (4) below. There are certain restrictions on sales of foreign ex- change for the repatriation of foreign direct cash invest- 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES ments made before March 16, 1973 and noncash in- vestments made after March 15, 1973, depending on the category of industry where the investment is made, as follows: (1) export-oriented industries certified by the Central Bank—repatriable in full but no annual installment to exceed the applicant's share in the net foreign exchange earnings of the firm in the preceding year; (2) enterprises registered with the BOI, producing import substitutes or exports but not included in (1) above—repatriable in three equal annual installments starting one year after the liquidation of investment, but no annual installment to be more than total net foreign exchange earnings in the preceding year; (3) enterprises registered with the BOI, not included in (2) above and not utilizing domestic credit resources—in four equal annual installments starting one year after liquidation of investments; (4) remaining industries —repatriation according to the following schedule: US$0.25 million or less, five equal annual installments after liquidation; US$0.25-0.5 million, seven equal an- nual installments after liquidation; and over US$0.5 million, nine equal annual installments after liquida- tion. During the period between the date of investments and repatriation, liquidation proceeds may be rein- vested, subject to approval by the Central Bank, in foreign currency deposits under Circular No. 343, gov- ernment securities, or shares of stock in export-oriented industries registered with the BOI or certified by the Central Bank. Without prior Central Bank approval, commercial banks may not receive credit from abroad other than credit arising from normal international trade transac- tions. They may, however, freely accept from nonresi- dents of foreign nationality deposits in nine scheduled currencies (Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars); such deposits are freely repatriable at the prevailing ex- change rate and are exempt from the 35 per cent with- holding tax. Nonbank residents may obtain suppliers' credits from abroad provided that repayment terms are within the limits prescribed by the Central Bank. The maturity may not be less than 5 years for amounts up to US$250,000 (with certain exceptions), not less than 8 years for amounts between US$250,000 and US$500,000, and not less than 12 years for amounts greater than US$500,000. For export industries, amounts exceeding US$500,000 are approved if the credit has a maturity of at least 8 years, inclusive of a 3-year grace period on repayment of principal; and for amounts less than US$150,000, 3 or 4 year maturities may be permitted depending on the amount of credit and the type of export industry. Interest rates may not be more than 1Y2 per cent above the prime rate of the lending country. Applications are not approved if the proposed project expands capacity in an industry deemed to be overcrowded, or for firms which are in arrears with government financial institutions. Sales of foreign exchange for amortization of loans are permit- 388 ted in accordance with the terms of loan contracts ap- proved by the Central Bank. The same applies for loan contracts registered with the Central Bank prior to November 26, 1969. For those not falling under these two categories, prior approval by the Central Bank is required for sales of foreign exchange for repayment of loans. The Management of External Debt and Invest- ment Accounts Department in the Central Bank main- tains a comprehensive record of credit taken up abroad by the public and private sectors. Emigrants may repatriate up to US$5,000, subject to verification by the Central Bank. The remaining liquid assets may be withdrawn in five years beginning one year from emigration. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involving any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to con- tracts or transactions involving assets within the Philip- pines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corporation, and to their exportation or importation. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transac- tions in securities between residents and nonresidents. Under the Investment Incentives Act of 1967, all investors in enterprises registered with the BOI are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred investments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to preferred investments. Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by for- eigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and normally at least 60 per cent of the outstanding voting capital stock of registered enter- prises in "preferred areas of investment" (mainly invest- ments related to the exploitation of export-oriented natural resources and the manufacturing of import sub- stitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U.S. citizens, corporations, and associations were given the same sta- tus for this purpose as Philippine citizens until July 1974. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises in which investment by non-Filipinos ex- ceeds 30 per cent and which are not covered by the Investment Incentives Act must obtain prior authority from the BOI in order to engage in any economic activ- ity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 70 per cent, permission from the BOI must first be obtained. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Producers of gold may be eligible for assistance un- der the Gold Industry Assistance Act (Republic Act No. 3089, as amended by Republic Act No. 6364 of August 5, 1971), irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. However, gold producers who wish to take advantage of the floating exchange rate (the "guiding rate") in lieu of the subsidy must export their gold production. Exports of gold (as principal product) are subject to an export tax of 4 per cent. Primary gold producers may sell their production, in the form of refined standard bars, to Authorized Gold Dealers of the Central Bank or retain it abroad for their own account for sale either to other Authorized Gold Dealers or in the free market abroad. Purchases by Authorized Gold Dealers from primary producers are based on current London market prices (as quoted in U.S. dollars, multiplied by the interbank guiding rate on the date of sale); sales by Authorized Gold Dealers or primary producers in the free market abroad must be settled in "acceptable" foreign currencies. Residents other than the monetary authorities, Authorized Gold Dealers, and authorized industrial users are not al- lowed to purchase gold abroad in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1974 January 16. Exporters required prior clearance from the Department of Trade before negotiating export sales to the People's Republic of China. January 31. Registered bookstores could import books and supplementary readers valued at not more than US$500 for each order without opening letters of credit. January 31. All proposals for foreign borrowings by the public sector required the approval in principle of the Monetary Board as to purpose and credit terms. February 16. Premium export duties of 20 per cent or 30 per cent were levied (in addition to the export duties levied under R.A. 1937) on certain traditional export commodities (logs, lumber, veneer, plywood, copper, iron, chromite, clinker, cement, copra, other coconut products, and sugar and molasses); the base price ap- plied was 80 per cent of the February 1974 f.o.b. prices. February 22. Agent banks could without prior Cen- tral Bank approval act on (1) imports on a "no-dollar" basis exceeding the authorized amount by not more than US$500, and (2) imports of empty bottles and containers for drugs. March 1. Agent banks were authorized to provide full foreign exchange cover for their outstanding regu- lar sight letters of credit. Also, restrictions were im- posed on agent banks' net foreign liabilities. They could PHILIPPINES not maintain at any time an oversold foreign exchange position in any foreign currency. They could not avail themselves of overdrafts or foreign exchange borrow- ings against existing credit lines or any other form of foreign exchange borrowings abroad without the neces- sary spot exchange cover or forward exchange cover purchased from the Central Bank under swap arrange- ments. Agent banks currently having oversold foreign exchange positions had to cover their deficiencies within 30 days. March 27. Agent banks were required to refer to the Central Bank for appropriate action all imports of com- pletely knocked-down motorcycles, motorcycle frame group parts, chains, and engine parts. April 1. The proportion of wood exports which could be in the form of logs was increased from 40 per cent to 80 per cent of actual log production; however, ex- ports of logs would be prohibited from the end of 1975. April 24. Central Bank Circular No. 401 revised the regulations governing transactions in gold. Gold pro- ducers no longer were required to sell their entire out- put to the Central Bank (at the equivalent of US$42.22 an ounce, calculated at P 3.90 per U.S. dollar) in order to be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Act (R.A. No. 3089, as amended by R.A. No. 6364). The new regulations, which took effect on May 2, in- cluded the following: Philippine primary gold producers could (1) sell all or part of their refined gold production to Authorized Gold Dealers of the Central Bank (as defined below), or (2) retain such refined gold production abroad for their own account for sale at some future date to Au- thorized Gold Dealers or in the free gold market abroad in accordance with the new regulations. Pur- chases of gold by Authorized Gold Dealers from pri- mary gold producers were to be based on the current London market price, as quoted in U.S. dollars, multi- plied by the interbank guiding rate on the date of sale. Commercial banks with aggregate resources of not less than P 1 billion and net worth of not less than P 100 million as of May 2 were designated Authorized Gold Dealers of the Central Bank; other banks, however, could be authorized by the Monetary Board to act as gold dealers, on a case-by-case basis. Authorized Gold Dealers could buy gold offered for sale by primary gold producers provided it was in the form of international standard gold bars refined to not less than 0.995 fine by refineries approved by the Central Bank. The purchase and sale of gold in the Philippines had to be made in Philippine currency, with the exception that sales of gold by Authorized Gold Dealers or pri- mary gold producers in the international free gold mar- ket had to be effected in "acceptable" foreign currencies. Authorized Gold Dealers could freely buy and sell gold among themselves or sell gold in the free gold market abroad, based on its current free market price. They could fix among themselves the daily inter- bank gold price which they could use as a guide in their buying and selling operations. 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Primary gold producers could borrow pesos from Authorized Gold Dealers up to 80 per cent of the value, based on the producer's assay of the gold shipment used as collateral, with maturities from 30 to 360 days and interest not exceeding 6 per cent per annum. Au- thorized Gold Dealers could borrow funds from the Central Bank either by discounting the promissory notes of gold producers with the Central Bank at 4 per cent, or by securing peso advances up to 100 per cent of the value of gold purchased outright from gold pro- ducers, for periods up to 360 days at an interest rate of 4 per cent. Authorized Gold Dealers could keep their refined gold with foreign and /or resident depositories. Refined gold purchased by Authorized Gold Dealers would form part of their foreign exchange assets, and Autho- rized Gold Dealers were to report daily to the Central Bank their gold transactions in the same manner as they reported their foreign exchange transactions. May 6. The import of unmanufactured tobacco was permitted under U.S. P.L. 480. May JO. Export bills with maturities of 30 days or less became eligible, for a period not exceeding 15 days, for inclusion as required reserves against margin depos- its on import letters of credit. May 16. Certain commodities, including rubber tires and tubes and some sporting goods, were reclassified from the banned list to the free import list (from nones- sential consumer goods to semiessential consumer goods). May 28. Agent banks were required to refer all ex- ports of logs to the Central Bank for verification. May 31. The permissible interest rate on borrowing abroad was reduced from 2 per cent to 1Y2 per cent above the prime rate in the lending country or over the London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR); for govern- ment borrowings under R.A. No. 6142 the permitted spread was narrower. June 11. The Philippine Exchange Company was given a monopoly over the export of sugar. June 19. Agent banks were required not to issue any export declaration for sugar exports unless the prior written clearance from the Sugar Quota Administra- tion was submitted. June 19. Presidential Decree No. 485 amended the Investment Incentives Act of 1967 and the Export In- centives Act. Benefits under these laws henceforth could be extended also to the service industry, includ- ing tourist-related activities. July 3. The preferential trade agreement with the United States (the Laurel-Langley Agreement) expired. July 5. Agent banks were required to maintain a balanced foreign exchange position for each "accepta- ble" foreign currency other than the U.S. dollar. They could not, on any given day, run an oversold or over- bought position exceeding the equivalent of US$250,000 in any "acceptable" foreign currency other than the U.S. dollar; the overbought position in bank- notes in any foreign currency not acceptable as part of 390 the nation's monetary reserves was limited to the equiv- alent of US$10,000 in each currency on any given day. July 9. The Central Bank delegated the processing of foreign exchange applications for travel abroad to the authorized agent banks. July 12. Domestic corporations with foreign partici- pation as of March 15, 1973 were authorized to remit dividends and profits to their nonresident stockholders, on a case-by-case basis, provided they had a record of such remittances prior to March 15, 1973 and provided they had a pending application for registration of for- eign investments being processed by the Central Bank. Previously, remittances of profits and dividends were allowed only on duly registered foreign investments. August 2. Presidential Decree No. 527 required the National Economic and Development Authority, jointly with the Philippine Coconut Authority, to fix the domestic and export prices of copra. This measure was revoked in September. August 2. The Central Bank granted authority to banks to roll over for up to 180 extra days any loans of 30 to 360 days' maturity extended against gold ship- ments. Rediscounting of rolled-over promissory notes with the Central Bank was also limited to 180 days, but further extensions would be granted if the prevailing price of gold were lower than that at which the gold had been originally acquired by the borrower. August 9. Nonresidents making cash investments duly registered under Circular 365 in Central Bank approved securities were henceforth freely permitted to switch their investments among such approved securi- ties, in single or multiple switches, and, pending rein- vestment, to lodge the sales proceeds either with the selling broker or in suspense accounts with agent banks. The 15-day time limit for reinvestment was re- voked, as was the requirement that peso proceeds had to be converted into foreign currency before reinvest- ment could take place. August 9. A new law, entitled Tourism Investment Program, 1974, qualified tourist enterprises for all ex- isting incentives of the Investment Incentives Act, as well as certain additional facilities. August 9. Monetary Board Resolution No. 1744 provided guidelines regarding the implementation of citizenship requirements in respect of financial institu- tions. August 26. Agent banks were authorized to act, with- out prior Central Bank approval, on applications by service contractors and petroleum exploration conces- sionaires for the importation of machinery and equip- ment, spare parts, and materials, provided that such imports (in addition to qualifying for the relevant ex- emptions from customs duty and the compensating tax) did not entail any payment out of the country's foreign exchange resources. September 2, 11, and 30. The Bankers' Association of the Philippines exempted a number of import commod- ities in the "essential" category from the 50 per cent margin deposit requirement, and reduced the require- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment to 25 per cent for several other commodities in that category. The exemptions included rice and corn, when imported by the National Grains Authority; raw materials for re-export, when imported by export enter- prises or manufacturers registered with the Export Pro- cessing Trade Zone; and machinery, equipment, and raw materials, when imported by the Textile Mills As- sociation of the Philippines for its members. September 9. Agent banks were instructed not to act upon any letter of credit or foreign exchange applica- tion covering the importation of the textile items cov- ered by the moratorium on the opening of letters of credit and/or the purchase of foreign exchange for tex- tiles. September 11. The Foreign Loans Guarantee Corpo- ration was established, a public sector agency that would, where appropriate, guarantee loans taken up abroad. September 23. A framework agreement was signed with the People's Republic of China. October 2. All export duties on wood products were suspended. October 17. Imports of new or used built-up trucks with a gross vehicle weight of up to 2,000 kilograms were suspended, irrespective of the manner of payment. November 5. Agent banks could without prior Cen- tral Bank approval act on letters of credit covering imports of goods importable under existing regula- tions, when involving increases in value not exceeding US$2,000 as a result of changes in unit cost, freight, insurance, and other forwarding charges. PHILIPPINES November 7. Sugar exports were suspended. They were resumed about two weeks later. November 18. Imports of electronic, integrated data processing machines and related devices required prior Central Bank approval, irrespective of the mode of pay- ment. November 19. A preliminary trade agreement with the People's Republic of China was signed. November 22. The Central Bank tightened the super- vision over the repatriation and surrender of the foreign exchange earnings of the tourist sector, in accordance with Circular No. 364 of February 26, 1973. November 26. The BOI issued a ruling regarding the approval requirements for the transfer between foreign nationals of foreign equity in local corporations, where the foreign equity exceeded 30 per cent and was in existence before December 27, 1968. December 23. Exports to South Africa were prohib- ited. NOTES 1 Authorized agent banks have been instructed not to ac- cept applications for letters of credit or foreign exchange in respect of specified textile products that are subject to a moratorium. 2 With effect from January 5, 1975 synthetic fibers and yarns were added, irrespective of the method of payment. 3 On January 5, 1975 the tax on copper concentrates was reduced to 2 per cent, with retroactive effect from January 1, 1975. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo. A central rate of Esc 25.50 — US$ 1 has been established, and Portugal avails itself of wider margins. Since March 19, 1973, however, no an- nounced margins have been observed and all spot transactions between the escudo and other currencies (except those of the overseas provinces) have taken place at fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1974 the authorized banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Esc 24.515 and Esc 24.743, respectively, per US$1. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the com- mercial banks charge buy ing and selling commissions but there is a tax of 0.15 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange.1 For settlements w i th countries w i th which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements,2 the U.S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dol- lars," while fixed exchange rates app ly to other agree- ment currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange w i th the Bank of Portugal. They are also norma l ly allowed to deal in foreign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market, but they are not expected to solicit such trans- actions in foreign marke ts and may be required to jus- t i fy the amoun ts of their sales of escudos to nonresidents. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter in to arbitrage operations in foreign markets. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell fo r- eign exchange in convertible currencies for the ir own account; their purchases and sales of bilateral agree- ment currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Purchases and sales of unquo ted currencies can only be made through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept depos- its in foreign currencies f rom residents or nonres iden ts and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange ho ld ings for all au tho- rized purposes, but the Ministry of Finance may set limits on their foreign exchange resources and in certain circumstances may requ i re that fore ign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Por tuga l; since December 31, 1971, the net foreign asset positions of the authorized banks have been subject to ceilings and since May 31, 1972 their gross foreign exchange holdings have been subject to ceilings. Capital held abroad by residents in the fo rm of fo r- eign exchange that is not subject to surrender require- ments may be transferred to other residents th rough authorized commercial banks at off ic ial rates of ex- change. Decree-Law No. 44699 of 1963 forbids direct transactions in foreign exchange between residents who are private persons. 392 There is no fo rwa rd exchange marke t, but authorized banks may enter in to fo rwa rd transactions with indi- vidual customers; the exchange rates may not be higher than the spot buy ing rate or lower than the spot selling rate of the same date, but the size of the commission is not prescribed. The commercial banks may cover open positions by entering in to swap transactions w i th the Bank of Portugal. The escudos issued in the overseas territories are at par with the metropolitan escudo. The parity for the Macao pataca is Esc 5.015 = pataca 1. Interterritorial payments are subject to transfer charges collected by the credit institutions concerned which may not exceed 0.6 per cent; this limit is 0.3 per cent for payments resulting from transactions in foreign currencies and settled th rough another overseas territory or through metropolitan Portugal. Interterritorial payments are also subject to a service charge. In addition, interter- ritorial payments which require the direct in terven t ion of the Bank of Portugal as agent of either the interter- ritorial clearing system or the interterritorial payments system are subject to a service charge of 0.15 per cent payable to the Bank of Portugal. Exchange Control Territory Por tuga l, the Portuguese overseas territories (An- gola, Cape Verde Islands, Macao, Mozambique, Sao Tome e Principe Islands, and Timor) and Guinea-Bis- sau constitute a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Mone tary Area or Escudo Area. Within the Escudo Area, in ter terr i tor ial payments are subject to exchange control (except in Macao); they may be made directly th rough commercial banks or channeled th rough special accounts ma in ta ined by the Bank of Por tugal (which is reserve bank of the Escudo Area, agent of the clearing system, and agent of the Monetary Fund of the Area) and the Exchange Funds of the ind iv idual overseas territories (either under the interter- ritorial paymen ts system or the interterritorial clearing system). Decree-Law No. 41,403 of November 1957 and Decree-Law No. 44,016 of November 1961 pro- vide that the foreign exchange regulations of metropoli- tan Portugal shall be applied in the overseas territories, subject to any local adjustments that may be necessary. Current payments f rom metropolitan Portugal to the overseas territories are in principle unrestricted, as are current paymen ts to metropolitan Portugal from most of the overseas territories. In Angola and Mozambique, however, transactions involving payments to metropol- i tan Portugal as well as to foreign countries are subject at present to a system of priorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Bank of Portugal on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formulated by the Director- ate-General of Foreign Commerce in the Ministry of Economy. This Directorate-General also administers the trade controls; import and export licenses ("bulle- tins") are issued by its Foreign Trade Division, or by other executive departments duly authorized. All im- ports valued at over Esc 5 million and all exports val- ued at over Esc 2.5 million are subject to prior authorization by the Foreign Trade Control Commit- tee. Practically all foreign trade transactions are subject to registration with the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal,1 or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Transac- tions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements2 are settled through clearing ac- counts maintained in U.S. dollars (for Greece, Israel, and Turkey), or in escudos or the currency of the part- ner country (for Czechoslovakia and the German Dem- ocratic Republic). In exceptional cases, payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Payments between the overseas terri- tories and foreign countries may be made either direct through the authorized banks of the territories con- cerned, or by means of the interterritorial clearing sys- tem, through metropolitan Portugal or another overseas territory. Within the Escudo Area, payments to metropolitan Portugal must be made in metropolitan escudos, while payments to the overseas territories may be made either in metropolitan escudos or in the cur- rency of the creditor country. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are de- scribed below. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per- sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Por- tugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authori- zation of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and duly authorized PORTUGAL in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries,3 (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal,4 (c) purchases or sales of foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal against escudos, and (d) transfers between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the form of overdrafts on the above accounts requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal and for amounts exceeding Esc 50 million with a maturity exceeding one year the approval of the Ministry of Finance is also required. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of per- sons resident or domiciled in countries with which Por- tugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresi- dent accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, mainly for reasons of health, public order, and the prevention of commercial fraud. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must have an import entitlement and must pay income taxes regularly. Prior registration (in the form of a "bulletin") is required for all imports valued at over Esc 25,000. Most imports consigned from and originating in the Portuguese overseas territories are free of restriction. A registration procedure is applied, however, for payment control purposes, and certificates of origin are required to ensure that goods originating in foreign countries do not enter Portugal via overseas territories. Certain products, such as cotton and some oilseed products, may be imported freely from the Portuguese overseas territories after local industrial demand has been satis- fied, but are subject to quantitative restrictions when imported from third countries. Special regulations are applied to sugar; imports from foreign countries take place only if supplies from overseas territories are insuf- ficient. Almost all imports from outside the Portuguese Monetary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quantitative restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bul- letin is equivalent to an import license. The validity of the bulletin is normally 180 days, but extensions are often granted. Baggage and imports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 25,000 do not require a bulletin, provided they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Payments for imports already 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL cleared through customs require the approval of the Bank of Portugal when made after the validity of the bulletin. Payments beyond one year after customs clearance always require the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are mem- bers of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foodstuffs, other agricultural products, certain natural or manufactured raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the negative list are subject to quantitative restrictions for protective reasons or under special regimes. A somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana, India, and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods liberalized if imported from other GATT countries are subject to individual autho- rization, which is granted on the merits of the case. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global or bilateral quotas or under individual authorization. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations; imports from East- ern European countries are generally licensed in accor- dance with bilateral agreements. There are bilateral quotas for specified agricultural imports from certain EFTA countries. Imports of non- liberalized industrial products, except for certain pro- tected steel products and automobiles, are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction when originating in EFTA or EEC countries. Special legislation provides that auto- mobiles must be assembled in Portugal. Imports of passenger automobiles of EFTA origin are allowed up to 150 units a year for each producer, while those of non-EFTA origin are allowed up to 15 units a producer a year for those makes not assembled in Portugal and, for other makes, up to 2 per cent of the number of passenger automobiles of the same make that were as- sembled in Portugal in the preceding year. Imports of some makes of EEC origin are allowed up to 75 un i ts a year for each producer. Imports of commercial vehi- cles for special purposes are free of restrictions. Imports of completely knocked-down vehicles from EFTA and EEC countries are free of restrictions, and allocations for imports from other GATT countries are available under special open licenses, subject to the use of certain m in imum percentages of domestic components. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made freely through autho- rized banks. Such payments to foreign countries are also generally free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions, but for most transactions ceilings are specified for amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized 394 banks may grant any foreign exchange up to the equiv- alent of Esc 30,000 a transaction for most types of invisibles, including income on imported capital. For tourism and other private travel they may grant to persons over the age of 18 the equivalent of Esc 20,000 a person a trip for an absence of more than three days or Esc 6,000 a person a trip for a shorter absence (half these amounts for persons 18 years of age or younger). For payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may effect freely payments for invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for pay- ments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above-mentioned limits. Resident travelers may take out freely domestic banknotes, foreign banknotes and coins, and other for- eign means of payment up to a total amount of Esc 20,000 a person a trip. The export of higher amounts requires the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior registration is required for all exports valued at over Esc 25,000. Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulletins). For exports to overseas provinces and to foreign countries, export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the primary purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and surrender reg- ulations. The export of a few domestically produced goods is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of mer- chandise whose value does not exceed Esc 25,000 do not require a bulletin, provided they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, w i th in the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign currency indicated in the bulletin, if payment is not received from a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the de- duction of commission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, from the total amount of the export proceeds subject to sur- render. Proceeds from In visibles Portuguese residents may receive freely payments up to Esc 500,000 for invisibles from residents of countries w i th which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements. Also, payments from residents of countries w i th which Portugal does have payments agreements may be received freely for invisibles listed in the pay- ments agreements. Receipts on account of all other invisibles require authorization by the Bank of Portu- gal, which is granted w i thout restriction once the pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution posed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Nonresident travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign banknotes and coins for their travel ex- penses; imports of notes and coins by nonresidents for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Returning residents may also bring in any amount in domestic and foreign banknotes. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay domestic or foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of ex- ternal transactions. Capital With the exception of personal capital exports up to Esc 100,000 for each transfer from Portugal (inheri- tances, settlements, dowries, and gifts to relatives), cap- ital transfers between Portugal and its overseas territories are subject to prior authorization by the Bank of Portugal; approval is also required from the authorities of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 million, the approval of the Minister of Finance and of the Minister for Interter- ritorial Coordination is required. For most types of transactions, however, authorization to export from Portugal (and to import into the overseas territory) is granted freely whenever the transaction is found to be a bona fide one. All capital movements between Portu- gal and other countries require prior approval by the Bank of Portugal; for transactions in excess of Esc 50 million whose maturity exceeds one year, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. Foreign investments in Portugal by residents of countries that are members of or associated with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- ment (OECD), EFTA, IMF, or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) are au- thorized freely if they involve activities that are of rec- ognized interest for Portugal's development and provided that no speculative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a majority of Portuguese capital; these include defense, public utilities, oil refining, and fishing. Furthermore, Decree No. 393/70 specifies cer- tain industries in which any domestic or foreign invest- ment is subject to prior authorization. The transfer abroad of the full proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment which originated in a bona fide in- ward capital movement from OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD countries is authorized without restriction. Foreign credits from OECD countries with a matu- rity of up to f ive years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the underlying commercial or service transaction. The acceptance of other foreign credits is normally permitted. The repayment of foreign credits and loans that originated in a bona fide inward capital movement is always authorized. Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the PORTUGAL capital involved is not considered indispensable for the national economic development. In practice, authoriza- tion is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or enlargement of existing Portuguese in- vestments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD country. They may also transfer such proceeds to other resi- dents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Portuguese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an insti- tution. Arbitrage operations in foreign securities car- ried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD countries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized freely; but if a transfer of foreign exchange to or from Portugal is involved, a prior autho- rization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by foreigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other OECD country are authorized automatically up to Esc 100,000 annually for a family and larger amounts may be granted on the merits of the case. Transfers by foreign nationals who have been resident in Portugal are authorized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a family when they return to their country of origin. Transfers on account of family loans, bequests, inheritances, and dowries to other OECD countries are usually autho- rized automatically up to Esc 500,000; for higher amounts, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are autho- rized. For bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD country at the time of death. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of life insur- ance policies due from Portuguese insurers are autho- rized in favor of the beneficiary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annuity certain, and Esc 50,000 for a sur- render value. Capital movements and transfers of assets in excess of the limits mentioned, or not enumerated in the pre- ceding paragraphs, or involving countries other than those mentioned above, are authorized on the merits of each case. The net foreign asset positions of authorized banks must not exceed 5 per cent of their current liabilities in domestic currency. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Portugual, and there is a free gold market. The pur- chase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance authorization from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of met- ropolitan Portugal takes part in the transaction or has an interest in it. The import, export, or re-export of 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special ad- vance authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Licens- ing of imports is relatively liberal but import authorizations for industrial gold are granted only to commercial banks and the Association of Industrial Users of Gold. Domestic sales of gold and of gold coins that are not legal tender are subject to a transaction tax of 20 per cent. There is a free market for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in the Portuguese Monetary Area may freely trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; set- tlement must take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets overall limits for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; au thor i ty to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Imports and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1974 January 11. In Mozambique the priority criteria for import licenses set by a decision of February 12, 1972 were modified. March. Angola and Mozambique signed an agree- ment providing for a reciprocal relaxation of import restrictions. April 25. Exchange transactions were suspended. They were resumed on May 2. April 26. The Bank of Portugal announced certain provisional modifications in the exchange control regu- lations. Among other things, the sale of foreign cur- rency to residents for travel abroad was limited to the equivalent of Esc 25,000 a person a trip. May 6. Decree-Law No. 187/74 revoked No. 2, Ar- ticle 3 of Decree No. 551 /71 of December 15, 1971. Export bulletins for exports to Angola and Mozam- bique henceforth could be issued without presentation of evidence that the importer had already obtained an import bulletin. Prior registration continued to be re- quired for exports to Angola and Mozambique. As regards merchandise transactions with the other over- seas territories, Article 7 of Decree-Law No. 44698 of November 17, 1962 remained in force. May 6. Decree-Law No. 185/74 limited the amount of cash that private individuals could withdraw from sight deposits to Esc 10,000 a week. This measure was revoked on May 27 by Decree-Law No. 218/74. May 6. Decree-Law No. 181/74 of May 2, as amended by Decree-Law No. 189/74 of May 6 (and enforced overseas by Executive Order No. 518 /74 of August 21), required the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for the export by travelers of foreign banknotes and coins, other foreign means of payment, and banknotes of the Bank of Portugal when their com- bined amount was in excess of the equivalent of Esc 30,000 a person a trip (except for nonresident trav- 396 elers who could prove they had entered the country with a higher amount of foreign means of payment a n d / or banknotes of the Bank of Portugal). It also prohibited the export by travelers of gold, silver, gems, antiques, paintings, art objects, and financial assets such as stocks and bonds. The exchange allowance for tourism and other private travel which could be granted automatically by authorized banks was changed from the equivalent of Esc 50,000 a person a year (excluding foreign banknotes) to Esc 30,000 a per- son a trip (including foreign banknotes). The amount of foreign currency that could without the approval of the Bank of Portugal be granted by authorized banks for other current invisibles was limited to transactions valued at up to Esc 15,000; larger amounts could only be authorized by the Bank of Portugal, subject to pre- sentation of relevant documents. Personal capital transactions up to Esc 100,000, which previously could be effected without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal, became subject to such prior approval. May 6. Decree-Law No. 191/74 created a Foreign Trade Control Committee within the Ministry of Fi- nance to license imports valued at over Esc 1 million and exports valued at over Esc 0.5 million. The Com- mittee was given authority to suspend imports of listed nonpriority goods and exports of listed goods whose sale abroad might hamper the orderly supply of the domestic market. May 30. Portugal signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. June 3. Decree-Law No. 238 /74 (enforced overseas by Executive Order No. 407/74 of July 3) permitted the exportation from Portugal and the overseas prov- inces, subject to prior export registration, of precious metals, gems, and art objects. July 1. Following the expiration of the bilateral pay- ments agreement with Hungary, settlements with that country took place in convertible currencies. July 6. Decree-Law No. 307/74 empowered the For- eign Trade Control Committee to license all imports valued at over Esc 5 million and all exports valued at over Esc 2.5 million. The Committee's authority to prohibit the importation or exportation of the goods listed in Decree-Law No. 191/74 was revoked. July 6. Decree-Law No. 305/74 abolished a law of 1966 which had required sugar producers in the over- seas territories to sell to metropolitan Portugal all sugar not consumed locally. September 4. Portaria No. 565/74 limited to Esc 20,000 the amount in Bank of Portugal banknotes that resident travelers could take out. September 9. Executive Order No. 565 /74 provided that authorized banks could grant travel exchange up to the equivalent of Esc 20,000 a person a trip for an absence of more than three days, or up to Esc 6,000 a person a trip for an absence of three days or less (half of these amounts for persons of 18 or under). The ex- port by resident travelers of foreign banknotes and ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution coins or other foreign means of payment could not exceed the amount of the allowances mentioned with- out the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal, which could also authorize larger exchange allowances. The amount of foreign funds granted had to be entered in the buyer's passport. A traveler remaining abroad for a shorter period than initially stated was required to present at the customs port of entry the difference in domestic or foreign currency between his allocation and his entitlement; the foreign currency component then had to be sold to an authorized bank within eight days of entry. September 10. Guinea-Bissau became independent. All settlements between Guinea-Bissau and third countries continued to be channeled through the Bank of Portugal. September 13. Three banks of issue were national- ized: the Bank of Portugal, the Bank of Angola, and the Banco Nacional Ultramarino. October 7. Travel agencies were required to seek the prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal before en- tering into contracts with foreign travel agencies or other foreign tourist institutions if such contracts in- volved direct payments for accommodation abroad. October 12. Decree-Law No. 540/74 placed the ad- PORTUGAL ministration of foreign trade control under a new agency, the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce, and defined its powers. October 16. Decree-Law No. 543/74 defined the conditions under which licenses to explore for and de- velop petroleum deposits in metropolitan Portugal would be granted. NOTES 1 The currencies dealt w i th in the official exchange market and quoted by the Bank of Portugal are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds ster- ling, South African rand, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, and Is- rael. Settlements with Greece and Turkey are also channeled through special accounts. 3 However, the intent of the monetary directives in force is to exclude the escudo from payments to nonresidents, and the Bank of Portugal authorizes such payments in escudos only in exceptional cases. 4 Sales of escudos are subject to the proviso that the com- mercial bank concerned may be required to inform the Bank of Portugal of the na ture of the transaction for which escudos are required. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution QATAR (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Qatar Riyal, corresponding to QR 3.94737 = US$1, and Qa- tar avails itself of wider margins. The Qatar Monetary Agency buys and sells sterling at no more than Y2 of 1 per cent either side of the middle rate for sterling based on the current London market rate for the U.S. dollar. The commercial banks' exchange rates for cur- rencies other than sterling are based on Qatar's rates for sterling and the London market rates for the curren- cies concerned against sterling. Qatar formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, with effect from June 4, 1973. Administration of Control The Qatar Monetary Agency is the exchange control authority, but there is at present no exchange control legislation in Qatar. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. Prescription of Currency Qatar has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa is prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. ports into Qatar are not restricted. There are no restric- tions on payments for permitted imports. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are proh ib i ted. Otherwise, all commodities may be ex- ported freely. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely regardless of the currency involved. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Paymen ts must not be made to or received from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Otherwise there are no l im i ta t ions on paymen ts for and proceeds from in- visibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, a l though paymen ts must not be made to or re- ceived from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Foreign participation in certain industrial enterprises is prohibited unless Qatar nationals control at least a ma jor i ty of the shares. Gold The mone tary authorities and all other residents and nonresidents, inc lud ing private persons, may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a license and w i thout payment of customs du ty or tax, import and export gold in any fo rm. Transactions in- vo lv ing Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa, however, are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and alcoholic beverages, firearms, am- munition, and certain drugs are subject to licensing for reasons of health, morals, or security. Otherwise, im- Changes during 1974 March 19. The prohibition on exports of crude oil to the United States was lifted. July 10. The prohibition on exports of crude oil to Denmark and the Netherlands was l if ted. 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Romanian Leu has been estab- lished with the Fund. The leu is officially defined as equivalent to 0.148112 gram of fine gold, yielding offi- cial rates as at December 31, 1974 of lei 4.97 per U.S. dollar (lei 6 per SDR) and lei 6.67 per ruble. There is no exchange market. The National Bank of the Socialist Republic of Romania quotes official rates also for cer- tain other currencies. Quotations for the 16 currencies defined as "freely convertible"1 (except those for the U.S. dollar itself) are based on their rates against the U.S. dollar in the countries concerned; for the U.S. dollar and other unquoted currencies, exchange rates are based either on the gold content against the leu or on the ratio between the currency concerned and the leu through the official rate against a third currency. For exchange rate purposes, payments for insurance and transportation connected w i th trade are considered as trade transactions. With the exception of capital transactions, non trade transactions with countries other than the socialist countries listed in footnote 2 are carried out at the official rate plus a premium of 141.45 per cent, resulting in a rate of lei 12.00 per US$1; the sale of exchange at this rate to Romanian citizens for private use is subject to an additional service charge. Some trade transactions are subject to a price equaliza- tion system. For imports, this system is applied only to primary raw materials. For imports of machinery and equipment, complex equipment, assemblies and sub-as- semblies, spare parts, materials, and consumer goods, the domestic delivery prices are determined by convert- ing the foreign price in to lei at a customs valuation coefficient, to which customs duties are added. The equalization system is designed to eliminate the effect on the earnings of exporters and importers of the d iffer- ences between domestic prices and foreign prices con- verted in to lei at a un iform settlement coefficient of lei 20 per US$1. For nontrade transactions with some socialist countries2 exchange rates are established by special agreements; for transactions with the U.S.S.R. this rate is lei 8.30 per ruble. Administration of Control Foreign trade is a state monopoly. Import and ex- port transactions are effected by authorized industrial centrals, producing enterprises, and foreign trade enter- prises. Foreign trade units have au tonomy in selecting their foreign partners and operate on a trade criteria basis, taking in to account prices, quality, delivery and payment conditions, etc. Import and export transac- tions are subject to authorizations granted by the Min- istry of Foreign Trade and In terna t ional Economic Cooperation. In the issuing of authorizations, both the provisions of existing trade agreements and criteria of economic efficiency are taken into account. Foreign currency proceeds from exports are sold to the Roma- nian Foreign Trade Bank; foreign currency required for import payments is purchased from that Bank. Ex- change control is administered by the National Bank and the Romanian Foreign Trade Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Roma- nia has bilateral payments agreements are made in cur- rencies and in accordance with the procedures set forth in those agreements.3 If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Permitted foreign payments may not be made in lei, and the im- port and export in any form of Romanian notes and coins are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts with the Romanian Foreign Trade Bank or with the National Bank. Neither justification nor au- thorization is required to open such accounts, except for foreign economic organizations and agencies, which have to show evidence of permission to operate in Ro- mania. These accounts are of three kinds: A-Accounts are maintained in convertible currency or in lei ob- tained for convertible currencies, gold, or other pre- cious metals (except silver); B-Accounts are maintained in nonconvertible currencies quoted by the National Bank, in clearing currency, or in lei received from the conversion of such currencies. Transactions in any indi- vidual B-Account may be effected in only one such currency. C-Accounts are maintained in lei received from legal sources. A-Accounts may be debited for payments abroad in any currency, for payments within the country, and for transfers to any other A, B, or C-Account. B-Accounts may be debited for all payments abroad in the curren- cies from which the funds were derived and for pay- ments within Romania. C-Accounts may be debited only for domestic transactions. The transactions per- mitted for the d ifferent accounts do not require any fu r ther authorization. Nonresidents may also keep ac- counts with the Savings and Consignment Bank. In addition, any bank may accept from nonresident cus- tomers time deposits in convertible foreign currencies, on which interest is paid at rates prevailing in interna- tional markets. Romanian citizens, including Romanians working abroad who transfer their savings to Romania, may open foreign currency accounts with the Romanian Foreign Trade Bank or the National Bank. The depos- its may be used for payments at home or abroad, or for exchange into lei at the official rate plus premium 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA (lei 12 per U.S. dollar). Receipts from abroad for spe- cial purposes for the benefit of Romanian citizens (such as the building of a house, the purchase of an automo- bile, the purchase of other goods or services whose prices are expressed in foreign currency, travel abroad, and education) are entirely paid out in foreign currency. In the case of certain other foreign exchange receipts from abroad, such as donations, assistance, or family maintenance, a proportion may be deposited in a for- eign currency account and the rest must be converted at the official rate plus premium. Imports and Exports The general policy targets for foreign trade are set at the central level, in accordance with the priority inter- ests for the development of the national economy. Im- port and export plans are drawn up by the basic economic units, producing enterprises, and industrial centrals on the basis of current and long-term needs. After their elaboration, the plans are correlated and integrated into the single national plan, which is a syn- thesis of the effective production and export possibili- ties and of the needs for imported goods. The foreign trade plan specifies only a limited num- ber of goods considered of particular importance for the national economy, especially raw materials. The major part of the plan is set for th as a lump sum, without being divided by importer or exporter countries but only distinguishing, according to the manner of settlement of exchange payments and re- ceipts, between the clearing area and the convertible currency area. Import and export transactions are carried out on the basis of authorizations issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Coopera- tion, for each commodity or group of commodities. The authorizations are not restrictive or discriminatory and are issued, at the request of foreign trade units, for all kinds of goods, regardless of origin. The Ministry may take measures with a view to equilibrating the balance of payments, for the protection of the public health, for reasons of national defense and the security of the State, etc., in accordance with the provisions of the GATT. As a rule, annual import authorizations expressed in value terms are issued to individual importing enter- prises as a lump sum, or for a single kind of product. The authorization stipulates whether import payments are to be made in convertible currency or under bilat- eral payments agreements, and in the latter case the country is also specified. Export proceeds must be sold to the Romanian For- eign Trade Bank. However, there is an incentive system for enterprises which receive more foreign exchange than anticipated. In such cases the exporting enter- prises may either retain part of the surplus foreign ex- change in excess of the quota due or convert the full amount of the actual foreign exchange receipts into lei and receive a premium in lei. In the former case, the 400 enterprise has the right either to utilize the surplus foreign exchange to make additional imports without fur ther approval, or to keep the amount concerned with the Bank in an interest-bearing account. The foreign exchange surplus may be used only for approved im- ports. If the surplus foreign exchange earnings are in a convertible currency, the exporting enterprise may con- vert the amount concerned into any convertible cur- rency. Invisibles All transactions in invisibles not connected with for- eign trade transactions require general or individual authorization given either by the Ministry of Finance or the competent ministry. For most categories of pay- ments in respect of invisibles, foreign exchange is made available automatically once the transaction has been authorized. For travel outside socialist countries an exchange allocation is provided up to the equivalent of US$70 a trip for each adult person for one trip a year. In addition, tourist agencies may organize group or individual trips payable in lei in amounts the equivalent of which may exceed the maximum allocations of for- eign exchange. Receipts from transactions in invisibles must be sold to the Romanian Foreign Trade Bank, and the foreign currency required for payments in re- spect of such transactions is bought from the same bank. Receipts in foreign currencies from travelers are converted at lei 12.00 per US$1. Travelers with perma- nent residence in nonsocialist countries, Cuba, or Yu- goslavia must convert at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other "acceptable" currencies) during their stay in Romania. Foreign diplomats and tourists may purchase certain domestically produced or im- ported consumer goods in COMTURIST shops, against payment in currencies of nonsocialist countries. The import and export of Romanian notes and coins by travelers is prohibited. Capital All inward and outward transfers of foreign ex- change must be authorized by the Ministry of Finance. Outward transfers of funds belonging to resident physi- cal persons are not normally permitted. For certain established categories, such as inheritances, reciprocal agreements have been concluded with a number of countries providing for automatic authorization of transfers of specified amounts to and from Romania. The Foreign Trade Law (Law No. 1 of March 1971) provides for the possibility of the establishment of joint ventures in Romania and abroad by Romanian eco- nomic organizations; under this law and enabling De- crees Nos. 424 and 425 of 1972, foreigners are also allowed to invest capital in joint ventures in Romania, up to 49 per cent of the total capital of the company concerned. The law and the decrees guarantee the repa- triation in foreign currency of the capital and the trans- fer in foreign currency of profits after taxes. By ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agreement the accounts of joint ventures may be kept in an agreed currency. Foreign physical and juridical persons may keep in bank accounts in Romania their legally owned foreign currency or lei funds; balances in foreign exchange ac- counts are transferable abroad. Romanian nationals working abroad may hold their foreign currency sav- ings in accounts opened with Romanian banks and use these funds for payments in Romania or abroad (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Gold Only the National Bank has authority to purchase or sell gold in any manner, at home or abroad. The Bank, in tu rn, authorizes certain juridical persons to hold gold, to use it, and to engage in gold transactions, in accordance with the law. The ownership by physical persons, for domestic and personal use, of jewelry and of artistic and cultural objects of gold, is not restricted. Changes during 1974 January 1. By virtue of Law No. 12 of June 20, 1973, a customs tariff for imports (attached to Decision No. 1395 of October 23, 1973 of the Council of Minis- ters) came into force, on an experimental basis, for one year. The tariff was applicable to imports from all countries, but there was a provision that it would not be applicable to imports of goods from countries with which trade is carried on, on the basis of international agreements and protocols, without the levying of cus- toms taxes. This provision aimed at offering Romania the possibility of taking part in the establishment of free trade areas or customs unions and in other arrange- ments envisaging the circulation of goods without ap- plication of customs taxes, while observing the provisions of the GATT. Article 75 of Law No. 19/1971 concerning the system of prices and tariffs was amended, and Article 76 of that Law was revoked. A Central Customs Committee was created, which had the task of supervising the application of the tariff sys- tem in line with Romanian customs policy. Articles 3, 4, and 5 of Decision No. 1395 established the prices at which capital goods, raw materials, and consumer goods would be delivered to the beneficiary importers, users, or enterprises. Article 6 exempted from customs taxes consumer goods imported under direct commodity-exchange agreements, as well as any imported goods sold for foreign currency. Only one column of duty rates was published; as a result, in the first year of application no special rates of duty were imposed on countries not extending most-favored- nation tariff treatment to Romania. Instruction No. 76 of December 3, 1973 of the Min- isters of Foreign Trade and Finance provided that for customs valuation purposes the external prices of im- ported goods should be calculated in lei on the basis of a customs valuation coefficient of lei 20.00 per US$1. ROMANIA January 1. Following the introduction of customs taxes, the equalization system was abolished for import payments. The use in trade transactions of a "uniform settlement coefficient" of lei 20.00 per US$1 instead of the official rate plus premium (lei 14.38 per US$1) con- tinued. January 1. Withholding taxes were introduced on various types of income accruing in Romania to physi- cal and juridical persons domiciled abroad. The rate of tax was 15 per cent for interest on commercial credits and 20 per cent for royalties, patent fees, and copy- rights. January 1. Following the accession of Cuba to the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, certain settlements with that country could take place through the multilateral payments system within the IBEC. February 14. The bilateral payments agreement with the Libyan Arab Republic expired. February 27. Decree No. 61 /1974 of the Council of State authorized the National Bank and the Romanian Foreign Trade Bank to pay interest on balances in for- eign exchange accounts maintained by foreign physical and juridical persons, irrespective of their permanent /esidence or the location of their headquarters, and to joint ventures operating in Romania. March 1. Nonresident accounts (A and B Accounts) henceforth were permitted to earn interest. Interest of 2 per cent or 3 per cent could be paid on accounts in convertible currencies, depending on the kind of ac- count and the amount and term of the deposit. More- over, banks were authorized to accept, at the request of customers, foreign exchange deposits on which interest would be paid at rates prevailing in international mar- kets. March 8. A General Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation, a Financial Agreement, and an Agreement on Banking Procedures were signed with Argentina. Romania granted a credit which was to be used for purchases of capital goods in Romania. April 2. Import duties on raw materials and primary products were suspended until December 31, 1974. An equalization system again was applied to import pay- ments for raw materials. April 2. The equalization system was modified for proceeds from certain "conjunctural" exports. The goods concerned were items whose export prices were reflected to some extent in the financial results of the producing enterprises, viz., wheat, corn, sunflower oil, sugar, sheep, cattle, live pigs, meat, softwood and beechwood timber, cement, gas, diesel oil, black oil, nitrogenous fertilizers, caustic soda, profiles, concrete iron, sheet iron, rolled metal, and a lum inum in lump form. April 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Tu- nisia expired. May 75. A commodity and payments arrangement with Pakistan for 1974-75 was signed, accompanied by lists of goods to be agreed upon annually. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ROMANIA July 30. Decree No. 175/1974 of the Council of State permitted foreign citizens domiciled in Romania, or preparing to take up domicile in Romania, to purchase, build, extend, and repair a house. All relevant pay- ments had to be made in foreign exchange. Where pay- ment was made in a convertible currency, the applicable exchange rate was the official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per US$1. For payments in other currencies, the exchange rates were those established by the Roma- nian Foreign Trade Bank in consultation with the Min- istry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and International Economic Cooperation. October 2. Decree No. 184/1974 of the Council of State revoked Decision No. 1639/1971 of the Council of Ministers. The premium on the official exchange rate for nontrade transactions (including tourism) with countries other than 11 socialist countries was reduced from 189.33 per cent to 141.45 per cent; the rate for the U.S. dollar in such transactions was changed from lei 14.38 to lei 12.00 per U.S. dollar, and the rates for other convertible currencies, including the Yugoslav dinar and the Cuban peso, also were changed. An addi- tional service charge was applied when Romanian citi- zens purchased foreign currencies of nonsocialist countries for noncommercial transactions for personal reasons. The fines payable by residents for nonobserv- ance of the obligation to surrender the foreign currency of nonsocialist countries would be calculated in lei at three and a half times the official exchange rate of lei 4.97 per U.S. dollar. These various provisions were applicable also in relation to Yugoslavia and Cuba. November 1. By virtue of Decree No. 184/1974 of October 2, persons with permanent residence in nonso- cialist countries, Cuba, and Yugoslavia were required, when staying in Romania, to exchange at least US$10 a person a day (or the equivalent in other foreign cur- rencies acceptable to the National Bank) into lei. There were various exemptions; these included children under 14, persons studying in Romania, correspondents of foreign media, and guests of socialist organizations and other juridical persons in Romania. December 23. Decree No. 234/1974 of the Council of State modified various commissions and taxes on banking transactions. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with the Syrian Arab Republic and Yugoslavia expired. NOTES 1 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Luxembourg francs, Neth- erlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Listed as Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, D.R. of Germany, Hungary, P.R. of China, Mongolia, D.P.R. of Ko- rea, D.R. of Viet-Nam, Poland, and U.S.S.R. 3 The countries w i th which bilateral payments arrange- ments were in force as of December 31, 1974 were listed as Albania, Algeria, Bangladesh, Brazil, People's Republic of China, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, India, Iran, D.P.R. of Korea, Leba- non, Mali, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and D.R. of Viet-Nam. (The bilateral payments arrangement with the Syrian Arab Repub- lic expired on December 31, 1974 and that w i th Sri Lanka on January 9, 1975; w i th effect from January 1, 1975, settle- ments w i th Yugoslavia were made in convertible currencies.) Settlements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, D.R. of Ger- many, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, and the U.S.S.R. took place through the multilateral payments system within the International Bank for Economic Cooperation. Furthermore, certain settlements w i th Sujgagore also took place through special accounts. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc. The central rate is RF 112 = SDR 1, and Rwanda avails itself of wider margins. The Na- tional Bank of Rwanda (the central bank) has estab- lished a middle rate of RF 92.84 = US$1 and quotes indicative rates for certain other currencies.1 On De- cember 31, 1974, the buying and selling rates for the Belgian franc were RF 248.82 and RF 253.84, respec- tively, per BF 100, and those for the U.S. dollar were RF 91.91 and RF 93.77, respectively, per US$1. The National Bank levies a fee (droit de dossier) for the validation of import and export licenses as well as transfer authorizations; the fee is RF 350 for import and export licenses or 2 per cent of the amount ap- proved for transfers other than import payments. Pay- ments by the Government and public sector agencies are exempt. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and for- eign trade is vested in the National Bank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are, in principle, to be determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, which comprises the Minister of Finance and Economy, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other mem- bers. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Zaire are made through special ac- counts. Otherwise, the following applies. The U.S. dol- lar may be used for all payments and receipts, with the exception that payments to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda must be made in the currency of the coun- try concerned. The Belgian franc may be used for all transactions with any European country. Payments from any country may be received in Belgian francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars; in addi- tion, proceeds from exports to Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda may be received in the currency of the country concerned. All foreign payments, except in border trade, must be made by bank transfer. Exchange trans- actions with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few types of goods, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources for reasons of public policy. All imports except baggage and house- hold effects of travelers and merchandise valued up to RF 20,000 2 (when settled in Rwanda francs) require licenses if payment is to take place in foreign exchange; these are issued freely and serve statistical purposes only. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses for all other goods must be submitted to the National Bank through an authorized bank on a form entitled Import License and Payments Authorization (Model I). The approval of an import license applica- tion constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. The National Bank grants global import licenses for certain essential commodities and for specified amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous operation. Licenses are examined at the Na- tional Bank only to avoid capital exports through overinvoicing and to ensure that importers (unless exceptionally authorized to do so) do not have recourse to domestic bank credit. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payments or per- mitted origin or place of shipment, but control is exer- cised to ensure that payments are made to the supplier country. Import licenses must be presented to the cus- toms officials when the goods are cleared through cus- toms. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance form, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs au- thorities. In practice, certain goods are imported mainly or exclusively from the People's Republic of China. In principle, payments for imports cannot be made prior to customs clearance and must be made within the validity period of the license; however, importers are authorized to pay by means of documentary credits upon shipment if their books are kept in accordance with the accounting rules of the Common Organization of African States. All imports are subject to a license validation fee {droit de dossier), which is RF 350 a license for most goods and 1 per cent of the value c.i.f. Kigali of the license, with a minimum of RF 350 and a maximum of RF 5,000, for specified luxury items (Group B). The same luxury items are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable when the license application is submitted and released when the import payment is made, i.e., normally upon customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles. Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, through the authorized banks, for transport, insurance, and other expenses connected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages —after income tax and social security contri- 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA butions and after deduction of 40 per cent of net income or RF 35,000 a month, whichever is higher—of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as independent traders; and for salaries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Payments in re- spect of transport charges on imports and exports can- not be made until imported goods have been cleared through customs or after the exchange proceeds from exports have been surrendered. Net profits and divi- dends due to nonresidents may in principle be remitted abroad in full, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents may not transfer their net income from rents, except upon their final departure. Residents may freely purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs, with the exception that the prior approval of the National Bank may be required when certain travel by persons of foreign nationality is involved. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel pur- poses are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the Na- tional Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign bank- notes declared upon en try minus the amount of their expenditures in Rwanda. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, baggage and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000,2 are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of For- eign Exchange (Model E). Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank, for certification. A declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zaire, payment must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the country; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days, except for min- erals shipped abroad for refining, for which the period is 180 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks within 8 days from their collec- tion. The collection of claims resulting from services performed for nonresidents must take place within 30 days of the date on which the claim falls due. Travelers 404 may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is covered by the Investment Law of May 4, 1964 or to the personal effects of a foreign national returning to his own country. Retransfer guar- antees, as well as an exchange rate guarantee, may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months; such inflows result mainly from swap transac- tions between Rwandese banks and their foreign corre- spondents. Commercial banks are not permitted to import or export domestic banknotes. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda for numismatic purposes only. With this ex- ception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1974 January 1. The statistical tax of 5 per cent ad valorem applicable to all dutiable imports was absorbed into the customs ta r i f f. January 7. Rwanda established a central rate of RF 112 = SDR 1 and continued to avail itself of wider margins. The currency was repegged to the U.S. dollar, at a rate of RF 92.84 = US$1. Previously, the National Bank applied a "central rate" of RF 230 = BF 100 and its "indicative central rate" for the U.S. dollar was RF 92.77 = US$1. May 6. Exchange proceeds from coffee ceased to be purchased at a fixed exchange rate of RF 85 = US$1. August 1. The monthly deduction applied to deter- mine the transferable portion of wages and salaries was increased from 30 per cent of income after taxes (sub- ject to a minimum of RF 25,000) to 40 per cent of net income (subject to a minimum of RF 35,000). The transferable portion of family allocations paid by the employer was increased from RF 1,000 to RF 2,000 a beneficiary a month. End-of-year bonuses, which previ- ously were transferable in full, henceforth were only transferable after deduction of income tax, local ex- penditures, and social security contributions. The ceil- ing of RF 80,000 a person a month on remittances of wages and salaries was removed. August L Rental income received in Rwanda by non- residents became nontransferable. November 7. Importers paying by letter of credit were permitted to pay upon shipment of the goods, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution provided they put up a deposit in Rwanda francs equiv- alent to 25 per cent of the amount due when opening the letter of credit and paid the remaining 75 per cent upon actual shipment. The transfer of the foreign ex- , « j , , , ! .., ,, u- • j change could not take place until the shipping docu- ments had been received. Letters of credit payable after shipment also were authorized but the cost of discount- ing could not be borne by the importer, RWANDA l Burundi francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Kenya shillings, Netherlands guilders, pounds ster- f Hng Swiss francs Tanzania shiilings, Uganda shillings, and zai'res. 2 Increased to RF 50,000 with effect from January 1, 1975. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On August 11, 1973, Saudi Arabia established a par value of 0.207510 gram of f ine gold per Saudi Arabian R iva l, corresponding at the time to SRls 4.28255 — SDR 1 or SRls 3.55001 = US$1. Saudi Arabia avails itself of wider margins. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency has announced a do l la r / r iyal par i ty of SRls 3.55 per U.S. dollar; it sells U.S. dollars to banks at SRls 3.555 per US$1 and buys f rom banks and the principal producer of petroleum at SRls 3.545 per US$1; these rates serve as the basis for exchange quota- tions in the market, the banks being permitted to charge up to Y4 of 1 per cent above and below the Mone tary Agency's buy ing and selling rates. The Mon- etary Agency also sells sterling to banks. All settle- men ts w i th Israel, Portugal and its overseas territories, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited; there are no other restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia formally accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Portugal and its overseas territories, Rhodesia, and South Africa is pro- hibited. No other prescription of currency require- ments are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for reasons of health or security. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Portugal and its overseas territories, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Travelers may freely import and export Saudi Arabian banknotes and coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents, but payments must not be made to, or received f rom, Israel, Portugal and its overseas territories, Rho- desia, or South Africa. The Foreign Capital Investment Law (Royal Decree No. 35 of February 24, 1964) pro- vides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Gold The monetary authorities and all other residents, in- cluding private persons, may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without a license and without payment of any customs du ty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Portu- gal and its overseas territories, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Changes during 1974 January 24. A subsidy was introduced on the import of rice, sugar, and f lour. On August 16, medicines, milk and milk products, meat, and edible oil were added to the list of subsidized imports. March 19. The embargo on petroleum exports to the United States was l if ted. July 10. The embargo on petroleum exports to the Netherlands was lifted. August 12. Royal Decree No. 44 /M reduced or elim- inated certain import duties, including those on many foodstuffs. 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The unit of its currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the intervention currency, be- tween the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of Vio of 1 per mill for transfers within the West African Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the Union. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Sene- gal's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Senegal itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are sub- ject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Money and Credit in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal, inward direct investment, and all outward investments. Part of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any infor- mation necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs (Directorate of Foreign Trade), including those for gold. Import certificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Certain settlements with Guinea are made through bi- lateral accounts established under a payments agree- ment.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Da- kar by authorized banks' foreign correspondents; such banknotes may be credited to Foreign Accounts opened by the latter with authorized banks in Senegal. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Portuguese, Rhodesian, and South Afri- can origin and /or provenance are prohibited from any source, and the import of certain other goods is prohib- ited from all countries except member states of the West African Customs Union. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to individual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area other than Mali are generally free of license and quantitative restriction; some goods, al- though free from import license, require prior authori- zation by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. Imports of virtually all goods from EEC countries and imports of some goods from former OEEC countries, the United States, and Canada are free of quantitative restrictions; such liberalized im- ports require only an import certificate made out by the importer himself. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agri- cultural producers. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 25,000 (c.i.f. or delivered at the border). The import licenses or import certificates enti- tle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened or eight days before the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported (if no documentary credit has been opened, on presentation of the bill of lading). Furthermore, payments for imports valued at CFAF 500,000 or less (but over CFAF 15,000) cannot be made prior to cus- toms clearance. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Af- rica are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are per- mitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Fur- thermore, authorized banks have been empowered to effect freely any payment abroad up to CFAF 15,000 on behalf of residents. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and roy- alties are also permitted. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 150,000 a year for each person (CFAF 75,000 for children under ten); any for- eign exchange remaining after return to Senegal must be surrendered. Applications for additional amounts of foreign exchange may also be approved. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 7,500 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 150,000 a person a trip, but not more than the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 may be taken out in foreign notes. The transfer of the full net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period; how- ever, for Mauritanian nationals working in Senegal the transferable portion is limited to 50 per cent or 80 per cent, depending on family status and residence, except for leave salaries, which are transferable in full. Resi- dent and nonresident travelers going to foreign countries may take out, in addition to any foreign ex- change allocation, up to CFAF 15,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African 408 Monetary Union, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry (minus the amount converted in Senegal plus any amount up to CFAF 50,000 reconverted by purchase of foreign banknotes), or if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000; other banknotes as stated above; and any means of payment, such as travelers checks, established abroad in their name. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tunny), exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to prevent certain re-exports. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must normally be collected within 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. They must be surrendered by sale on the exchange market not later than one month after collection when received in a non-Franc Area currency. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area may be re- tained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be col- lected, and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, within one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon entry and sell them to an authorized bank within eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and Portugal, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital move- ments between Senegal and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, ad- vertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal re- quires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs.3 Foreign direct investments in Senegal4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economic Affa irs before such investments are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Both the making and the liquidating of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be re- ported to the Minister of Finance and Economic Af- fairs and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as invest- ments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. Ex- empt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government and (2) shares that are sim- ilar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has previously been autho- rized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, subject to certain conditions, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrow- ing, does not exceed CFAF 40 million for any one SENEGAL borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such ap- proval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad requires prior authorization by the Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs. The Investment Code of June 12, 1972 (Law No. 72-43) provides various facilities and benefits for approved foreign investments in Senegal. Law No. 74-6 of April 22, 1974 provides special facilities for export industries established in the Industrial Free Trade Zone. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance and Economic Af- fairs. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a mi- nor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a combined weight of 200 grams. By virtue of Ordinance No. 60-21 of October 1,1960, bro- kers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs to con- duct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization (Decree No. 65-794 of Novem- ber 19, 1965). Furthermore, imports of ornaments re- quire the prior advice of the Senegal Office for Handicrafts (Office Senegalais de TArtisanat) and the Directorate of Mines and Geology (Notice to Import- ers of May 17, 1971). Changes during 1974 January 19. Subject to certain special provisions, the exchange control regulations applicable to foreign countries were formally applied also to Mauritania, by virtue of Circular No. 15. January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies within predetermined margins. An official deci- sion to this effect was taken by the Council of the West African Monetary Union on January 24. January 24. Ministerial Order No. 699/MFAE re- duced from two months to one month after the due date of the payment the period within which foreign 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL exchange proceeds subject to repatriation requirements must be surrendered. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Senegal also ceased to operate. The financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official exchange market and through For- eign Accounts in Francs. The relevant exchange con- trol regulations were issued in Senegal in June (Order No. 6.344 of June 27 and Circular No. 123 of June 24). March 29. New cooperation agreements were signed with France. April 19. Decree No. 371 made imports of sugar in any form, of any origin or provenance, subject to prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce. April 22. Law No. 12 gave the Government a monop- oly over the importation and distribution of cinemato- graphic films. April 22. Law No. 6 created an Industrial Free Trade Zone for export industries. June 6. Decree No. 446 made imports of various paper products from all sources subject to prior autho- rization by the Ministry of Commerce. June 10. It was announced that the phosphate mines were to be nationalized and that the State would ac- quire a majority participation in all future phosphate operations. July 30. Decree No. 779 created a Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement charged with the servicing of the ex- ternal public debt. NOTES 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common cur- rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mali. The agreement account was closed on September 30, 1970. 3 Including investments made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiar- ies abroad of companies in Senegal. 4 Including those made by companies in Senegal that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. 410 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Le- one. With effect f rom June 27, 1972, however, the leone was allowed to float w i th sterling. The Bank of Sierra Leone deals in sterling only and stands ready in trans- actions w i th commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = £ stg. 0.50, subject to a maximum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1974, the banks' buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were US$1.18 and US$1.16, respectively, per Le 1. Sierra Leone avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the M in is try of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell ex- change for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Im- port and export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Trade and Indus t ry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Transactions with Sterling Area countries as well as non-Sterling Area countries are subject to exchange control. Sierra Leone's regulations define the Sterling Area so as to include Sierra Leone and to exclude South Africa. Settlements with other Sterling Area countries usually are made in sterling or other Sterling Area currencies. Certain settlements with the People's Republic of China must be channeled through clearing accounts established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement.1 Authorized pay- ments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than the People's Republic of China and Rhodesia, includ- ing payments for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in ster- ling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any other foreign currency2 except Rhodesian currency. Receipts from exports to non-Sterling Area countries other than the People's Republic of China and Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External Account in the United King- dom, in leones from an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified currency3 other than a cur- rency of the Sterling Area. Receipts from exports to Sterling Area countries may be obtained in leones from a Sterling Area Account or in any currency of the Sterling Area other than leones. Settlements with Rho- desia and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside Sierra Leone other than residents of Rhodesia may be desig- nated External Accounts. Residents of Sterling Area countries may maintain Sterling Area Accounts de- nominated in leones. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to nonres- idents. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Af- rica are prohibited. Certain commodities4 from any source require individual import licenses. All other im- ports may be made freely under open general license from virtually any source.5 Foreign exchange is granted for all permitted imports, but not for insurance on imported goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to nonresidents require ap- proval, which for most current transactions is given freely. Insurance on imported goods must be taken out with insurance companies incorporated in Sierre Leone. For travel abroad, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 a calendar year. Applica- tions for larger amounts are considered on an individ- ual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allowance travelers may take out, regardless of destination, Le 20 in leone notes and the equivalent of Le 50 in foreign currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out for- eign currency banknotes, including sterling notes, de- clared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities sold to certain destina- tions, exports require individual export licenses. Ex- ports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The proceeds in specified curriences3 of ex- ports other than diamonds to countries outside the Sterling Area must be sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone within six months from the date of export, unless permission to do otherwise is obtained. By virtue of Public Notice No. 74 of December 7, 1972, the pro- ceeds from exports of diamonds must be obtained in a 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE specified currency or in a currency that is freely con- vertible into leones by the country of the purchaser, and must be sold to authorized banks in Sierra Leone. The buying and exporting of diamonds is carried out by five appointed firms. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified curriencies3 must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons entering Sierra Le- one may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes. The importation of domestic banknotes is limited to Le 20 per traveler. Capital Capital payments to nonresidents of Sierra Leone are subject to exchange control. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission from the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase foreign currency securities or real estate situ- ated outside Sierra Leone. Investments by nonresidents other than residents of Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained initially for the invest- ment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Act of 1954 imposes control on the issue and transfer of securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permis- sion if either the person acquiring the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside Si- erra Leone. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident outside Sierra Leone. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities regis- tered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside Sierra Leone, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for taking out appreciably more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs du ty concessions to foreign and domestic companies undertaking industrial or agri- cultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of business. By virtue of Public Notice No. 50 of October 11, 1974 residents of Sierra Leone must sell to an autho- rized dealer in Sierra Leone their holdings of gold and specified currency. Exemption is made for authorized dealers, diplomats, and those exempt sterling assets held prior to June 24, 1972 for which exemption has been claimed and granted by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Exempted securities may be sold outside the Sterling Area and any income therefrom may be retained in the Sterling Area or reinvested in other Sterling Area secu- rities. Any certificate of security purchased with the proceeds of the sale of securities exempted under this 412 permission is exempt from deposit requirements. Any assets held outside the Sterling Area by any foreign national temporarily resident in Sierra Leone also are exempt from surrender and deposit requirements, pro- vided exemption has been claimed and granted by an authorized dealer or by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic purposes. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely purchase, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean gold coins issued for commemorative purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold pro- ducers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal ef- fects of a traveler require individual import licenses. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and local gold producers. Travelers, however, do not require a license to take out personal jewelry if the value of the total gold and plati- num content does not exceed Le 200. Exports of un- worked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1974 January 1. Foreign exchange no longer was made available for insurance of imported goods. This action was taken in implementation of the Insurance (Amend- ment) Act, 1973, gazetted on October 16, 1973, which provided that insurance on imported goods must be taken out in Sierra Leone. February 28. Government Notice No. 206 an- nounced that with effect from April 15 the Comptroller of Customs and Excise would not enter goods imported unless they had been insured with insurance companies incorporated in Sierra Leone. March 15. The Government Diamond Office ceased to be the sole official agency entrusted with the buying and exporting of diamonds. May 8. Government Notice No. 509 abolished with effect from June 1 the import monopoly of the National Trading Company for a number of foodstuffs, includ- ing cooking oil, corned beef, refined sugar, tea, and coffee. Any importer could now import these goods without a specific license. June 28. The Budget Speech included a proposal for legislation which would introduce a 5 per cent tax on foreign travel tickets purchased by residents. The tax was not enacted in 1974. September 12. Government Notice No. 929 was pub- lished containing the general import license for 1975. It was amended by Government Notice No. 1086 pub- lished on October 31. The general license was applica- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ble also to the People's Republic of China, Hungary, and Romania. October 11. The Exchange Control (Surrender of Gold and Specified Currency) (No. 2) Order, 1974 (Government Notice No. 50) was published. It amended the regulations introduced by Public Notice No. 71 of December 4, 1972. November 1. The importation of domestic banknotes by travelers, previously unrestricted, was limited to Le 20 a person. November 14. The Exchange Control (Diamond and Other Mineral Export Payments) Order, 1974 (Gov- ernment Notice No. 57) was published. It required the proceeds of the sale of diamonds or any other minerals mined in and exported from Sierra Leone to be received by the vendors in the currency of the importing country or any other specified currency through the account of the Bank of Sierra Leone in the importing country, notified to them by the Bank of Sierra Leone. The Order was to come into effect on January 1, 1975. NOTES 1 A payments agreement concluded with Guinea in 1964 is inoperative. 2 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the leone. 3 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- SIERRA LEONE tuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 4 The "negative" list includes bacteriological products and other antibiotics, opium and cocaine derivatives and prepara- tions, medicines and pharmaceutical products, firearms, am- munition, explosives, unworked and partly worked silver, gold jewelry, meat, rice, seeds, flower bulbs, wheat flour, maslin flour, corn, certain other foodstuffs, raw tobacco, cer- tain textiles and textile articles, fiber suitcases, umbrellas, plastic footwear, cement, commodities of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (e.g., palm kernel and palm oil), live cattle, salt, certain oil refinery prod- ucts, all sizes of complete passenger automobiles, certain other motor vehicles, and certain parts of motor vehicles. 5 The open general license applies to Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Repub- lic, Chad, Chile, People's Republic of China, Colombia, Peo- ple's Republic of the Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gambia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Khmer Republic, Kuwait, Leeward Islands, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Luxembourg, Mala- gasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Muscat, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nica- ragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Romania, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Trinidad and To- bago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Windward Islands, Yugoslavia, Zaire, and Zambia. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore Dollar, and Singapore avails itself of wider margins. Since June 20, 1973, however, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate within an- nounced margins, and therefore all transactions other than those in Brunei currency take place at a fluctuat- ing exchange rate. The closing selling and buying rates in the Singapore foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were SS2.3110 and SS2.3115 per US$1, respectively, for telegraphic trans- fers. The authorized banks are free to deal spot and for- ward in all currencies. Forward cover for periods in excess of six months in respect of import or export transactions requires the prior approval of the Mone- tary Authority of Singapore, as does all forward cover on transactions of residents in the Asian currency mar- ket. Singapore and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and without charge, in the two countries concerned, at the commercial banks and with the monetary authorities. Singapore formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Monetary Authority of Singapore administers exchange control. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Division of the Ministry of Finance administers import and ex- port controls. Prescription of Currency Singapore has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Singapore has made no changes in the list of Scheduled Territories (covering Singapore and all other Sterling Area territories) which appears in the first schedule to the Singapore Exchange Control Act. All payments to and from the Scheduled Territories may be made in either a Scheduled Territory currency or a specified currency.1 Certain payments to Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. must be made through spe- cial accounts.2 Payments to other countries outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia may be made in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Scheduled Territories through an External Account, or in any non-Scheduled Territory currency other than Rhode- sian currency. Receipts from exports to other countries 414 outside the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesia must be obtained in either Singapore dollars or another cur- rency of the Scheduled Territories through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regula- tions apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other Scheduled Territo- ries are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless spe- cially restricted, are designated External Accounts. Ex- ternal Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Scheduled Territory currency, other than Rhodesian currency, sold to a bank in Singapore, with transfers of Singapore dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Scheduled Territories. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any non-Scheduled Territory currency other than Rhodesian currency. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior ap- proval. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific licenses depending on the nature and origin of the goods. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons. All imports originating in Rhodesia, South Africa, or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Specific licenses are required for (1) rice (excluding bran), irrespective of origin; (2) certain manufactured products, when origi- nating in Japan; and (3) all goods originating in, wholly or mainly manufactured in, or consigned from Albania, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Mongolian Peo- ple's Republic, and North Viet-Nam. License applica- tions for goods under (3) must be submitted through the intermediary of Intraco Ltd., which levies a sur- charge of 0.5 per cent on the c.i.f. value of imports from these countries. Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the prescription of cur- rency regulations are observed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Scheduled Territories may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal payments of a current nature to other countries, except Rhodesia, are also permitted freely. Authorized banks are permitted ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is in- volved. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic foreign exchange allowance equivalent to S$l 0,000 a person a year for travel outside the Sched- uled Territories and amounts in excess of this figure are allowed on application. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which is given freely. Unless special permission is ob- tained, not more than S$ 1,000 in Singapore notes and the equivalent of S$2,000 in foreign currency notes and Scheduled Territory banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Malaysia, and Brunei) may be taken out of Singapore by travelers; there is no restriction on the amount of Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei cur- rency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Malaya and British Bor- neo, that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Malaysia. Travelers visiting Singapore may take out any amount of foreign currency notes and Scheduled Territory banknotes (other than those of Singapore, Malaysia, and Brunei) that was declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to Canada, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States are subject to quantitative restriction, as are exports of transistor radios to member countries of the EEC. All exports of copra, scrap metal, steel bars, cement, rice, and a few other items are restricted. Other commodities do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$20,000 in value to countries outside the Scheduled Territories; this re- quirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are ob- tained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Act and are sold to an authorized bank, normally within six months of shipment. Export proceeds up to S$3 million for each recipient in speci- fied currencies may, however, be retained and may be used to make commercial current payments and any other approved payments to residents and nonresidents of Singapore. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing ex- change receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds, including the facility for the retention and use of up to S$3 million in specified SINGAPORE currencies for each recipient. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei currency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commission- ers of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, and other travelers may bring in such currency notes up to the equivalent of S$ 1,000; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Singapore, Malaysian, and Brunei currency notes. Permission is also required for the im- port of currency notes of India in excess of Rs 270 and of Indonesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and from other countries in the Scheduled Territories. Capi- tal transfers from Singapore to countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control ap- proval. Inward transfers of capital from such countries (with the exception of borrowing in non-Scheduled Ter- ritory currencies) do not require approval and the sub- sequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore for investment purposes also is exempt from individual exchange control approval; however, gov- ernment approval is required for investment in residen- tial property and in any vacant land other than land already designated prior to September 11, 1973 for in- dustrial or commercial use.3 Investment by residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia in Singapore stocks and bonds, whether quoted or not, is freely permitted in any currency, in- cluding Singapore dollars from an External Account. Proceeds from sales of Singapore securities held in Singapore and of other investments may be freely repa- triated by residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories; the approval authority for such transfers has been delegated to authorized banks. Borrowing from local banks by nonresident-controlled companies is not restricted. Investments by Singapore residents in countries out- side the Scheduled Territories normally may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; however, residents are permitted to invest up to certain prescribed limits in securities denominated in specified currencies or in deposits in specified currencies with authorized banks or with Asian Currency Units. The exchange allowance for cash gifts and personal loans by individuals is S$30,000 a remitter a calendar year. Singapore banks that have been licensed to operate an Asian Currency Unit, and thus to operate in the Asian dollar market, may freely accept deposits in spec- ified currencies and Scheduled Territory currency from an External Account from nonresidents of Singapore; banks require individual exchange control approval for corresponding borrowing or lending transactions with residents of Singapore. All transactions must be con- ducted over accounts held in the Asian Currency Units 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE of the banks concerned. Borrowing in the Asian dollar market by resident exporters to finance outstanding export bills is in practice unrestricted. Gold There is a free gold market in Singapore, to which residents and nonresidents have free access; settlements between residents and nonresidents must take place in a Scheduled Territory currency to an External Account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from nonresi- dents may be accepted in any currency or against debit to an External Account. Both resident and nonresident individuals and companies are permitted to import, hold, negotiate, and export gold freely; imports and exports require neither exchange control approval nor import or export licenses. A S$150 commemorative gold coin issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, is legal tender; this coin is treated for exchange control purposes as local currency and its export and import is dealt with in the same way as that of Singapore currency notes. The price of gold used for the manufacture of orna- ments is fixed by the Singapore-Chinese Gold and Sil- ver Merchants Association. On December 31, 1974, this price was about S$560 per tael for 24-karat gold and S$510 per tael for 22-karat gold. Changes during 1974 January 1. Take-overs and mergers became subject to a nonstatutory Code on Take-Overs and Mergers, administered by the Securities Industry Council. March 5. The reserve requirement on the net foreign interbank liabilities of foreign and domestic banks es- tablished in Singapore was reduced from 5 per cent to zero per cent. April 26. An export licensing requirement was intro- duced for transistor radios for export to member countries of the EEC. May 31. The Price Control (Rice) Order, 1974 came into effect. No one was allowed to import or export rice, or carry on any wholesale business in rice, without a license issued by the Price Controller. June 12. Unless otherwise specified, the value date for spot exchange transactions henceforth was two working days after the transaction date. July 12. The Control of Exports (Licensing) Order, 1974 listed all goods subject to export licensing. July 12. The Control of Imports, Exports and Trans- shipments (Endorsement) Order, 1974 listed all goods subject to safety, health, or other control requirements for import, export, or transshipment. July 12. The Control of Imports (Licensing) Order, 1974 provided that henceforth specific import licenses were only required for the following: (1) rice (excluding rice bran), irrespective of origin; (2) certain manufac- tured products, when originating in or shipped from Japan; and (3) all products originating in or consigned from Albania, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, the Mongolian People's Republic, or North Viet-Nam. As regards Japan, this measure removed the licensing re- quirement for 19 commodities or groups of commodi- ties. Among the items exempted from all sources were diamonds. December 27. Traders were informed that with effect from January 1, 1975 the special account arrangements for trade with the U.S.S.R. and Poland would cease, whereby 50 per cent of the proceeds of the import of goods of U.S.S.R. origin and 75 per cent of the pro- ceeds of the import of certain goods of Polish origin were to be used for the counter-import of goods manu- factured in Singapore. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dol- lars. 2 The Special U.S. Dollar Account arrangements for Po- land and the U.S.S.R. were terminated with effect from Janu- ary 1, 1975. 3 However, with effect from January 10, 1975 the approval requirement was revoked for residential flats or apartments in buildings of not less than six stories. 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118193 gram of fine gold per Somali Shilling, corresponding to So. Sh. 6.23272 = US$1, and Somalia avails itself of wider margins. The Somali National Bank carries out exchange transac- tions in some of the "convertible" currencies1 with au- thorized dealers at fixed rates, taking into consideration those in leading exchange markets in Europe; on De- cember 31, 1974, the Bank's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were So. Sh. 6.2327 and So. Sh. 6.3573, unchanged since 1973. The exchange mar- ket in Somalia comprises the Somali National Bank and the commercial banks, operating as authorized ex- change dealers in respect of transactions in foreign cur- rencies. There is a foreign exchange commission (including banking commission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transactions other than purchases and sales of banknotes. Authorized exchange dealers generally do not conduct forward exchange transactions on be- half of the public, although this is not prohibited. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce is the principal govern- ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all foreign economic transactions and to establish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The So- mali National Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" currencies,1 and to ap- point authorized exchange dealers. The two commer- cial banks have been appointed as authorized exchange dealers. The National Bank may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Commerce. An Advisory Commission, consisting of nine members, representing various ministries, the So- mali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, advises the Ministry of Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulations and control of foreign economic transactions. The National and Local Licensing Committees, usually consisting of members representing the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Au- thority, and the police, decide on applications for li- censes for imports and exports and for transfers in respect of services. The Somali National Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in re- spect of capital are authorized by the National Licens- ing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the provisions of Law No. 10 of February 18, 1960 on foreign investments, as extended and amended by Decree-Law No. 3 of March 3, 1968 and Law No. 17 of June 15, 1968. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the People's Republic of China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing ac- counts denominated in pounds sterling. Settlements with Egypt must be made mostly in convertible curren- cies; 50 per cent of payments for imports from Egypt and all payments for invisibles to Egypt other than those for Suez Canal dues are to be debited to Somalia's creditor balance resulting from the terminated pay- ments agreement with that country; other payments normally are channeled through special accounts de- nominated in sterling. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "con- vertible" currencies;1 however, residents are not per- mitted to make settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings or in "con- vertible" currencies may be opened with authorized exchange dealers by Somali nationals residing abroad and deriving income only from sources outside Soma- lia; foreign nationals and foreign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia; foreign persons custom- arily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they do not derive income (including export proceeds) from sources within Soma- lia; and by other physical or juridical persons individu- ally authorized by the Somali National Bank to maintain a nonresident account. Imports and Import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Is- rael, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. The import of a few commodities from all sources is temporarily prohibited for balance of payments rea- sons.2 Individual licenses are required for all other commodities. Some of these commodities may be im- ported only from specified sources.3 The state trading organization (the National Agency for Trade, Ente Na- zionale per il Commercio or ENC) is responsible, inter alia, for the import and /or distribution of certain com- modities received under aid programs. It also is the sole agent for the importation of animal and vegetable oils and fats, rice, wheat flour, coffee, tea, sugar, pasta, and certain other commodities. The Somali Petroleum Agency is the sole importer of fuel and fuel products, batteries, and rubber tubes and tires. The Pharmaceuti- cal Agency is the only agency entitled to import medi- cines while the Agency for Construction Materials is the sole importer of construction materials. Certain other commodities also are imported by state agencies only. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA If goods imported differ in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and international or- ganizations are subject to a statistical and administra- tive tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali National Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of the import license and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc.). Provided that the Somali Na- tional Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satis- fied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day fol- lowing the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise not actually passed through customs at the time of payment) provided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without documentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Pay- ments for imports from neighboring areas4 are permit- ted only by letter of credit and by cash against documentation. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unauthorized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are met. Transfers of salaries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to their foreign personnel by enter- prises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are normally allowed up to 50 per cent. The Somali Na- tional Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio, Hargeisa, and Burao. For tourist travel by residents, there is an allow- ance of the equivalent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is applicable to all countries, except Canada, Japan, and the United States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Nonresident travelers may take out without authori- zation any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out without authorization So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equiva- lent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign banknotes and coins. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. 418 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any destination may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export license is required for all other commodities. Bananas are exported only by the Banana Marketing Board. The ENC is the sole agent for the exportation of incense, myrrh, gum ara- bic, and charcoal. The export of salt, dried fish, and hides and skins also is a public sector monopoly. All export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may ex- empt exporters from the surrender obligation in respect of their export proceeds. Where no banks are operating, an advance payment deposit of 50 per cent of the value of livestock exports and 15 per cent of the value of other exports is required. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated, de- clared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized dealer within five business days after their receipt. The Somali National Bank may grant exemptions from the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins; they must make a cur- rency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers may bring in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali banknotes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960 (as amended in March and June 1968). In accordance with the provi- sions of that law, foreign enterprises must be registered with the Ministry of Planning and Coordination. For "productive" enterprises (i.e., those that engage in irri- gation, improvement of land, establishment of facto- ries, construction of aqueducts, and testing, analyzing, and drilling activities in connection with oil and min- eral exploration), profits may be transferred abroad freely up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested; the unused portion of this transfer right is cumulative for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 15 per cent, the transfer right for the succeeding three years is correspondingly increased. The capital itself may be transferred abroad beginning five years after the date of registration. Profits resulting from other foreign investments may be transferred abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital invested, and the capital itself may be trans- ferred abroad over a minimum period of three years, beginning seven years after the date of registration. The Ministry of Finance, upon the recommendation of other ministries concerned, may extend total or par- tial exemption to any enterprise from import and ex- port taxes, excise duty, income tax, and municipal tax for a period not exceeding five years. For investments registered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises regis- tered in or after March 1968 must, to the largest possi- ble extent, employ residents; a program for the substitution of resident employees for nonresidents is to be submitted, for the record, to the Committee on Foreign Investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for nu- mismatic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require permissions issued by the Somali Na- tional Bank; such permissions are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold im- SOMALIA ported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 karats within one month. Imports of gold are exempt from customs duty when originating in EEC countries and are subject to a 10 per cent duty when of other origin. Changes during 1974 May L All imports and exports were made subject to license. Imports of certain nonessential goods were restricted. August 1. Imports of butter, cheese, tomatoes, nonal- coholic beverages, ready-made clothing, textiles and related materials, electrical appliances and their parts, and small passenger automobiles were temporarily pro- hibited for balance of payments reasons. NOTES 1 The "convertible" currencies are listed as Djibouti francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Butter, cheese, tomatoes, nonalcoholic beverages, ready-made clothing, textiles and related materials, electrical appliances and parts, and small passenger automobiles. 3 The permitted origin varies from commodity to commod- ity; the specified sources of supply generally are Egypt and /or the U.S.S.R. Made-up articles and related products may be imported only when originating in African or Arab countries, member countries of the EEC, People's Republic of China, German Democratic Republic, North Korea, or U.S.S.R. 4 Aden, Djibouti, Mukalla, Ethiopia, and Kenya. 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per South African Rand. However, no exchange transactions take place at the par value. South Africa has since June 24, 1974 followed an exchange rate policy of independent managed floating. As at December 31, 1974 the South African Reserve Bank quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.4500 per R 1. Exchange rates are based on the Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against rand and the London market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. The commercial banks' spot rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were US$1.4537 buying, and US$1.4464 selling, per R 1. Subject to certain limita- tions, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct for- ward exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The Reserve Bank provides forward cover in U.S. dollars only; such cover is given to autho- rized dealers at a charge of 3 per cent per annum, for import transactions only. South Africa formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as of September 15, 1973. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securi- ties, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Otherwise, there are virtually no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa (defined for exchange control purposes as including South West Africa), Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these are regarded as forming, with the Republic of South Africa, a single exchange control territory, the Rand Monetary Area. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secre- tary for Commerce. Exchange licensing is the responsi- bility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. Appropriate ex- change for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable docu- mentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South Africa has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. All countries outside the Rand Mone- 420 tary Area constitute the Nonresident Area.1 Settle- ments within the Rand Monetary Area take place in rand only.2 Swazi banknotes and coins are convertible into rand at par without restriction, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Settlements with residents of the Nonresident Area, except Rhodesia, may be made in rand to and from a nonresident account and in any specified currency3 and, for outgoing payments only, in any other foreign currency.4 Settlements with Rhodesia may be made in rand to and from a local Rhodesian or other nonresident account, in Rhodesian currency and, for inward payments only, in any speci- fied currency. Nonresident Accounts The rand accounts of residents outside the Rand Monetary Area are divided into Rhodesian Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Rhodesian Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered in Rhodesia. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of Rhodesian currency and of any specified cur- rency, and with payments from local Nonresident or Rhodesian Accounts. They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South African residents, for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods, for payments to other local Rhodesian Accounts, and for the cost of purchases of Rhodesian currency. Nonresident Accounts are held by persons, firms, or companies (including banks) resident, domiciled, or registered outside Rhodesia and the Rand Monetary Area. They may be credited with all authorized pay- ments by South African residents, with the proceeds of sales to authorized dealers in South Africa of specified currency, and with payments from other Nonresident Accounts in South Africa. They may be debited for payments to South African residents for any purpose; for payments to nonresidents for any purpose, i.e., by transfer to a local Nonresident or Rhodesian Account or for remittance to any country outside the Rand Monetary Area; for the cost of purchases of any foreign currency; and for payments to the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa for short periods. Blocked Accounts are held by nonresidents of South Africa and are subject to exchange control restrictions.6 They represent mainly the proceeds from sales of South African securities by a nonresident of South Af- rica to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South Africa or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit with an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution authorized dealer, used within certain limits for the holder's living expenses while visiting South Africa, or reinvested in securities which are quoted locally; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in government, municipal, or public utility bonds, but not the national savings certificate series issued from October 1, 1974, the proceeds on redemption at matu- rity are freely transferable to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continu- ous period of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to nonresidents of South Africa only, of five-year transferable bonds of- fered by tender on a discount basis and repayable at face value in foreign currencies applicable to the domi- cile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may be used for direct investment in manufacturing enter- prises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the permissible transferable amount, and the proceeds of South African securities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad within three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favorable consider- ation is given to the release of such immigrants' funds, with the exception of funds of persons who had been South African residents (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods as prescribed on the relevant import permit. Im- port licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swaziland and (2) all goods imported from Rhodesia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, produced, or manufactured in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1975, as an- nounced in December 1974, distinguish generally be- tween the following broad categories of imports: (1) Goods which may be imported without an import permit. This free list contains 483 tariff headings or subheadings and corresponds to some 25.3 per cent of 1974 imports. (2) Goods which may be imported only under permit but subject to automatic licensing for bona fide mer- chants and manufacturers. These fall under an unspeci- fied number of tariff headings or subheadings and correspond to 56.1 per cent of 1974 imports. (3) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which global quotas are determined from time to time. These account for about 5.6 per cent of 1974 imports. (4) Goods which may be imported only under permit and for which specific permits authorizing the import of these goods individually are issued. They cover some 13.0 per cent of 1974 imports. SOUTH AFRICA Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presentation to his bank of the necessary consign- ment documents (proof of importation), an importer is automatically granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. All payments to nonresidents of the Rand Monetary Area for current invisibles require exchange licenses. Authority is, how- ever, delegated to the commercial banks to approve certain payments without limitation and others up to established limits. For current income payments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that ac- crue in South Africa, approval is given by the autho- rized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that the relative royalty agreement was ap- proved by the Department of Industries and the Re- serve Bank and the profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. In- come derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely trans- ferable to the owner's country of residence. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, fam- ily maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allow- ance for tourist travel in a year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 500 for an adult (R 200 for a child under 12) for travel to Malawi, Rhodesia, Zaire, Zambia, and Portu- guese East and West Africa. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South Africa for destinations out- side the Rand Monetary Area may take out not more than the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes. South Afri- can Reserve Bank notes, however, may not exceed R 50 but are not regarded as being part of the basic travel allowance. Foreign visitors leaving South Africa within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 5Q in Reserve Bank notes and any amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained from the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These limitations on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of Bantu returning to neighbor- ing countries, who are permitted to take with them reasonable amounts in the form of banknotes repre- senting their earnings in South Africa. There are no limitations on the export of domestic currency to Bot- swana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in rela- tively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, re- quire licenses irrespective of destination (with the ex- ception of exports to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). Certain other goods are controlled for stra- tegic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to all destinations but no import certificate is required where the goods are exported to the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods to countries outside the Rand Monetary Area is controlled to pre- vent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within six months from the date of ship- ment and 30 days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless ex- emption is obtained. Upon entry from countries outside the Rand Monetary Area, residents and nonresidents may bring in R 50 in South African Reserve Bank notes. There are no limitations on the import of domes- tic currency from Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. Capital* Inward capital transfers require exchange control ap- proval; all inward loan transfers require specific ap- proval,7 while inward transfers in respect of equity capital are freely permitted. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capital transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents to destinations outside the Rand Monetary Area require the approval of the South African Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed; when falling under the Securities Control Notices, transfers to Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland also require prior approval. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresi- dent-controlled firms is subject to limitation. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on the external stock exchanges are gener- ally not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from existing hold- ings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to pre- vent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South African residents to retain in, or transfer to, neighboring territories (this term excludes Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland) funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing projects that are owned or con- 422 trolled by South Africans are considered by the South African Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits. For three years after their arrival in South Africa, immigrants (excluding former South African residents) may dispose of their foreign assets (including foreign cash funds) held outside the Rand Monetary Area or otherwise invest them (including by purchase of South African securities abroad). The proceeds from the sale of all South African securities brought in by immi- grants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed freely (except for former South African residents) on amounts up to R 20,000 or, subject to Reserve Bank approval, on additional amounts, to enable the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. The proceeds of the sale of South African securities by nonresidents of South Africa to residents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the autho- rized banks without reference to the South African Re- serve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of South Africa of the proceeds on maturity of government, municipal, and public utility bonds and national savings certifi- cates (except those issued on October 1, 1974), pro- vided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired after June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered contin- uously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents of South Africa by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not ex- ceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of any bal- ance of up to R 50 left over from the reinvestment of blocked funds; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident beneficiary from the proceeds of legacies from estates in South Africa that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant families whose net assets do not exceed R 20,000 may h av eR 10,000 transferred outside South Africa as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the per- missible transferable amount is blocked, and the value of any foreign assets is deducted from the applicable settling-in allowance. Emigrants may, however, utilize such blocked funds up to an amount of R 30,000 a family unit to subscribe to the five-year nonresident bonds issued by the Government on a tender basis (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The South African Reserve Bank approves transfers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiar- ies of open or approved loan account balances or undis- tributed current profits, or for the transfer of any dividends by them, provided that the remittance does ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physical export from South Africa of nonresident-owned securi- ties is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowance. There are normally three ways in which holders of blocked rand (including holders resident in Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland) can repatriate funds from South Africa: (1) by tak ing up special nonresident bonds issued by the Government (see above) —these mature in f ive years, when the redemption proceeds may be w i thd rawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain government, municipal, and public u t i l i ty bonds and national savings certificates (except those issued on October 1, 1974) for at least f ive years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; and (3) by exporting South African shares bought on the Johannesburg stock ex- change, provided that they have been restrictively en- dorsed, and selling them outside South Africa at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South African quo ta t ion; on December 31, 1974, the corresponding discount on blocked rand was about 33.5 per cent. Gold Residents of South Africa may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Africa for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents of South Africa other than the monetary authorities, authorized deal- ers, registered gold producers, and authorized indus- trial and professional users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's re turn) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufac tur ing jewelers (subject, ex- cept for exports to Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia, to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manu- factured form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling price to the ulti- mate consignee). Furthermore, authorized dealers may without reference to the Reserve Bank allow residents to export for numismatic purposes currency coins, in- cluding gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant during a calendar year. The gold-mining industry sells its output to the Reserve Bank, except for sales effected on the industry's behalf in the free market. The Mint f rom time to time strikes gold coins with- out a face value (Kruger rands) that are legal tender but do not circulate freely in South Africa as currency; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold in other countries. Imports of gold are confined mainly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. SOUTH AFRICA Changes during 1974 January 16. New regulations were issued regarding the capital structure of foreign-controlled companies with exclusive prospecting rights in South Africa. Each such company was expected to secure the participation of a local company though it would not be obliged to make available a share of more than one quarter of the equity. April 26. An additional permit allocation of 40 per cent of total 1973 allocations was made for consumer goods, clothing, confectionery, and alcoholic bever- ages. (An initial allocation for 1974, equivalent to 60 per cent of total 1973 allocations, had been announced in November 1973.) Allocations were fu r ther increased to 120 per cent of the 1973 level on September 16. May 13. The exchange control regulations governing the concessions to immigrants and the settling-in al- lowance for emigrants were modified. The existing sys- tem, whereby all requests for concessions to immigrants and applications for settling-in allowances where total assets exceeded R 10,000 were laid before the exchange control authorities, was modified to the extent that authorized dealers were empowered to auto- matically grant concessions to immigrants and allow the release of up to R 20,000 of blocked funds. In addition, authorized dealers were permitted to grant settling-in allowances where total assets do not exceed R 60,000 in value. The purpose of these amendments was purely to ease the administrative burden on the exchange control authorities. May 13. Royalty agreements involving the local manufacture of goods henceforth had to be submitted to the Department of Industries instead of to the Re- serve Bank. May 14. The basic exchange allowance for business travel was increased to R 100 a day, with a maximum of R 3,000 during a calendar year. May 14. Import restrictions were fu r ther relaxed by the addition of a large number of items to the free list and the sh i f t ing of certain other items from the list of goods subject to specific permits to that of goods for which importers' fu ll reasonable requirements are li- censed. June 4. The Reserve Bank henceforth was prepared to consider favorab ly any application by local entrepre- neurs to borrow abroad for a period of not less than one year, where the applicant was unable to raise the credit from his local bank or the domestic capital market, and where such credit was necessary for manufacturing and other productive purposes, but not for property devel- opment. On August 20 the minimum maturity was re- duced to six months. June 5. A draft Financial Institutions Amendment Bill was gazetted. (An amended bill will be submitted to Parliament during the 1975 parliamentary session. Among other things, it will provide for the amendment of the Banks Act, 1965 to limit shareholding in banking institutions and bank controlling companies, and will 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA also provide for the reduction in certain circumstances of the shareholdings of foreign banks in such institu- tions and companies.) June 24. South Africa discontinued the existing prac- tice of maintaining a fixed rate of exchange between the rand and the U.S. dollar for lengthy periods and, in- stead, adopted an exchange rate policy of independent managed floating. The par value of the rand remained unchanged. It was envisaged that the rate for the U.S. dollar would only be adjusted when necessary in the light of foreign or domestic developments and not nec- essarily every day, every week, or at regular intervals of any kind. Under the new policy, the monetary authori- ties would not necessarily peg the rand to any weighted average value of all other currencies. June 24. Until further notice, the Reserve Bank quoted public buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars of US$1.5037 and US$1.4962, respectively, based on a new middle rate of US$1.50 per rand, with the same total spread of V2 of 1 per cent as before. (Previously, the middle rate was US$1.49 per rand.) On August 13 the middle rate was changed to US$1.47; several fur- ther changes took place in 1974. July 31. The number of Kruger rand coins made available to the domestic market every month was re- duced to 4,800 in order to increase their availability for export. August 14. It was announced in the budget that ex- emption from nonresidents' withholding tax on interest could be granted in respect of borrowing abroad for deserving projects. August 20. The Reserve Bank's commission charge in respect of foreign exchange purchased forward for the payment of imports was raised from 1 per cent to 2 per cent per annum. On September 5 it was fur ther in- creased to 3 per cent per annum. August 20. The Reserve Bank was prepared to favor- ably consider applications for forward exchange cover in excess of six months in respect of extended foreign credit granted to local importers of capital goods. September 2. Forward exchange cover for imports and exports was only granted to the parties concerned within seven days of their entering into the underlying foreign exchange transaction. September 5. Authorized dealers were informed that as from September 6, Swaziland would be issuing its own banknotes and coins, called emalangeni and cents, which would be convertible into rand at the Monetary Authority of Swaziland. The emalangeni would be at par with the rand but would not be legal tender in South Africa. Authorized dealers in South Africa could freely exchange emalangeni notes for rand notes at the Monetary Authority of Swaziland, at par, but subject to a normal handling charge. Authorized dealers also were informed that checks and other bills of exchange drawn by Swazi residents for payment in South Africa, Botswana, and Lesotho, must be denominated in rand; checks issued in emalangeni could only be accepted on a collection basis. 424 September 6. Botswana withdrew from the negotia- tions with South Africa, Lesotho, and Swaziland con- cerning an extension and revision of the Rand Monetary Area arrangements. Past arrangements would basically continue, however, until Botswana's central bank started operations. October 1. Blocked rand could be invested in three-year National Savings Certificates (Sixth Series) issued on October 1, 1974. On November 26 autho- rized dealers were advised that the proceeds on matu- rity of these certificates were not eligible for transfer to the nonresident holder. October 8. Blocked rand henceforth could also be utilized in respect of option money payable by nonresi- dent purchasers of a call. October 18. Exports of groundnut oil, sunflower-seed oil, cotton seeds, and cottonseed oil were prohibited, except under license. Licenses were not normally granted. November 22. The exchange allowances for travel to neighboring territories were increased from R 350 to R 500 during a calendar year for an adult and from R 150 to R 200 for a child. December 4. A further relaxation of import restric- tions was announced, to become effective on January 1, 1975. It provided for the transfer to the free list of 34 groups or classes of commodities that were subject to permit control, and for the transfer of 20 types of com- modities in paragraph 4 of the import control meas- ures, the importation of which was strictly limited, to paragraph 2, which implied that these goods would be licensed to meet the full reasonable requirements of importers. Furthermore, importers were given an ad- vance allocation for 1975 of 40 per cent of the total permits issued during 1974 for consumer goods, cloth- ing, confectionery, and alcoholic beverages. December 5. Agreement was reached with Lesotho and Swaziland concerning a formalization of, and cer- tain changes in, the existing Rand Monetary Area ar- rangements. Lesotho and Swaziland would have free access to the South African capital market. The Rand Monetary Area Agreement came into force on Decem- ber 5. NOTES 1 In the application of the Securities Control Notices, how- ever, the Nonresident Area comprises all countries outside South Africa, and thus includes Botswana, Lesotho, and Swa- ziland. Correspondingly, there are two definitions of resident status for exchange control purposes. 2 In September 1974 Swaziland issued its own currency, the lilangeni (plural: emalangeni), to replace the rand. Lilangeni banknotes are freely convertible into rand, at par, at the Monetary Au thor i ty of Swaziland, but they are not legal tender in South Africa. Checks and other bills of exchange drawn by Swazi residents for payment in South Africa, Botswana, and Lesotho must be denominated in rand. 3 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Fiji dollars, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kenya shillings, Malagasy francs, Malawi kwa- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cha, Netherlands guilders, New Zealand dollars, Norwegian kroner, Pakistan rupees, Portuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Seychelles rupees, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Uganda shillings, U.S. dollars, zai'res, and Zambian kwacha. 4 Foreign currency is any currency other than currency that is legal tender in South Africa. 5 Unlike the other types of nonresident rand accounts, Blocked Accounts can also be held by residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland. 6 For purposes of the application of the Securities Control Notices, a nonresident is defined as a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside South Africa. For all other exchange control purposes, a nonresident is a person whose normal place of residence or domicile is outside the Rand Monetary Area. 7 Approval is generally given for borrowing abroad with a maturity of at least six months by domestic entrepreneurs for industrial and other productive purposes, but not for prop- erty development. SOUTH AFRICA 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0126953 gram of f ine gold per Spanish Peseta. Spain avails itself of wider margins. The official in terven t ion limits for the U.S. dollar have been suspended since January 22, 1974. The official buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Spain on De- cember 30, 1974 were Ptas 56.027 and Ptas 56.197 per US$1. Official buying and selling rates for specified curren- cies 1 are fixed daily by the Bank of Spain acting in consultation with the authorized banks. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Bank of Spain, which publishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct. These rates are the same as the prevailing rates for the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Spain also quotes buying and selling rates for banknotes in specified foreign currencies on a weekly basis. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in foreign marke ts for spot transactions and forward transactions related to commercial transactions for up to 360 days; forward transactions with customers are restricted to currencies admitted to the Madrid foreign exchange market and to permitted import and export transac- tions with a ma tu r i ty up to 360 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, and Spanish Sahara constitute a single exchange con- trol territory. Administration of Control The guidelines on foreign exchange policy are formu- lated by an interministerial commission. The Ministry of Commerce is in charge of all administrative func- tions connected with the exchange control. The Bank of Spain is in charge of the operative functions (basi- cally, the handling of the external reserves). It is also responsible for the authorization of foreign currency loans to residents for nontrade purposes. Trade controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce. This Ministry also is in charge of the con- trols over Spanish investment abroad, private Spanish lending abroad, foreign financing of trade, and the reg- istration of foreign investments in Spain. Technology contracts must be registered with the Ministry of In- dustry. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles other than those with bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified cur- 426 rency,1 but in practice they are usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral pay- ments agreement countries2 are made through agree- ment accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are six types of nonresident accounts: Foreign Accounts in Pesetas for Payments in Spain (A Ac- counts), Foreign Accounts in Convertible Pesetas (B Accounts), External Accounts in Internal Pesetas, Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Curren- cies, Bank Accounts in Pesetas with Andorra, and Emi- grants' Accounts. A Accounts may freely be credited with (1) the coun- tervalue in pesetas of convertible currencies sold on the Spanish foreign exchange market; (2) amounts trans- ferred from other A Accounts; (3) amounts transferred from B Accounts; and (4) any interest payable on the account concerned. These accounts may freely be deb- ited for (1) any payment in pesetas in favor of Spanish juridical persons and Spanish or foreign physical per- sons legally resident in Spain (including payments re- lating to foreign investment in Spain); and (2) transfers to other A Accounts. Debits for the purchase of foreign currency for remittance abroad are not permitted. B Accounts may freely be credited with (1) any peseta collections generated in Spain that under existing rules are transferable abroad under powers delegated to au- thorized banks; (2) amounts transferred from other B Accounts; and (3) any interest payable on the account concerned. The crediting of amounts originating from A Accounts is prohibited. B Accounts may be freely debited for (1) the countervalue in pesetas of foreign currency acquired on the Spanish foreign exchange market; (2) any payments in pesetas in favor of Spanish or foreign physical persons legally resident in Spain, including those relating to foreign investment in Spain; (3) transfers to other B Accounts; and (4) transfers to A Accounts. All other entries on A or B Accounts require the prior authorization of the Bank of Spain. Private banks are required to make special noninter- est-bearing deposits in cash at the Bank of Spain, in an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of the increases after October 18, 1971 in nonresident-held deposits in A and B Accounts (demand deposits, savings account deposits, or time deposits at less than three months' notice), and in an amount equivalent to 50 per cent of the increases in such deposits when held for three months or more (100 per cent of any increase after February 7, 1973). Furthermore, banks are prohibited from paying interest on any nonresident-held peseta deposits in A or B Accounts, whether demand, time, or savings deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution External Accounts in Internal Pesetas are designed to hold funds accruing in Spain to nonresidents that are not transferable abroad ("blocked pesetas"). Balances are freely negotiable between nonresidents holding such accounts; if the recipient of pesetas does not hold an account of this type, he needs prior approval to open one. These accounts may be credited freely with (1) the full proceeds of the sale by a nonresident to a resident of Spanish real estate originally acquired with pesetas from an External Account in Internal Pesetas; (2) with receipts from the National Lottery (when no evidence is submitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange); (3) with interest received on balances held in these accounts; and (4) with transfers from any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. They may be debited for (1) payments of personal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (managers' personal expenses if the account is opened in the name of a juridical person); (2) the purchase of shares quoted on the stock exchange; (3) the purchase for the use of the account holder of urban and rural properties that do not represent investment for commercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes; (4) the purchase of National Lottery tickets; and (5) transfers to any other External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. All other entries on these accounts require prior authorization and the accounts may not be overdrawn.3 Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Foreign Curren- cies may be held by nonresident foreign nationals, non- resident Spanish nationals, and nonresident firms or banks; resident foreign nationals may maintain such accounts only if opened before January 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time deposits. The ac- counts may be credited with convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other convertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange market, and for conversion into pesetas, including the transfers to an A Account or a B Account. Overdrafts are prohibited except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Emigrants9 Accounts—Since October 29, 1970, com- mercial banks have been authorized to open savings accounts in convertible pesetas for Spaniards working abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most im- ports are admitted under the following arrangements: (1) free imports, (2) global quotas, (3) state trading, and (4) individual licensing, also referred to as the "bilateral import regime." All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Direc- torate-General of Tariff Policy and Imports. Provided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import declarations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly foodstuffs not under state trading, raw SPAIN materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilat- eral payments agreements; the free list also applies to specified imports from Iran and Japan.4 All other im- ports require licenses. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted for larger amounts.5 With certain ex- ceptions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for specified imports from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are issued freely. Imports of raw cot- ton, certain other agricultural products, some raw ma- terials, petroleum products, and tobacco are state traded; some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feedgrains, may in fact be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricul- tural products that are free of quantitative restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foodstuffs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for autho- rized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to exceed 90 days. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the intermedi- ary of the bank of domiciliation; exempt from domicili- ation are transactions whose value is less than Ptas 500,000 provided that payment is to be made within one year. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresidents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, for the purpose of check- ing capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large proportion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate documents. For certain services, trans- fers may be made freely up to a pre-established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount licenses are required which are granted freely. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies and acquired through di- rect subscription) may freely transfer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscription rights; the securities must have been pur- chased with convertible pesetas, with pesetas resulting from the sale of foreign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market, or with pesetas released on or after June 1, 1972 from External Accounts in Internal Pesetas.6 Profits and dividends on direct investments are also transferable abroad without restriction. Rents on nonresident-owned real estate are transferable, pro- vided the purchase price has been paid in full and the 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN owner has no outstanding tax liabilities applicable to the property concerned. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Span- ish firms or w i th foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Insurance contracts abroad may not be con- cluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 50,000 a person a year; however, amounts in ex- cess of this limit are approved free ly for bona fide tour- ist expenses. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equ iva lent of Ptas 2,000 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each trip. For larger amoun ts, the banks must apply for approva l, which is granted f ree ly for this purpose. Travelers may take w i th them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the Di- rectorate-General of Exportation. Exports to all desti- nations of olives for oil production are suspended, while other types of olives may be exported freely. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain th rough authorized banks. Certain agricultural exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from In visibles All exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the Bank of Spain th rough authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a max imum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation in Spanish industries of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is exempt from authorization, while investment that ex- ceeds 50 per cent requires the authorization of the Council of Ministers; for participation in Spanish ship- ping companies, or public service companies in general, the former ratio is 40 per cent or 25 per cent, respec- t ive ly .7 All foreign investment in a few specified indus- trial and agricultural sectors requires prior authorization by the Government. Foreign investment in Spanish companies manu fac tu r ing capital goods that are listed in the Appendix List of the Customs Code requires registration only; w i th in 30 days the registra- tion may be deemed authorization if no notification to the con t ra ry has been received. Foreign inves tment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected w i th national defense, while invest- ment in firms dealing with public informa t ion and in certain public services is subject to specific regulations. Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected either by transferr ing currencies that are nego- 428 tiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using con- vertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by rein- vesting prof i ts or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. All technology contracts require prior regis- tra t ion w i th the M in is t ry of Indus t ry. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the l iqu ida t ion of foreign direct investments made for the purpose of establishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies are permitted free ly up to the percentages applicable to direct inves tmen t. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with convert- ible pesetas or w i th pesetas resulting from the conver- sion of fore ign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, f rom the l iqu ida t ion of such shares may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for fu r ther purchases of shares. The above applies also to bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of Spanish companies; there is no limit on bond holdings. Inves tment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is freely permitted if financed w i th pesetas derived f rom convertible currencies or from balances in nonresident peseta accounts (A or B Accounts). The Bank of Spain has empowered authorized banks to provide the inves- tor with a document certifying that he owns such pese- tas; this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed f rom External Accounts in In te rnal Pesetas. Irrespective of the method of financ- ing, rural properties purchased may not exceed 4 hec- tares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. When Spanish real estate is sold to a resident, the fu ll sale proceeds are transferab le if the initial purchase was financed with convertible foreign currency or with pesetas f rom an External Account in Convertible Pese- tas, an A Account, or a B Account. If the initial pur- chase was financed w i th pesetas from External Accounts in In terna t ional Pesetas, no part of the sale proceeds is transferab le. Outward capital t rans fe rs by residents require ap- proval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liberally, provided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. No authorization is required for such in- vestments when undertaken by Spanish enterprises with net assets in Spain of at least Ptas 100 million, provided that the f irm's total foreign investments do not exceed 40 per cent of its assets in Spain. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restric- tions. Portfolio investments by all residents and pur- chases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. However, registered investment funds with assets of at least Ptas 1 billion are permitted to place up to 10 per cent of their assets in foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution securities that are officially quoted on specified stock exchanges abroad. Approval of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those ap- plied to residents' requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits from Spanish residents to nonresidents require authorization by the Director- ate-General of Exportation; such authorization accom- panies the export license. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits granted by Spanish banks to nonresidents other than certain export credit granted direct to foreign importers. Credits to nonresidents for transactions with Spain may, however, be authorized by the Ministry of Commerce. Also, the authorized banks may extend various types of credit to nonresi- dents, provided that this credit is financed with funds deposited in Spain in nonresident convertible currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the Ministry of Commerce. Local borrowing at medium term or long term by Spanish firms with foreign participation in excess of 25 per cent is subject to special directives. For transfers abroad of bona fide inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By law, only the Bank of Spain is allowed to import or export gold; industrial requirements are met by imports effected by the Bank of Spain. There is a global quota for imports of gold from member countries of the EEC. Changes during 1974 January 1. Settlements with the German Democratic Republic were placed on a convertible currency basis. Subsequently, the German Democratic Republic was included among the countries to which the import free list and the global import quotas are applicable. January 3. The global quotas for 1974 were pub- lished, totaling Ptas 16.8 billion. January 18. Decree No. 75 reduced most import duties by 5 per cent for three months. Exceptions were goods subject to import duties below 5 per cent, as well as certain textiles and petrochemicals on which duties had already been reduced or suspended. January 22. Spain ceased to observe, for the time being, the previously announced margins for the U.S. dollar, of Ptas 56.7237 buying, and Ptas 59.3350 sell- ing, per US$1. As a result, the peseta appreciated in terms of the U.S. dollar. February 28. Decree No. 677 extended to the auto- motive components industry the benefits available to SPAIN "preferential interest" industries, including tariff reduc- tions, tax remissions, and privileged access to official credit. March 8. It was announced that public sector bodies had been authorized to borrow abroad up to about Ptas 1 billion. March 11. Restrictions on imports of specified goods of Japanese origin were relaxed. March 18. The list of capital goods which could be imported at a concessional import duty rate of 5 per cent was amended with 41 additions, 11 extensions, and 4 deletions. The additions and extensions were generally valid for two years. The list was further modi- fied on several occasions in 1974. April 11. Decree No. 984 increased the across- the-board import duty reduction of Decree No. 75 from 5 per cent to 10 per cent and extended its validity to July 10. The exceptions were retained. May 30. Spain signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. June 17. The import of goods under 18 tariff head- ings (mainly rubber adhesives, certain intermediate silk products, certain jute products, bismuth, uranium, and domestic refrigerators) was liberalized by their transfer from the global quota list to the free import list. August 1. Bank of Spain Circular No. 3 of July 12 came into effect. It amended the regulations regarding accounts in convertible foreign currencies. Authorized banks could without prior approval by the Bank of Spain open accounts for sight and term deposits or deposits on prior notice, denominated in convertible currencies quoted on the Spanish foreign exchange market, on behalf of nonresidents, foreign companies (excluding their Spanish affiliates), and other autho- rized institutions. Holders of such accounts could oper- ate them freely. Without prior authorization by the Bank of Spain, the total amount of convertible currency deposits that banks could receive on such accounts was limited to twice the sum of paid-up capital and reserves; deposits at terms exceeding three years and deposits obtained from other Spanish banks were excluded from this ceiling. Authorized banks could freely use the for- eign exchange for deposits abroad, for loans to nonresi- dents, for deposits in Spain, or to finance the import and export operations for foreign currency loan re- quirements of resident customers. However, the amount in foreign currency loans that a Spanish bank could grant to nonresidents was limited to 5 per cent of its total deposits or to 20 per cent of the borrower's capital. Also, a bank's sight liabilities could be used only for sight lending, no more than 25 per cent of deposits at less than 12 months could be used for loans at over one year, and only 33 per cent of liabilities at one to three years could be lent at over three years. Foreign banks operating in Spain were exempt from these restrictions. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN August 5. Decree No. 2177 extended the validity of the 10 per cent reduction in import duties until Octo- ber 10. August 12. A resolution of the Directorate-General of External Transactions of July 16 was published which introduced regulations for the granting of credit to foreign buyers of Spanish goods. (Earlier in the year, various arrangements relating to export credit, export subsidies, and export insurance had been revised by Decree-Laws Nos. 1837, 1838, and 1839.) October 10. The across-the-board tariff cut of 10 per cent expired. October 31. Decrees Nos. 3021 and 3022 consoli- dated the legislation and regulations relating to foreign direct investment in Spain. The degree of liberalization of inward direct investment remained essentially un- changed. A formula was provided by which the permit- ted foreign content of investments by Spanish companies with foreign participation (inversion de cas- cade^ could be determined. , October 31. Decree No. 3022 permitted the transfer abroad of capital gains realized on the sale of real estate investments which had been financed with pesetas from A or B Accounts; previously, such capital gains had to be credited to External Accounts in Internal Pesetas. Where the acquisition of the real estate had been made by means of a foreign monetary contribution, the fu ll market price was transferable, provided this price was not the result of speculative activity. Rentals could be transferred provided the purchase price had been paid in full and the owner had no outstanding tax liabilities applicable to the property concerned. October 31. Decree No. 3023 provided that prior au- thorization was no longer required for foreign majority investments in specified sectors of the economy. Within 30 days after registration of the investment, it could be deemed approved if no notification to the contrary had been received from the authorities. The decree limited this privilege to investments in firms whose sole pur- pose is the manufacture in Spain of capital goods listed in the Appendix List of the Customs Code. November 4. The import of goods under 55 tariff headings, which (by Resolutions of October 31, 1972 and June 5, 1973) had temporarily been classified as free imports, was deliberalized; these goods reverted to global quota status. Among the items affected were certain cosmetic products, certain plastic products, silk and silk remnants, carpets, coated textiles, ties, gloves, certain ceramic products, certain jewelry, lead, hand tools, domestic sewing machines, certain electronic products and accessories, arms and ammunition. November 12. Goods under 2 tariff headings were transferred from the import free list to the global quota list. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, and Equatorial Guinea. With effect from January 1, 1975, most settlements with Cuba were placed on a convertible currency basis. 3 With effect from January 31, 1975, several changes were made in the rules governing these accounts. First, the class of assets in which balances held by foreign companies (excluding their establishments in Spain) and nonresident physical per- sons (whether of Spanish or foreign nationality) could be invested was extended to include private and government fixed-interest securities. As previously, earnings on eligible assets were freely transferable. Second, the principal invested in these assets (including any capital gains) was made trans- ferable, provided the investment had been maintained in the same securities, without interruption, for at least three con- secutive years; otherwise, the sales proceeds must be credited to an External Account in Internal Pesetas. Third, the use of Internal Pesetas for the purchase of rural properties for per- sonal use was limited to nonresident physical persons of Spanish nationality (Resolution No. 2134 of January 23, 1975 of the Directorate-General of External Transactions). 4 The import free list does not apply to the payments agree- ment countries (except Egypt) or to Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, People's Republic of China, North Korea, Laos, Mongolia, Nepal, North Viet-Nam, San Marino, Tibet, and U.S.S.R. 5 There are separate global quotas for imports of the same commodities from EEC countries. 6 With effect from January 31, 1975, uniform treatment was accorded to all balances on External Accounts in Inter- nal Pesetas. 7 The foreign content of investment by Spanish companies w i th foreign participation (inversion de cascaded is determined in the following manner: (1) if foreign participation exceeds 50 per cent, the investment is considered 100 per cent foreign; (2) if foreign participation is over 25 per cent but equal to or less than 50 per cent, the investment is considered foreign to the extent of such participation; nevertheless, if foreign inves- tors enjoy a position of dominance, the investment is consid- ered 100 per cent foreign; and (3) if foreign participation is 25 per cent or less or if there is Spanish Government partici- pation, the investment is considered as domestic. 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.149297 gram of f ine gold per Sri Lanka Rupee. However, the Sri Lanka rupee is pegged to sterling at the rate of SL Rs 15.60 = £ stg. 1 and the exchange ra te system for the t ime being is based on th is o f f ic ial ra te for s te r l ing. Ano ther e f fec t ive ra te of SL Rs 25.74 = £ stg. 1 arises f rom transac t ions in Foreign Exchange En t i t le- ment Certificates (henceforth called certificates), which exporters of non t rad i t ional exports (i.e., exports other than black tea, rubber, and major coconut products but inc lud ing green tea and in s tant tea) and most other earners or recipients of fore ign exchange are en t i t led to receive upon surrender of fo re ign exchange earned; on December 31, 1974 the corresponding exchange rate for the U.S. dollar was SL Rs 11.0354 = US$1. Non- resident travelers, when conve r t ing foreign exchange in to Sri Lanka rupees at the o f f ic ial rate, may also receive either corresponding certificates or the ir cash value in rupees. The certificates are denominated in Sri Lanka rupees and are issued w i th a face value equiva- lent at the official rate to the foreign exchange surren- dered; they are not transferab le and must be surrendered to authorized dealers w i th in 30 days of the date of issue for encashment at a price of SL Rs 65 per SL Rs 100 in certificates. Additional certificates are sold by commercial banks on behalf of the Central Bank of Ceylon upon demand and at the same price; such certificates also are not transferable. Certificates w i th a face value corresponding at the o f f ic ial ra te to the amount of fore ign exchange required must be sur- rendered when purchasing foreign exchange for pay- ments in respect of most imports and most invisibles. The commercial banks deal in certificates for up to four mon ths fo rwa rd, at SL Rs 66 selling, and SL Rs 64 buy ing, per SL Rs 100 certificate; transactions are per- mitted only when relating to anticipated genuine pay- men ts and receipts in foreign exchange to which the certificate requirements or privileges are applicable. The official exchange rate is applicable to receipts f rom major exports and to paymen ts for "A category" impor ts (rice, wheat f lou r, fertilizers, western pharma- ceuticals, and certain other imports classified as essen- tials), as well as some invisibles. The Central Bank deals in U.S. dollars, sterling, and Indian rupees on ly. While its rates for s ter l ing and the Indian rupee are fixed, the Central Bank determines exchange parities for some 20 other foreign currencies, inc lud ing the U.S. dollar, from time to time on the basis of London market rates for those currencies. Rates for other foreign currencies are determined by commercial banks, also on the basis of London ma rket rates. On December 31, 1974 the Central Bank's buy ing and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar were SL Rs 6.6870 and SL Rs 6.6875, respectively, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon as agent of the Government. A foreign exchange budget, inc lud ing an import program, is d rawn up annua l ly by the M in is t ry of P lann ing and Economic A f fa i rs. All remittances of foreign exchange in Sri Lanka must be made th rough commercial banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign currencies in accordance w i th the exchange control procedures prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made th rough post offices, under permits issued by the Con- tro l ler of Exchange. Licenses for some impor ts of the indus tr ial sector are issued by the Actual Users Divi- sion of the Ministry of Industries and Scientific Affa irs. Otherwise, import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Impo r ts and Exports. Prescription of Currency Sri Lanka has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under cu r rent U .K. exchange con trol regulations con- t inues to be regarded as a coun t ry of the Overseas Sterling Area. Payments to countries that prior to June 23, 1972 were Scheduled Territories may continue to be made in the currencies of such countries, and receipts f rom such countries con t inue to be acceptable in the currencies of such countries. Settlements with ten countries with which Sri Lanka has bilateral paymen ts agreements1 and w i th Egypt must be made th rough the relevant special accounts. Payments in respect of trade with Pakistan also are effected through special accounts. Payments to all other countries except Rhodesia may be made by cred- i t ing sterling or Sri Lanka rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the cur- rency of the creditor coun t ry. Furthermore, paymen ts for impor ts not or ig ina t ing in countries w i th which bilateral paymen ts agreements are in force (nor in Rho- desia) may be made in any foreign currency, i.e., any currency other than the Sri Lanka rupee. Receipts f rom all other countries except Rhodesia may be accepted in sterling or Sri Lanka rupees f rom a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any pre- scribed currency ,2 or in any other External Account Area currency marketable in the United Kingdom, i.e., freely exchangeable for sterling. Transactions involving deviations f rom the general procedures require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special procedures app ly to settlements w i th Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts may be held in Sri Lanka by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA Transfers of balances in these accounts to sterling Ex- ternal Accounts or External Rupee Accounts require approval by the Controller of Exchange. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such funds, unless they originate from payments for imports, may be used in Sri Lanka for certain investments, subject to the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Pro- ceeds from the liquidation of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Also retained in Blocked Accounts is a proportion of local currency earnings, derived from the exhibition of foreign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for certain specified purposes, including the making of films in Sri Lanka. Special Accounts may be maintained in Sri Lanka by nationals of Sri Lanka working abroad. Credits to the accounts are limited to the proceeds of remittances from abroad (inclusive of the value of the certificates to which the remittances entitle the holder) but the ac- counts may be freely debited for payments within Sri Lanka. Balances in such accounts are exempt from wealth tax, and income arising from investments made out of such balances with the approval of the Controller of Exchange is exempt from income tax; the value of such investments is also exempt from wealth tax. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts of up to SL Rs 250, and books up to certain specified amounts for each consignment), all imports require individual licenses. All trade imports are subject to quota restrictions. They are divided into two groups —the A category and the B category. Imports in the A category broadly comprise basic necessities, Western Pharmaceuticals, fertilizers, books and periodicals, and two-wheeled tractors. The B category includes all remaining im- ports. The value and composition of imports are estab- lished by an annual import program. Imports of many nonessential items or goods similar to locally produced items are either not permitted or considerably re- stricted. The right to import is restricted to government de- partments, government-sponsored corporations, and registered importers, although private individuals are allowed to import certain commodities for their own use, subject to special authorization. Imports of speci- fied commodities3 are restricted to government or state corporations, the Cooperative Wholesale Establish- ment, or the Lanka Salu Sala Ltd.; these commodities are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate foreign exchange, applicants for import licenses are di- 432 vided into three groups: (1) actual users of industrial raw materials, machinery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and (3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes. Public sector imports shipped or trans- shipped from places served by vessels of the Ceylon Shipping Corporation must be carried in vessels owned or chartered by the Corporation, whenever such ship- ping space is available. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts may use these for certain imports, including items oth- erwise not permitted, subject to approval by the Con- troller of Imports and Exports and, in some cases, the Controller of Exchange. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident ac- count when the applicant furnishes or undertakes to furnish evidence of importation and the cost of the goods together with a valid importer's copy and an exchange control copy of the import license. Payment for imports in the B category requires, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange involved, surrender of certificates with a face value equal to the rupee payment; imports in the A category do not re- quire the surrender of certificates. Import licenses for certain imports (primarily food products, industrial raw materials, and machinery) are subject to a mini- mum deferred payment term. Letters of credit against such licenses may be opened provided that drafts are drawn payable either not earlier than 6 months after shipment or 12 mon ths or later after shipment, in ac- cordance with the terms of the import license. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control permission and, with certain exceptions, require surren- der of certificates corresponding to the full amount of the foreign payment. Exempt from surrender of certifi- cates are (1) expenditures for certain approved courses of study abroad; (2) remittances abroad by nonnation- als for family maintenance, up to certain limits; (3) provident fund contributions and life insurance premi- ums which commenced prior to the introduction on May 6, 1968 of the certificate scheme; (4) pensions and the final remittance, on retirement, of pension and provident funds, contributions to which commenced prior to May 6, 1968; (5) expenditures of foreign em- bassies, official international organizations, and foreign diplomatic personnel; and (6) other expenditures abroad specifically exempted from the certificate sur- render requirement by the Controller of Exchange. The remittance of life insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies purchased by nonnationals resid- ing temporarily in Sri Lanka is permitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for personal travel abroad is only granted for furloughs of nonnationals. Business travel ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution is generally limited to travel for the promotion of ex- ports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of £ stg. 15 a day for persons of the rank of chairman or director of a firm or corporation and of £ stg. 10 a day for other executives for a maximum period of 30 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for educational expenses is allocated only for certain courses of study that will be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Sri Lanka; allocations are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance, acting on the personal recommendation of the Minister of Education. For study in educational institutions in "Asian group" countries,4 exchange up to a maximum of SL Rs 250 a month for undergradu- ate studies or up to SL Rs 450 a month for postgradu- ate studies is allowed, as well as SL Rs 250 a year for books plus actual fees. For study in the United King- dom, foreign exchange is made available at £ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, and at £ stg. 60 a month for postgraduate studies, plus actual fees, and £ stg. 25 a year for the cost of books. Following the devaluation of the pound sterling in November 1967, students in countries whose currencies were not devalued were allowed supplementary remit- tances to enable them to receive the same amount as previously in the currency concerned. For study in such countries (other than the United States and Canada), the maximum allowable is £ stg. 53 a month for under- graduate studies and £ stg. 70 a month for postgradu- ate studies; the maximum for the United States and Canada is US$225 a month and US$240 a month for undergraduate and postgraduate studies, respectively (in addition to an annual book allowance and actual fees). For travel (and other expenses) for medical reasons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced from a medical specialist in Sri Lanka and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treat- ment cannot be obtained in Sri Lanka; the amount authorized will depend on the estimated cost, as certi- fied by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for family maintenance a maximum of SL Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit £ stg. 85 a month for a wife, £ stg. 105 for a boy in a senior school, £ stg. 100 for a girl in a senior school, £ stg. 75 for a child in a junior school, and £ stg. 25 for other children, up to a maximum of two thirds of the gross monthly income when dependents are direct ones. For other dependents, this ceiling is one third of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross mon th ly income, the excess will be treated as an antici- patory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Tempo- rary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. SRI LANKA Nationals of Sri Lanka are not granted exchange for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. No remittances for insurance on exports are permitted; these must be covered with the Insurance Corporation of Sri Lanka. Holders of funds in Convertible Rupee Accounts may use these funds for travel expenditures and other current invisibles, subject to approval by the Controller of Exchange. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Sri Lanka currency notes and coins. Resi- dents may Jake out foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of SL Rs 50 a person (SL Rs 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, provided that they have been granted exchange for travel. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Permits is- sued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports, and exports to countries with which Sri Lanka maintains bilateral payments agree- ments are subject to the approval of the Director of Commerce. Furthermore, most exports require an ex- port license issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Rubber exports to the People's Republic of China, Poland, Romania, and the U.S.S.R. are under state trading. The State Gem Corporation has the ex- clusive right to export gems and exports of private exporters are made with the permission of the Corpora- tion; it also handles exports in the names of gem miners who wish to export gems through the Corporation. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the permit for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fair value for the goods has been or will be received in Sri Lanka by approved methods of payment and, usually, within six months from the date of ship- ment. Foreigh exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered. There are special arrangements, however, for gems and nontraditional exports. Exporters may maintain accounts, designated Convertible Rupee Ac- counts, with authorized dealers in Sri Lanka. These may be credited with 20 per cent of the f.o.b. Sri Lanka rupee value (inclusive of certificates) of the net export proceeds of gems, with 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value in Sri Lanka rupees (inclusive of certificates where appli- cable) of nontraditional exports, and with 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value in Sri Lanka rupees (inclusive of certificates) of net export proceeds of original and indi- vidual works of art by individuals. Debits to the ac- counts are permitted for imports, travel abroad, other payments which are not of a capital nature, and trans- fers to other Convertible Rupee Accounts. 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA Exporters of all goods other than black tea in bulk and in packets, rubber (excluding sponge rubber), co- conut oil, copra, desiccated coconut, and fresh coco- nuts are entitled to receive certificates with a face value in Sri Lanka rupees equal to the f.o.b. value of exports, upon surrender to an authorized bank of the foreign exchange actually earned. Exporters can use these cer- tificates as supporting documents when buying foreign exchange for payment of imports, or for other pay- ments abroad, which require the surrender of certifi- cates. Certificates have to be surrendered to the monetary authorities or to an authorized bank within 30 days of issue. The holders can use them when mak- ing foreign exchange payments within seven months from the date of issue; at the end of the seven-month period, the validity of the certificate lapses. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered. Receipts under the following headings en- title the recipient to obtain certificates with a face value equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange surren- dered to an authorized bank: (1) travel receipts; (2) insurance receipts; (3) investment income; (4) private transfers and donations; (5) small savings remitted to Sri Lanka by workers abroad;5 (6) miscellaneous other inward remittances as determined, on a case-by-case basis, by the Chief Accountant of the Central Bank. Nonresident travelers are eligible to receive certificates corresponding to the amount of foreign exchange con- verted with authorized dealers; alternatively, the latter may pay the traveler, in addition to the rupee equiva- lent of the foreign exchange sold, the cash value of the certificate. Part of the Sri Lanka rupee equivalent of certain proceeds from invisibles may be credited to Convertible Rupee Accounts; this proportion is 5 per cent of gross foreign exchange earnings from tourism, 20 per cent of foreign exchange earnings by individuals from the sale of their original and individual works of art to tourists in Sri Lanka and from the publication abroad of scien- tific and literary works, 20 per cent of foreign exchange earnings from professional and consultancy services performed abroad by individuals, and 5 per cent of the proceeds from such services performed by firms, com- panies, etc. A traveler entering Sri Lanka must declare his hold- ings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Sri Lanka in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Sri Lanka, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however, Sri Lanka notes in denomi- nations of SL Rs 10 or less may be imported up to SL Rs 50, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in w i thout re- striction. 434 Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the Gov- ernment, or, where the capital is drawn from a Blocked Account in Sri Lanka, in certain investments in Sri Lanka that have been approved by the Controller of Exchange, including shares of public companies incor- porated in Sri Lanka; capital transfers for direct invest- ment in Sri Lanka are entitled to receive certificates upon conversion of the foreign exchange into rupees. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects other than investments made from Blocked Accounts may be repatriated, along with capi- tal appreciation; transfers require the surrender of cer- tificates. Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested with the approval of the Controller of Exchange; the current income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign investments in Sri Lanka that are con- sidered and approved by the Foreign Investment Advi- sory Committee of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs are also granted special facilities in respect of remittances and taxation. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in any foreign currency must be declared to the Controller of Exchange, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange. Emigrants are not permitted capital remittances ex- cept on grounds of dire hardship, nor generally, remit- tances of income (including pensions) accruing in Sri Lanka. However, certain remittances of income may be approved to persons over 55 who emigrated before June 26, 1973, and pension payments to persons pen- sioned by the Government of Sri Lanka who emigrated before 1964 have been continued without interruption. Repatriates leaving Sri Lanka for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets represent- ing their retirement funds and a reasonable amount of savings as determined by the Government from time to time. For persons who have been in business in Sri Lanka, the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are al- lowed to be transferred, subject to certain limits. The transfer of personal assets and of income thereon re- quires the surrender of certificates; exempt are (1) bal- ances on provident and pension funds held abroad and representing contributions in respect of contractual ob- ligations entered into before May 6, 1968, (2) provi- dent and pension funds held in rupees in Sri Lanka, and (3) the value of insurance policies held abroad and taken out before May 6, 1968. Special provisions, gov- erned by an agreement between Sri Lanka and India, apply to Indian families returning to India. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Ex- ports with the approval of the Central Bank. Such li- censes are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. The People's Bank is the sole importer of gold. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed craftsmen and jew- elers; the price charged at the end of 1973 was SL Rs 1,550 an ounce, i.e., the equivalent of US$231.75 an ounce (calculated at SL Rs 6.6881 per U.S. dollar). Small quantities are also sold to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted. No credits to Convertible Rupee Accounts are allowed for the gold or silver content of commercial exports of jewelry. Changes during 1974 January 17. Credits to Convertible Rupee Accounts henceforth were allowed also in respect of foreign ex- change earnings from exports of processed coconut fi- ber, coir yarn, coir twine, and coir rope (provided they were realized on or after November 14, 1973). The per- missible rate of credit was 3 per cent. January 21. The Department of Exchange Control called for comprehensive data on Special Accounts from authorized dealers. March 4. A credit arrangement was agreed between the Central Bank of Cevlon and the State Bank of Pakistan. Trade transactions with Pakistan were to be settled through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars and maintained at the two banks. March 5. Holders of balances on Convertible Rupee Accounts were permitted to use these for purchases at the Ceylon Hotel Corporation Tourist Shops, provided that applications were approved by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Approvals would be limited to such goods as were ordinarily permitted to be imported by the account holder concerned on a direct user basis for his own use, and purchases in commercial quantities or for resale would not be permitted. March 12. The Department of Exchange Control tightened the supervision over Shipping/Airline Exter- nal Accounts. March 15. The Companies (Special Provisions) Bill was gazetted. It was enacted on June 14. The Act pro- vided that all companies owning or operating a busi- ness in Sri Lanka had to be incorporated under the Companies Ordinance by September 1 at the latest. Exempt were specified types of businesses, such as local offices of foreign airlines and trading agencies of foreign governments. March 18. All applications for permission to estab- lish letters of credit for, or to make payments for, im- ports of dates had to be referred to the Department of Exchange Control. May 21. Sterling companies were allowed to use bal- ances in their Blocked Accounts for the payment of the SRI LANKA capital levy tax, subject to prior approval by the De- partment of Exchange Control. May 24. Certain private sector imports of automo- biles and other motor vehicles were henceforth permit- ted again, either as gifts or on a "no foreign exchange involved" basis. May 29. All applications for the export by individu- als of their paintings, sculptures, and other original and individual works of art had to be referred to the Con- troller of Exchange for prior approval. July 19. Residents were allowed, subject to prior approval by the Department of Exchange Control, to pay in domestic currency for Air Ceylon tickets for private travel to and from Bangkok, subject to delivery of certificates; they were not, however, entitled to for- eign exchange facilities. July 30. The Central Bank tightened its supervision over the granting of loans and overdrafts to firms or companies (other than banks) controlled directly or indirectly by persons resident outside Sri Lanka. August 1. It was announced that with effect from November 1, shipping agents were to charge their prin- cipals a commission of not less than 2Y2 per cent of the total freight on cargo imported into Sri Lanka. August 26. The transfer of funds from one Convert- ible Rupee Account to another henceforth was permit- ted, subject to the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. August. Agreement was reached with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, and Romania on the termination in the near fu ture of the clearing ar- rangements with each. September 18. Applications for the export of rubber seed oil required the prior approval of the Department of Exchange Control. September 27. Imports of tallow, palm oil, and mill- ing copra by the Coconut Development Authority be- came exempt from the requirement of surrender of certificates. (This regulation was revoked on Janua- ry 22, 1975.) October 14. Credits to Nonresident Accounts with the proceeds of inward remittances made by the ac- count holder were exempted from prior approval by the Department of Exchange Control. October 22. Exchange facilities for travel abroad of emigrating persons and of persons proceeding abroad for longer-term employment were suspended. November 7. The rates at which credits were made to Convertible Rupee Accounts were modified as follows (previous rates are given in parentheses): For earnings from exports of gems, 20 per cent (25 per cent). For earnings from merchandise exports—except black tea in bulk; crepe, sheet, and scrap rubber; coconut oil; desiccated coconut; copra; fresh coconuts; and coconut fiber —5 per cent (3 per cent). For earnings from tour- ism, 5 per cent (3 per cent). For earnings from exports and sales to tourists, by individuals, of their original paintings, etc., 20 per cent (25 per cent). For earnings from professional and consultative services rendered by 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SRI LANKA individuals, 20 per cent (25 per cent). For earnings by individuals from publication abroad of scientific and literary works, 20 per cent (25 per cent). For earnings from professional and consultative services rendered by institutions, firms, etc., 5 per cent (2 per cent). November 25. For exports of jewelry studded with gems, credits to Convertible Rupee Accounts were per- mitted at 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the gems studded in the jewelry, plus 20 per cent of the value of the craftsmanship of the jewelry. No percentage of the value of the gold and /or silver incorporated in the jewelry would qualify for credit to Convertible Rupee Accounts when these facilities were availed of. Valua- tion had to be undertaken by the State Gem Corpora- tion before authorized dealers could grant licenses. NOTES 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Po- land, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, and U.S.S.R. W i th effect from January 1, 1975, settlements with Czechoslovakia were placed on a convertible currency basis. On January 9, 1975, an agreement with Romania was signed providing for termination of the clearing arrangement and for settlements in convertible currencies. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escu- dos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 These include mainly rice, wheat, flour (except corn flour), unrefined sugar, refined sugar, Maldive fish, dried fish, cumin seed, masoor dhal, dried chilies, coriander, pulses, yeast and baking powder, garlic, fennel seed, mathe seed, turmeric, dates, sultanas and raisins, cement, fish meal, corn, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper prod- ucts, petroleum products, and textiles and manufactures of textile materials. 4 The "Asian group" is listed as Aden, Afghanistan, the East African region, Brunei, Burma, Egypt, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Leba- non, Malaysia, Pakistan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Ara- bia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, and Turkey. 5 Since December 17, 1971 Sri Lanka nationals employed abroad and not availing themselves of the Special Accounts scheme for small savings introduced on February 6, 1971 may be required to remit to Sri Lanka a specified percentage of their annual earnings, if these exceed specified amounts. Compliance may be required for annual passport renewal. The funds remitted are entitled to certificates upon conver- sion but may not be used for imports or payments abroad. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Suda- nese Pound. The Sudanese pound is defined by law as having a gold content of 2.115368 grams of fine gold. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar is LSd 1 = US$2.87156. Fixed official rates for transac- tions in U.S. dollars are quoted by the Bank of Sudan (the central bank), whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government on Decem- ber 31, 1974 were US$2.875877 buying, and US$2.867268 selling, per LSd 1. An effective exchange rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 is applied to all exchange transactions other than the purchase of proceeds from exports of cotton and gum arabic, to which the ex- change rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87156 continues to ap- ply, as a result of the application of exchange taxes and subsidies of 5.18 piastres per U.S. dollar (i.e., 15 per cent) to the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.87. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by autho- rized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and National Economy, but all registration forms and li- censes must be validated by the exchange control au- thorities (Bank of Sudan). Import payments and other foreign payments are approved within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget that is drawn up by the Ministry of National Economy and approved by the Economic Council of the Cabinet. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries1 are normally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Suda- nese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most non- commercial invisibles except those payable to Egypt2 have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to all other countries and monetary areas (the "converti- ble area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresi- dent account or in any convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Foreign diplomats are allowed to maintain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated as nonresident ac- counts. These accounts must be credited with convert- ible currencies. Other foreign personnel working in the Sudan under certain contracts, as well as foreign na- tionals residing in the Sudan, may maintain Deposit Accounts in Sudanese pounds. Blocked Accounts are maintained by former resi- dents; earnings accruing to these accounts may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons and others are not being licensed. Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa also are prohib- ited. Permitted imports generally are licensed or ac- cepted for registration in accordance with allocations under the foreign exchange budget. Sugar and wheat are imported by a state agency only. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained from the Ministry of Finance and National Economy and validated (franked) by the Exchange Control Department of the central bank. "Nil" licenses, which also require franking, are issued for certain imports financed with foreign exchange held abroad by residents. Import insurance normally must be taken out with local companies. Most private sector imports are subject to an advance deposit of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payable before validation, and a sur- charge of 5 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports; capital goods, heavy trucks, tires and tubes, and medicines are exempt from advance deposits. Goods otherwise subject to the advance deposit re- quirement are exempt when financed with suppliers' credit of at least two years' maturity, provided that the amount of the transaction is at least LSd 500,000. If a letter of credit is opened, the authorized bank usually requires a cash margin of 10 per cent to 30 per cent. In practice, for many goods whose importation the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin de- posit must be made. A stamp duty of LSd 5 is levied on the application form for each remittance in respect of private sector imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control approval. Remittances are permitted for family mainte- nance (up to LSd 500 a person a year), educational expenses (up to LSd 1,200 a student a year for Western Europe, in addition to tuition fees; study in the United States is exempt from this ceiling), and for certain other purposes. Allowances for tourist travel to countries other than Egypt are authorized by the commercial banks up to a maximum of LSd 60 every other year for each adult traveling to Western Europe and the United 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN States, and LSd 50 every other year for travel to other areas. Allowances for nonbusiness travel to Egypt, however, are the equivalent of LSd 50 an adult, and LSd 30 a child, a year and are also authorized by the commercial banks. Exchange for travel must be pur- chased at an effective exchange rate of US$2.50 per LSd 1. Sudanese nationals resident abroad who remit for- eign exchange to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50 may at the same rate obtain for- eign exchange equivalent to 75 per cent of the amount converted in any one year and use this exchange to make personal remittances abroad. Sudanese Govern- ment officials (other than seconded staff) and students receiving educational allowances at the official rate are not entitled to avail themselves of this arrangement. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently resident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Portu- gal, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Shipping charges, in- surance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. The remit- tance of income accruing from blocked assets in the Sudan (including income from Blocked Accounts) is prohibited, except for earnings from investments in government securities made before 1970. The exporta- tion of Sudanese currency is prohibited. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually all payments for invisibles. The duty is LSd 10 on applica- tions for remittances of profits and dividends, LSd 5 on applications for other transfers and for foreign ex- change for business travel, LSd 2 on applications for foreign exchange for tourism, and from LSd 1 to LSd 0.25 on applications for remittances for other pur- poses; government remittances and those by diplomats are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With the exception of cotton and gum arable, all exports require a license. Exporters must submit an export form to an authorized bank. Authorized banks may approve these forms only if pay- ment is in the form of cash against documents or against sight letters of credit; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. All commodities are subject to minimum export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documents or sight letter of credit, pro- ceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. Some major export commodities are exported solely by public sector entities. At the end of 1974, the export of some commodities was prohibited for supply reasons, and the export of certain others was permitted 438 only when the proceeds were to be received in convert- ible currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Sudanese nationals resident abroad other than gov- ernment officials or students may remit foreign ex- change in convertible currencies to the Sudan for conversion at the rate of LSd 1 = US$2.50, and receive an incentive bonus of 60 per cent per annum which is paid on amounts so transferred to the Sudan and kept in a special account for at least six months;3 75 per cent of the remittances so received may be repatriated at the end of the six-month period but in that case the bonus is forfeited and the remittance becomes subject to the prevailing exchange tax. Receipts from abroad in re- spect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries. However, the importation of Suda- nese currency is forbidden. Capital Under the Development and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act, 1972, which superseded the Organiza- tion and Promotion of Industrial Investment Act of 1967, incoming foreign capital for industrial invest- ment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Suda- nese nationality may on departure transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigration from the Sudan, resident foreigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Sudan for numismatic purposes. Subject to certain conditions, residents may also purchase, hold, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authori- ties and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Sudan; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reim- port ed. Changes during 1974 January 21. The incentive bonus payable on domes- tic currency deposits arising from the conversion of convertible currency remittances of Sudanese nationals ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution residing abroad was raised from 30 per cent to 60 per cent per annum. January 30. Motor vehicles were exempted from the 5 per cent advance import deposit. February 4. Exports of maize, durra, edible oils, and all types of oil cakes and expellers were prohibited. February 23. Exports to Saudi Arabia required li- censes. March 10. Circular No. 265 suspended the 15 per cent exchange tax on barter transactions. On March 30 this circular was cancelled by Circular No. 268. March 11. Circular No. 266 lifted the ban on exports of groundnut oil produced in seed crushing mills in Port Sudan, and on groundnut oil cakes. March 25. Circular No. 267 exempted tires and tire tubes from the 5 per cent advance import deposit. May 2. Circular No. 271 exempted from the 5 per cent advance deposit those imports that were financed on a deferred payments basis of no less than two years, provided they were valued at LSd 500,000 or over. June 25. Circular No. 274 lifted the export ban on (1) sesame seed oil and sesame seed expellers; (2) ground- nut oil and groundnut expellers; and (3) cottonseed expellers already stored at Port Sudan. June 30. The bilateral payments agreement w i th Hungary expired. July 1. A development tax of 2 per cent ad valorem was introduced on most imports, exports, and locally manufac tured products. October 28. Announcement No. 1465 allowed private traders to export karkadeh. October 28. Announcement No. 1466 provided that all requests for barter exports of durra in exchange for commodities from neighboring countries should be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and National Economy for approval. SUDAN October 30. Announcement No. 1467 lifted the ban on exports of oil cake. October 31. Circular No. 282 lifted the ban on ex- ports of cottonseed expellers, durra, and karkadeh, provided they were sold for convertible currencies. November 5. Circular No. 284 banned exports of livestock and meat, except for quantities already in Port Sudan. November 12. Circular No. 286 reduced the general cash margin requirement for import letters of credit from 60 per cent to 30 per cent. The margin applicable to "necessary" commodities remained at 10 per cent. November 12. The advance import deposit require- ment was reduced from 5 per cent to 2 per cent. November 18. Circular No. 287 lifted the ban on exports of livestock and meat, provided they were sold for convertible currencies. December 2. Circular No. 289 cancelled Circulars Nos. 284 and 287. December 15. Exports of meat and livestock were banned for one year. Export contracts already con- cluded were not affected. December 21. The export tax on meat and meat prod- ucts was raised from 5 per cent to 20 per cent ad valorem. December 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia expired. NOTES 1 Sudan has bilateral payments agreements with Egypt, German Democratic Republic, India, and Poland. 2 Payments to Egypt for gasoline and Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible currencies. All other payments are settled through the bilateral account. 3 This bonus is payable only once, irrespective of the length of time by which the deposit period might exceed six months. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.457587 gram of fine gold per Surinam Guilder. Surinam has established a central rate of Sur. f. 1.78876 = US$1, and avails itself of wider margins. The fixed official rates for the U.S. dol- lar are Sur. f. 1.77 buying, and Sur. f. 1.80 selling, per US$1. There are also fixed official buying and selling rates of Sur. f. 1.75 and Sur. f. 1.80 for U.S. bank- notes. The rates for other foreign currencies, including the Netherlands guilder1 are set daily by the Central Bank of Surinam on the basis of the market quotations for the U.S. dollar and those currencies in Amsterdam and the fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in Surinam, net of any commissions. There is no ex- change market in Surinam. Administration of Control In principle, all foreign exchange dealings are subject to license, as are dealings between residents and nonres- idents in domestic currency and other domestic assets. The authority to grant exchange licenses is vested in the Foreign Exchange Board, which has delegated much of this authority and issues licenses mainly for capital transactions and certain invisibles. The Board has au- thorized the Director of Economic Affairs (or, on his behalf, the Head of the Import, Export, and Foreign Exchange Division of the Ministry of Economic Af- fairs) to issue import and export licenses, and has em- powered the Central Bank of Surinam to provide foreign exchange for import payments (subject to pre- sentation of an import license); the latter authority is exercised through the commercial banks, which have all been appointed as authorized banks by the Foreign Exchange Board. The authorized banks are empowered to provide foreign exchange for specified current pay- ments without requiring an exchange license. They may also accept free of license those inward transfers of foreign exchange that do not result from borrowing abroad; the taking up of foreign loans is subject to Foreign Exchange Board approval. Except in the cir- cumstances specified above, the authorized banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange without requir- ing the submission of an exchange license by the remit- ter. Prescription of Currency Settlements in Surinam guilders between Surinam and foreign countries other than the Netherlands Antilles are not permitted; they must, in general, be made in convertible currencies2 although payments to and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Netherlands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. 440 Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents, whether banks or nonbanks, may freely open accounts in U.S. dollars with domestic banks; no overdrafts are permitted. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guil- ders with domestic banks; certain debits and credits are covered by a general license, while all others are subject to a specific license. These accounts must not be over- drawn, and debits for certain specified purposes must not exceed a total of Sur. f. 3,000 a month. Authorized banks have also been granted a general license permit- ting them to open nonresident accounts in Surinam guilders in the name of nonresident banks; these ac- counts also must not be overdrawn. Nonresident guil- der or foreign currency accounts may not be credited with Surinam banknotes mailed from abroad or with the foreign currency equivalent. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports.3 Some items, such as specified explosives and narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy or health. Im- ports of a few other commodities are prohibited from non-EEC sources for protective reasons and subject to quota when originating in EEC countries; they include coffee (roasted and unroasted), sugar, powdered milk, butter (in packs of 500 grams or less), most worked and unworked wood, and certain metal furniture. The im- port of prohibited goods may be allowed when there is a need for them, provided that they cannot be obtained in Surinam. Another group of commodities are subject to quota, irrespective of origin; these include matches, prefabricated wooden houses, certain women's wear, certain footwear, and certain wooden or cane furniture. Special conditions are attached to the import of copra, rice, butter (in packs of over 500 grams), wheat flour (in packs of over 1,000 grams), veneer, and furniture that is on neither the prohibited nor the restricted list; the import of these commodities also is restricted for protective reasons but the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative decision rather than to quota. A gov- ernment agency, the Surinam Central Import Service, acts as the sole importer of certain staple foodstuffs. All other imports are licensed freely from any source. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. Most licenses have a validity of six months, within which period the goods must be landed and paid for. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual li- censes. The commercial banks and the General Post Office have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month on account of certain ser- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution vices (bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, and so forth); up to Sur. f. 150 an item a month for advertising expenses and payments for books; up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinam resi- dents; and up to Sur. f. 200-300 a month for the sup- port of each member of the remitter's own family in the Netherlands Antilles or the Netherlands, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 600-900 a month for a family unit (fam- ily remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon appli- cation). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 750-2,500 a person for each trip (50 per cent of these amounts for children under 14), depending on the destination;4 the authorized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being permitted until three days before departure. Travelers may take out Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. The ex- port by resident travelers of foreign banknotes (includ- ing Netherlands currency) is limited to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may freely purchase and take out foreign currency up to the equiv- alent of Sur. f. 250. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any foreign banknotes they brought in, provided that amounts in excess of Sur. f. 5,000 were declared upon entry. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application sup- ported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require export licenses, which for most com- modities are issued freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the foreign currency proceeds to an authorized bank within six months of shipment. Export licenses for cattle and pigs, fresh beef and pork, and planting materials are granted only after favorable advice of the Director of Agriculture, Animal Hus- bandry, and Fisheries. The export of baboon wood is restricted and that of rice is subject to special regula- tions. Certain exporting companies have received spe- cial permission from the Foreign Exchange Board to maintain current accounts in foreign currency with their parent companies abroad and to use these for specified payments and receipts (including export pro- ceeds). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in foreign currency without limit, and up to SURINAM Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equivalent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A decision of September 21, 1960 of the Foreign Exchange Board provides for the transfer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liqui- dation of fully or partly foreign-owned companies or other forms of enterprise. The decision covers invest- ments made by nonresidents with foreign capital after July 31, 1953. It also provides for the annual transfer of profits and for the transfer at any time of the foreign exchange (including loans) imported by the nonresi- dent entrepreneur for the company's use. Profits must be transferred within a period of three years; otherwise, they are considered to have become part of the firm's working capital or to have been lent to the firm, and may only be transferred in annual quotas of 20 per cent. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 pro- vides for additional incentives to private investment in Surinam. The Foreign Exchange Board grants licenses on ap- plication for transfers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, further annual transfers are per- mitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The Board allows emigrants (heads of family) to transfer in foreign exchange the equivalent of Sur. f. 5,000 in a lump sum, and subsequently Sur. f. 5,000 a year. The head of a repatriating family is permitted to transfer the equivalent of Sur. f. 10,000 plus 10 per cent of his total taxable earnings in Surinam accrued during his period of residence; if his Surinam assets exceed the sum thus calculated, the excess may be transferred at a rate of Sur. f. 10,000 a year, or at a higher rate when this is necessary to ensure that the entire balance is released within ten years. Subject to certain requirements, residents may pur- chase or sell in specified countries5 Surinam corporate shares that have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Board. Transfers for investment in Netherlands or other foreign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is con- sidered that Surinam interests will benefit. All borrow- ing from nonresidents by nonbank residents requires prior approval by the Foreign Exchange Board. The foreign transactions of authorized banks are restricted, in principle, to those undertaken for the account of their customers, and banks are required, in principle, to surrender to the Central Bank any excess of foreign currency purchased over foreign currency sold, but the Central Bank permits them to place part of their liquid funds abroad and they have received a general license to place abroad at short term U.S. dollars correspond- ing to balances in nonresident U.S. dollar accounts. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Gold Producers of gold may sell only to authorized gold buyers. Locally produced gold must be surrendered to the Foreign Exchange Board by sale to the Central Bank at Sur. f. 2,110 a kilogram fine for bars of at least 10 kilograms or at Sur. f. 1.80 a gram for unworked gold with an average smelting loss of 6 per cent and an average gold content of 940/iooo-6 Authorized gold buy- ers are permitted, however, to sell nuggets at freely agreed prices to the public for industrial and artistic purposes; dealings between residents in gold bars and other forms of unworked gold, with the exception of nuggets, are prohibited. As local production does not meet demand for industrial purposes, the Central Bank imports some gold, which it sells to authorized gold buyers. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Suri- nam for numismatic and investment purposes; autho- rized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and authorized industrial and dental users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than nuggets, jewelry, or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange licenses7 issued by the Foreign Exchange Board; such licenses are not nor- mally granted except for imports and exports of coins by authorized banks, and for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Residents arriving from abroad, however, may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration, and provided that they surrender it to the Central Bank within 20 days. Nonresident travelers also may freely bring in gold, subject to declaration; they may re-export the declared amount freely. Imports of gold coins are duty free and those of unworked gold are subject to a duty of Sur. f. 0.0375 a gram, irrespective of origin. The general tariff for gold ornaments is 60 per cent ad valorem, but those of EEC origin are subject to duty at 50 per cent ad valorem. Imports of all forms of gold are subject to a statistical fee of 1.5 per cent and a licensing fee of 0.5 per cent. Changes during 1974 April 18. Authorized banks receiving Surinam bank- notes from their correspondents abroad could no longer credit these to nonresident guilder accounts or convert them into foreign currency. The amount in domestic banknotes that could be brought in or taken out by travelers remained unchanged at Sur. f. 100 a person. June 15. The Barbados dollar was added to the list of convertible currencies in which international trans- actions must normally be settled. August 15. The basic exchange allowance for travel by foreign members of consular staffs was limited to Sur. f. 750-2,500 a person a trip, depending on desti- nation. November 8. The Fund was informed that Surinam subscribed to the Voluntary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Pay- ments Purposes. NOTES 1 All currencies other than the Surinam guilder are consid- ered foreign currencies. 2 Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Barbados dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dol- lars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwe- gian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. 3 However, two specified mining companies do not need licenses for their own import requirements. Similar exemp- tions may be granted to foreign companies for their industrial activities in Surinam, provided that they pay for their imports from their own foreign exchange holdings. 4 Sur. f. 1,500 for the Caribbean area and Central and South America except Guyana, French Guyana, and Venezu- ela; Sur. f. 750 for Guyana and French Guyana; Sur. f. 2,500 for the United States, Canada, and Venezuela; and Sur. f. 2,000 for the rest of the world. 5 Belgium, Canada, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, United Kingdom, and United States. 6 These amounts are to be adjusted in accordance with the revision of the official U.S. dollar price per troy ounce. By the end of 1974 this had not yet been done. 7 Import and export licenses are not required since com- modities are defined so as to exclude gold. 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange and Trade System Swaziland's currency is the Lilangeni, which is at par with the South African Rand. No par value has been established for the lilangeni.1 The par value of the rand is 1.04550 grams of fine gold per rand. However, the South African Reserve Bank has adopted an exchange rate policy of independent managed floating, and on December 31, 1974 it quoted a middle exchange rate for the U.S. dollar of US$1.4500 per R 1. Exchange rates are based on the South African Reserve Bank's rates for the U.S. dollar against the rand and the Lon- don market rates for the currencies concerned against the U.S. dollar. Swaziland has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Swaziland also forms part of the Rand Monetary Area, which is a single exchange control ter- ritory comprising Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa, and Swaziland. For purposes of exchange control over transactions in securities or gold, residents of a member country of the latter area are not regarded as residents of another member country. The Ministry of Finance controls all external currency transactions. No restrictions are applied to payments within the Rand Monetary Area, and in principle these are uncon- trolled. In relation to countries outside the Rand Mon- etary Area, Swaziland applies exchange controls that are generally similar to those of South Africa, although Swaziland's treatment of certain capital transfers to other countries of the Sterling Area may be more lib- eral. Payments to nonresidents for current transac- tions, while subject to control, are not restricted, but applications for outward transfers of capital are consid- ered on their merits. The rulings on applications for inward and outward capital transfers may depend on whether the applicant is a temporarily resident foreign national, a nonresident, or a resident. Authority to ap- prove some types of current payments is delegated to commercial banks up to established limits; this is true, for example, of the basic exchange allowance for tourist travel (the equivalent of R 2,000 in a calendar year for an adult and R 800 for a child) and a smaller annual allocation for travel to neighboring countries. There are no bilateral payments arrangements. Swaziland is a member of a customs union with Bo- tswana, Lesotho, and South Africa, and there are no import restrictions on goods originating in any country of the customs union. Imports from South Africa do not require licenses and include an unknown quan t i ty of goods originating outside the customs union. Insofar as Swaziland imports goods direct from countries out- side the customs un ion, such imports are usually li- censed in con fo rm i ty with South Africa's import regulations. Import licenses are valid for all countries and entitle the holder to buy the foreign exchange re- quired to make the import paymen t. Certain exports are subject to licensing, mainly for revenue and similar reasons, but most exports are in the f i rst instance shipped free of license to or through South Africa. Changes during 1974 June 24. South Africa discontinued the existing prac- tice of maintaining a fixed rate of exchange between the rand and the U.S. dollar for lengthy periods and, in- stead, adopted an exchange rate policy of independent managed floating. A new middle rate was set for the U.S. dollar at R 1 - US$1.50 (formerly R 1 = US$1.49). The middle rate was changed in 1974 on a number of occasions. September 6. It was announced that w i th in two years Botswana would establish a central bank and issue its own currency, which would replace the rand as legal tender. Botswana w i thdrew from the negotiations with South Africa, Lesotho, and Swaziland on a formaliza- tion and revision of the Rand Monetary Area arrange- ments. Past arrangements would continue, however, un t il the central bank started in operations. September 6. Swaziland issued its own currency, the lilangeni, which was at par with the rand. Henceforth, both the lilangeni and the rand were legal tender. December 5. Agreement was reached in negotiations between Lesotho, Swaziland, and South Africa, con- cerning a formalization of, and certain changes in, the existing Rand Monetary Area arrangements. The re- sulting Monetary Agreement came into force on the same date. NOTE 1 On February 5, 1975, Swaziland communicated to the Fund a central rate of one lilangeni per South African rand and stated that it availed itself of wider margins. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish Krona. A central rate of SKr 4.56 = US$1 has been established, and Sweden avails itself of wider margins. Margins of 2Y4 per cent are maintained for spot rates in the official exchange market between the Swedish krona andjthe Belgian franc.* the; Danish krone, the deutsche mark, the Luxembourg franc, the Nether- lands ^guilder, and the Norwegian krone. No an- nounced margins are maintained for other currencies. On December 31, 1974 the buying and selling rates of the authorized banks for the U.S. dollar were SKr 4.07 and SKr 4.09, respectively, per US$1. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any for- eign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be- low). They may sell to foreign banks and other nonresi- dents foreign currencies spot against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Ac- count. The acquisition by foreign banks or banking firms of kronor on Regular Accounts is subject to limi- tation. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions covering current payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services; (2) 24 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter services; and (3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may conclude for- ward transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with other authorized banks, or under certain condi- tions, with foreign banks. Such transactions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with residents. Forward market rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden formally accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.1 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange con- trol regulations. All current payments are exempt from exchange con- trol, provided that they are made through the interme- 444 diary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are is- sued by the Board of Trade, except those for foodstuffs, which are issued by the National Agricultural Market- ing Board, and those for gold and gold alloys, which are issued by the Riksbank. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor through any Regular Account (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Swe- den: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Ac- counts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domi- ciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts may be held by residents of all countries. These accounts may be credited with trans- fers from other Regular Accounts, with authorized payments to foreign countries by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The crediting of Regular Accounts with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies or with transfers from other Regu- lar Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances. Regular Accounts do not normally bear in- terest. Restricted Accounts are held mainly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresi- dents after emigrating from that country. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Sweden, proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden owned by the account holders, and funds trans- ferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his family; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts2 are held in foreign cur- rencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Balances on such accounts may be used for making authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers from abroad of foreign currencies, or transfers from Regular Accounts or from other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for trans- fers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other foreign currency or Swedish kroner. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Swe- den may be maintained by banks and centers of agri- cultural credit associations. These accounts may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an ac- count holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for withdrawals in kroner in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments All imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped from Rhodesia. With the main exception of a few agricultural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than (1) Japan and (2) Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Ro- mania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Most imports from countries in the second group are also liberalized. Some imports from Japan require licenses; these are in principle issued freely, except for a few specified commodities. Imports from certain countries of specified textiles and clothing are subject to specific licensing arrangements. Technically, the exceptions to the liberalization regime are governed by "negative" lists. Imports not covered by the liberalization meas- ures require individual licenses, some of which are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrange- ments. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the formality of presenting an import license. If the condi- tions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an ex- change control permit is required. Importers are per- mitted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed what is regarded as customary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations define and list those categories of payments abroad which are consid- ered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current SWEDEN payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 100 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks; however, if they constitute partial payments of a capital nature, the approval of the Riksbank is required. Life insurance premiums in excess of SKr 1,000 a person a calendar year require the approval of the Riksbank; such ap- proval is normally given freely in respect of both exist- ing and new insurance policies. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agencies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export freely Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the country. No traveler may, however, without spe- cific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except ships, scrap metals, and arms are exempt from license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above); however, all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish autho- rized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kroner. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treat- ment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and unlim- ited amounts of other means of payment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents re- quires individual authorization, which normally is granted only if the investment is considered to promote exports or otherwise to be favorable from a balance of payments point of view. Authorization may be condi- tional on foreign financing with an average maturity of at least five years. Financing abroad is, however, as a rule not required for investments in sales companies and other companies which give rise to exports from Sweden, investments involving relatively small amounts, or investments in countries that are the main 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN recipients of Swedish development assistance. Resi- dents may, on application, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 50,000 for each family, subject to certain limitations regarding the cost of a lot and the time allowed for building on it; amounts up to SKr 75,000 may be approved where a recreational need is clearly established. A Swedish resident when emigrating is, subject to verification by the Riksbank, permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000; after one calendar year (beyond the year of emigration), he will normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets. When Swedish resi- dents emigrate to engage abroad in activities of limited duration, applications for transfers in excess of the ini- tial SKr 100,000 are considered in a restrictive manner. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Authorized banks may freely approve payments abroad in respect of various categories of remittances, including those in respect of gifts and support payments, up to SKr 2,000 for each transfer. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of life, pension, and annuity contracts; contractual amortization of their invest- ments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and gifts and inheritances. Residents may accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad only upon approval from the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit from nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits. Borrowing abroad to finance economic activity in Sweden for periods of at least five years normally is permitted. The Riksbank also permits ex- porters to cover their normal suppliers' credits through foreign borrowing. Suppliers' credit granted by Swed- ish shipyards may be refinanced abroad even if it serves to finance sales of ships to Swedish shipowners. Swed- ish importers can be also granted permission to take up credit abroad to finance contemplated imports. Bor- rowing by way of suppliers' credit is not controlled, and other borrowing to finance imports is approved where the borrowing itself and the repayment terms are in conformity with commercial practice in the trade con- cerned. In this context, authorized banks are upon ap- plication permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance certain specified import and export transac- tions, and to refinance such credit through a corre- sponding foreign borrowing. Permission for the financing of the export and import transactions men- tioned above requires that the credits conform to nor- mal commercial practice. Residents are not normally permitted to extend financial loans to nonresidents. Authorized banks may under certain conditions be granted permission to borrow abroad at long term for 446 purposes of on-lending to residents who have received permission to borrow abroad. Foreign-owned companies in Sweden usually are per- mitted to borrow at medium term and long term from the parent companies. Generally, the repayment of for- eign credits at any date other than that specified in the contract requires a new authorization from the Riks- bank; such authorizations are granted restrictively. Per- mission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capital market and the balance of payments were considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require autho- rization, which normally is given, provided that not more than 50 per cent of each individual investment (minor investments excepted) is financed with domestic credit. The transfer of the liquidation proceeds of such investments, including appreciation, requires authori- zation, which is always given. Investment by nonresi- dents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell portfolio holdings of foreign securities to nonresidents. The pur- chase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents from nonresidents, requires authorization. As a rule, such authorization is not granted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may by virtue of a general license purchase from nonresidents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denominated in foreign currencies with the proceeds from sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securities denominated in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase does not include certificates or shares issued by investment companies or investment funds (mutual funds) and is made within six months of the corresponding sale. Residents may without authoriza- tion buy foreign securities and Swedish securities de- nominated in foreign currencies from other residents. Subject to individual license, the repurchase abroad is permitted of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kroner, provided that an affidavit can be pro- duced showing either (1) that at no time since Janua- ry 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish ex- change authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, by virtue of a general license, handle purchases by nonresidents of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (switches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned affidavit requirements are met; (3) for- eign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Ceilings are placed on the net foreign exchange hold- ings of each authorized bank and the types of assets have been listed which the banks may hold within their foreign exchange limits. The ceilings for commercial banks have been fixed so as to enable them to carry out their foreign business. Banks may grant only normal overdrafts to nonresidents. They may incur foreign ex- change liabilities, but may not maintain a net liability in any one currency. This, together with the permission to pay interest on foreign exchange deposits held by nonresidents, enables the banks to borrow foreign cur- rency from nonresidents for on-lending (but not in the form of kroner) to foreign banks. Swedish banks may not borrow abroad freely in order to sell the proceeds against Swedish kroner in the market, but they may under certain conditions be granted permission to bor- row abroad to relend in Sweden (see above). Nonresi- dents' holdings of kronor in Regular Accounts must not be "abnormal," and an interbank arrangement pro- vides that, with minor exceptions, they cannot earn interest. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold within Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys require licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affected are unmanufactured gold, most types of semimanufactured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on behalf of collectors or collections). Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, den- tal laboratories, and users of gold for industrial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms im- porting for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles contain- ing gold, such as jewelry, may be made freely without a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of numismatic value and intended for collec- tors or collections. Changes during 1974 January 1. Most settlements with the German Dem- ocratic Republic henceforth took place in convertible currencies; from July 1, 1974, this would apply to all settlements. Exports to the German Democratic Re- public ceased to require licenses and most imports from the German Democratic Republic were liberalized. January 22. The French franc ceased to be included among the currencies in respect of which the Riksbank observed margins of 2Y4 per cent. The official buying and selling rates for the French franc were suspended. February 28. Regulations governing the refinancing abroad of export credit were relaxed. SWEDEN March 22. The restrictions on Regular Accounts held by nonresident banks and banking firms that had been imposed on March 20, 1973 and modified on June 26, 1973 were revoked. The restrictions now re- voked had limited the holdings of kronor on Regular Accounts by foreign banks and banking firms to "nor- mal" credit balances, defined as the average net credit balance on the account during January 1973. In cases of noncompliance, the Riksbank had reserved the right to prescribe that negative interest should be levied on the excess balance. May 30. Sweden signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Trans- actions. May 31. The limit on the amount which residents could on application transfer abroad for the purchase of real estate for recreational purposes was raised from SKr 40,000 to SKr 50,000. The limit of SKr 75,000 continued to apply where a recreational need was clearly established. May 31. The Riksbank extended and increased the powers given to authorized banks to approve payments abroad in respect of various types of remittances. June 18. The authorities henceforth required to an increasing extent that outward direct investment be financed with foreign credit with a minimum average maturity of five years. The requirement was not appli- cable to sales companies or other companies that give rise to exports from Sweden, minor investments, or investments in countries which are the main recipients of Swedish development assistance. June 18. The supervision of inward direct investment was tightened, except for minor investments, to ensure that not more than 50 per cent of any individual invest- ment was financed by domestic credit. June 18. Deposits made and interest accrued after June 18, 1974 on Foreign Exchange Accounts held by residents with banks in Sweden had to be credited to noninterest-bearing accounts, except where the Riks- bank permitted otherwise. July 1. Amendments to the Exchange Control Law came into force. The decree on the issuance of exchange control regulations provided for in the Law could be issued when necessary to achieve the basic goals of economic policy; previously, the purposes of exchange control were defined in terms of monetary and ex- change policy. That decree was to be invoked by the Riksbank for the furtherance of monetary and ex- change policy, taking into consideration the aims of industrial and employment policy. Membership of the Exchange Control Board was increased from 7 to 11 whenever matters affecting direct investment abroad were dealt with; of the 11 members, the King-in-Coun- cil would appoint 3, 2 of whom would serve only in matters affecting direct investment abroad. The appeal provisions also were modified. July 1. Minor amendments to the Exchange Control Decree came into force. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN July 1. The Post Office was designated as an autho- rized bank when its Banking Department became part of the new Post-och Kreditbank. August 15. Advance repayment of most types of debt to nonresidents was restricted. Bonds could not be re- paid earlier than nine months before maturity, but where there was a multicurrency option this could still be availed of. August 15. The Riksbank announced that borrowing abroad, with a maturity of normally at least five years, by nonbank residents to finance economic activity in Sweden would, with minor exceptions, be permitted without, in principle, any restrictions as to the use of the proceeds. Previously, such borrowing had been re- stricted mainly to shipyards, shipowners, and export- ers, and to loans for the financing of domestic industrial investment. December 20. The Export Credit Council was per- mitted to act as guarantor for transactions between Swedish and foreign banks in connection with export transactions. Previously, the Council could only issue guarantees in respect of any loss arising between Swed- ish banks and foreign buyers. NOTES 1 The Exchange Control Board has 7 members, except when matters affecting direct investment abroad are to be dealt with, in which case it has 11 members. Some members (and their alternates) are appointed by the Government, and all other members (and their alternates) by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges Riksbank. 2 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Ac- counts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized receipts in foreign currencies and with inter- est and debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. However, deposits made and interest accrued after June 18, 1974 must be credited to noninterest-bearing accounts. 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND l (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc as established by Decree of the Federal Council on May 9, 1971 is 47/2ie (= 0.21759) gram of fine gold. The "central rate" for the U.S. dollar fixed on December 20, 1971 was Sw F 3.84 = US$1. The gold parity of the Swiss franc has not been altered accordingly. On January 23, 1973, the Swiss National Bank suspended until further notice its intervention in the exchange market and no an- nounced margins are maintained in the market for any currency. Since then, the exchange rate of the Swiss franc has been floating. The market rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 was Sw F 2.5400 per US$1.2 Exchange is controlled in respect of transactions with four countries with which Switzerland has bilat- eral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover certain specific payments with three countries— Cuba, Egypt, and Turkey; Switzerland also controls its payments with the German Democratic Republic, in- cluding East Berlin. Official rates are applied to trans- actions covered by some of these arrangements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries), as well as certain settlements involving Egyptian pounds which represent compensation for nationalization of Swiss property in Egypt, may be made freely at free market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and the applica- tion of controlled payments, the Principality of Liech- tenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein con- cerning the union of the Principality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory. For purposes of capi- tal control, physical or juridical persons (including banks) who are domiciled in the Principality of Liech- tenstein are generally considered by Switzerland as resi- dents, except in respect of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. For purposes of the Federal Law on Banks and Savings Institutions, however, Liechtenstein is consid- ered a foreign country. Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Fed- eral Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the autho- rized banks, is entrusted with the operation of con- trolled payments. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agree- ments and/or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements with countries in this sector are made in Swiss francs; however, certain settlements with Egypt may be made in Egyptian pounds through special accounts main- tained by the Swiss Compensation Office at the Central Bank of Egypt, and certain settlements with Cuba must be made in Swiss francs to the debit or credit of a special account at the Swiss National Bank. Outside the sector of controlled payments, certain settlements with Turkey are subject to special regulations. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regulations involv- ing prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of con- trolled payments may be grouped as follows: (1) ac- counts related to Cuba, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" ac- counts, comprising those which may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzerland. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of the German Democratic Republic, which are transferable only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of Egypt, which are subject to special treatment. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With minor excep- tions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of their origin are certain agricul- tural products. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Im- ports of textiles from specified countries are subject to price surveillance or price certification. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regu- lations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled pay- ments. Payments for imports from all other countries may be made freely through the free market. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely; how- ever, payments to the German Democratic Republic (including East Berlin) are controlled.3 The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled pay- ments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds re- ceived in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital from countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Trans- fers of capital to other countries may be made freely, with the exception mainly that bank credits and other bank lending to nonresidents, when exceeding Sw F 10 million each and with a maturity of 12 months or more, require permission. This applies, inter alia, to foreign issues in Switzerland of bonds and to direct participa- tions by Swiss banks in Euro-bond issues. Further- more, all proposed first placings of medium-term negotiable paper (notes, certificates of deposit, etc.) in amounts of Sw F 3 million or more must be submitted to the National Bank for examination. In addition, issues in Switzerland of domestic bonds as well as for- eign bonds denominated in Swiss francs are subject to ceilings. All capital exports denominated in Swiss francs and licensed by the National Bank (bond issues, placings of notes, and other loans and credits, except export credit) must be converted into foreign currency at the National Bank. Issues by foreign issuers of debt instruments expressed in Swiss francs and having a maturity of less than 12 months are discouraged. The same applies to foreign bond issues denominated in Swiss francs in amounts below Sw F 10 million.4 Inward capital transfers are restricted. Some of the relevant regulations make a distinction between alien nonresidents and nonresidents of Swiss nationality, the latter usually being exempt from prohibitions or ap- proval requirements even when they have their perma- nent residence abroad. Physical or juridical persons 450 having their domicile or registered office in Liechten- stein are considered nonresidents for purposes of the acquisition of Swiss real estate. The definition of the terms "foreigner" and "foreign funds" is not the same under all types of capital control regulations. The phys- ical importation and exportation of Swiss and foreign securities are unrestricted. Borrowing from nonresidents, whether in domestic or foreign currency, by resident physical and juridical persons other than banks requires the prior approval of the National Bank, which is not normally granted; the principal exemptions from this licensing requirement are for borrowing corresponding to customary credit terms for current commercial transactions and for cred- its up to Sw F 1 million, if taken up in foreign cur- rency, used entirely abroad, and not converted into Swiss francs. Banks are subject to reserve requirements against the growth and the level of external liabilities (liabilities both in Swiss francs and in foreign currencies), but they are not required to maintain balanced foreign currency positions;5 the reserve requirements are different for, on the one hand, deposits made between July 31, 1971 and October 31, 1974, and on the other hand, deposits made after the latter date. Banks are not permitted to pay interest on Swiss franc deposits received from non- residents after October 31, 1974 or, subject to existing contractual commitments, on such funds received at any earlier date. They must charge a commission ("negative interest") of 3 per cent a calendar quarter, payable in advance, on all net increases after Oc- tober 31, 1974 in nonresident-held Swiss franc depos- its, irrespective of maturity.6 Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on be- half of persons or firms of foreign nationality who are domiciled abroad require approval by the canton where the property is situated. Such permission is also re- quired for the acquisition of real estate by foreign phys- ical persons who have been resident in Switzerland for less than five consecutive years. Gold Swiss gold coins are not legal tender. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form at home or abroad; domestic transactions are not subject to any sales or turnover tax. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by residents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in certain forms are subject to customs duty (bars and certain coins are exempt) or sales tax (bars and coins are exempt). Im- port and export licenses are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold; these are issued freely. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1974 January 1. The functions of the Swiss Compensation Office were transferred to the National Bank. January 1. Settlements with Hungary were placed on a convertible currency basis, following the expiration on December 31, 1973 of the clearing arrangements with that country. January 4. The National Bank postponed from Janu- ary 14 until February 4 the recall of minimum reserves temporarily released on December 20, 1973 (20 per cent of the reserves on the level of banks' domestic and foreign liabilities). On January 25 this recall was waived. With effect from January 31, minimum re- serves on domestic and foreign liabilities were reduced by a further 20 per cent, to 60 per cent for each. January 31. The establishment of foreign-controlled banks was made subject to a permit from the Federal Banking Commission. Any partnership in an existing bank was to be reported if total foreign ownership ex- ceeded half of the bank's capital or of the total vote. February 1. The ceiling on new issues of foreign Swiss franc bonds was reduced from Sw F 160 million a month to Sw F 240 million for February and March combined, the amount for the first quarter of 1974 being set at Sw F 360 million; the ceiling on individual issues was reduced from Sw F 80 million to Sw F 60 million. Private placements in the first quarter of 1974 of medium-term notes by nonresidents were to be re- duced by 25 per cent from one fourth of the level for all of 1974, i.e., to Sw F 650 million, and the amount of individual transactions was limited to Sw F 100 mil- lion. Overall lending by banks to nonresidents of types subject to authorization (other than export credits) was to be reduced from 1973 levels in the same manner. February 1. The regulation prescribing that banks participating in new issues of Swiss franc bonds or notes by nonresidents must place with resident custom- ers at least 65 per cent of the total amount of each issue was suspended for bond issues but not for issues of notes. February 1. The Federal Ordinances of June 26, 1972 on (1) the placement of foreign funds in Swiss securities and mortgages on Swiss real estate, and (2) the invest- ment of foreign funds in Swiss real estate were revoked. The restrictions on borrowing abroad imposed under a Federal Ordinance of July 5, 1972 remained in force, as did the prohibition on the payment of interest on for- eign funds. Previously, banks and other financial intermediaries had to abstain from investing foreign funds in Swiss securities, foreign securities denominated in Swiss francs, and mortgages on Swiss real estate, although nonresidents selling Swiss securities in Switzerland or obtaining the redemption proceeds of Swiss securities were permitted to reinvest the proceeds (whether these accrued to themselves or other nonresidents) in Swiss securities within a month of receipt, provided this off- setting took place within the "investment quota" of the SWITZERLAND bank or securities dealer's office where the proceeds were received; the National Bank could approve the acquisition of Swiss assets by a nonresident when they would serve to create or expand a business firm in Switzerland. February 1. The Federal Decree of March 21, 1973 regulating the acquisition of Swiss real estate by for- eigners (Lex Furgler) came into force; it amended and replaced the Federal Decree of June 26, 1972 on the same subject. The Federal Decree of December 21, 1973 regarding the acquisition of land in tourist centers by persons abroad also came into force. The responsi- bility for authorizing the investment of foreign funds in Swiss real estate was transferred to the cantons, subject to the right of appeal to the Federal Government by applicants. The authorization requirements were tight- ened. Henceforth, purchases of real estate by foreigners who have not been resident in Switzerland for five con- secutive years were subject to approval, and purchases were prohibited in certain areas where a large propor- tion of real property was already foreign owned. February 1. The conversion requirements were sus- pended which had stipulated that all capital exports denominated in Swiss francs and licensed by the Na- tional Bank (except export credits) must upon approval (or as soon as subscription lists were closed) be con- verted into foreign currency at Swiss banks, and that at least 10 per cent of this conversion must take place at the National Bank. March 75. It was announced that the ceiling on net domestic bond issues in the second quarter would be Sw F 1,000 million, as against Sw F 1,200 million for the first quarter of 1974. April 1. Increased benefits under the scheme of gener- alized tariff preferences for imports from developing countries came into force. April 3. The National Bank offered commercial banks one-month currency swaps at market-related ex- change rates. Previously, such swaps were made avail- able only at the end of a month or of a quarter. On May 2, the National Bank offered three-month dollar swaps. April 5. The National Bank announced it would lower the minimum reserve requirements on banks' do- mestic and foreign liabilities from 60 per cent to 45 per cent with effect from April 25. April 23. The National Bank decided to raise the permitted growth rate of domestic bank credit from 6 per cent to 7 per cent over the level of domestic credit permitted as of July 31, 1972, in the 12-month period ending July 31, 1974. May 27. A partial prohibition on capital exports was introduced. The National Bank temporarily closed the Swiss market for all issues and placings of foreign bonds and notes. Credits subject to authorization were not prohibited. Foreign loan issues of less than Sw F 10 million (which were exempt from prior autho- rization by the National Bank) were regarded as unde- sirable for the time being. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND May 29. The Federal Government and the National Bank agreed that the existing system of credit limita- tion was to be maintained for the year starting Au- gust 1, 1974. The permitted growth rate of domestic credit remained at 7 per cent of the amount of domestic credit permitted on July 31, 1972. May 30. Switzerland signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transactions. June 12. It was announced that the ceiling on net domestic bond issues in the third quarter would be Sw F 600 million. June 23. The National Bank reduced the minimum reserve requirements on the level of banks' domestic and foreign liabilities from 45 per cent to 33 per cent, with effect from June 25. July 1. The stamp duty on bills and checks and the issue tax on foreign securities and Swiss bonds (and other similar paper) were abolished. The tax on trans- actions in securities was increased from 0.3 per mill to 1 per mill for domestic securities, and from 1 per mill to 2 per mill for foreign securities. July 15. Following discussions with the commercial banks in May, the National Bank formally requested them to report at the end of each month their outstand- ing purchases and sales of foreign currencies, both in transactions against other foreign currencies and trans- actions against Swiss francs. Both spot and forward dealings were to be reported. July 26. The National Bank announced that the pro- hibition on foreign issues of bonds and notes on the domestic capital market was being revoked. Foreign borrowers would be allowed to offer Swiss franc loans for public subscription with effect from September 1, 1974, subject to a ceiling of Sw F 240 million for September-October. The National Bank re- quested that no foreign loan issues of less than Sw F 10 million (which were not normally subject to authoriza- tion) be floated during these months; if any were, they would be included under the ceiling. Private note issues denominated in Swiss francs by nonresident borrowers would be permitted with effect from August 16. The overall volume of such issues in the third quarter would, until further notice, be re- stricted to 75 per cent of the average quarterly total in 1973; any unused portion of the ceiling for the second quarter could be carried forward to the September-Oc- tober period. The ruling that only 35 per cent of private note issues could be placed abroad while the remaining 65 per cent had to be placed in Switzerland, was abolished for new issues. The regulation prohibiting Swiss banks from selling to foreign banks their share of such notes (and of foreign bond issues in which they had participated) was also abolished. The maximum amount of capital exports in the form of direct foreign credits which could be granted during the third quarter was set at 25 per cent of the total of such credits authorized in 1973; conversions, renewals, 452 foreign currency credits, and credits financing Swiss exports were exempt from the ceiling. August 20. The minimum amount of each note issued by a nonresident was increased from Sw F 20,000 to Sw F 50,000, the minimum applicable to residents. September 16. It was announced that the ceiling on net domestic bond issues in the fourth quarter would be Sw F 930 million. September 25. The Parliament approved certain con- stitutional amendments designed to increase the eco- nomic powers of the Federal Government and the National Bank. The amendments (Article 31, Sec- tion 5) would be subject to a national referendum. (The referendum was held on March 2, 1975, and the amendments were turned down.) October 1. The Federal Government decreed that domestic public bond issues of less than Sw F 5 mil- lion, which were hitherto exempt from the ceiling on net domestic bond issues, would require permission with effect from October 1. October 3. The National Bank announced that the twin objectives of its liquidity policy were (1) to keep the primary liquidities maintained with it by banks at the existing level of about Sw F 5 billion, and (2) to the extent possible, to keep the interest rate for three- month Euro-Swiss francs below that on comparable Euro-dollars. October 4. The Minister of Finance announced that early in 1976 the Federal Government would submit proposals for the introduction of a value-added tax. October 8. The National Bank reduced the minimum reserve requirements on the level of banks' domestic and foreign liabilities from 33 per cent to 20 per cent, with effect from October 25. October 15. The validity of the Federal Decree of October 8, 1971 on the Protection of the Swiss Cur- rency was extended for three years. October 16. The Federal Government terminated with effect from October 21 the prohibition on the pay- ment of interest on Swiss franc deposits received from nonresidents after July 31, 1971 and revoked the rela- tive Federal Ordinance of July 4, 1972. The approval requirement for borrowing abroad was maintained. October 17. The ceilings for November-December on foreign lending subject to authorization were an- nounced. The ceiling on loan issues was set at Sw F 200 million; the ceilings on bank credits and on note issues remained unchanged, but unutilized quotas for the third quarter could not be carried forward. November 21. With effect from November 21, a pro- hibition was imposed on the payment of interest on Swiss franc deposits received or to be received from nonresidents after October 31, 1974 (including "fiduci- ary" funds); in addition, a commission charge ("nega- tive interest") of 3 per cent a quarter was imposed on such funds. The charge would be levied on the average increase if it exceeded Sw F 100,000 during a quarter, with the balance as of October 31, 1974 being a con- stant reference level at the start of each quarter. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Furthermore, the National Bank was authorized to take measures to prevent circumvention of these regula- tions through forward foreign exchange operations. (On January 22, 1975, the National Bank raised the commission charge on new foreign Swiss franc deposits from 3 per cent a quarter to 10 per cent a quarter, with immediate effect. Also, the payment of interest was prohibited on all foreign Swiss franc deposits in excess of Sw F 50,000, irrespective of when the deposits had been made but subject to any existing contractual obli- gations, which could not be renewed. At the same time, banks were obliged to at least balance their overall foreign currency positions daily7'8 and the National Bank was empowered to block in noninterest-bearing deposits, and for an indefinite period of time, the Swiss franc counterpart of its spot purchases on the exchange market of U.S. dollars.) November 21. The National Bank restricted banks' forward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents (including transactions on a "fiduciary" basis) to the level existing on October 31, 1974; monthly reporting to the Na- tional Bank was required. (On January 9, 1975, the National Bank required banks to reduce the total amount of their contracts for forward sales of Swiss francs to nonresidents. Contracts with a maturity of ten days or less had to be cut immediately to 50 per cent of the total amount outstanding with the bank con- cerned on October 31, 1974, and contracts with longer maturities to 90 per cent of their end-October level by January 31; on January 28, the latter percentage was reduced to 70 per cent.) November 25. The National Bank exempted banks' domestic liabilities from minimum reserve require- ments, with effect from December 1. Reserves against the level of foreign liabilities and on their growth since July 31, 1971 remained at 20 per cent. (On February 7, 1975 the National Bank announced that with effect from February 28 the reserve requirements on the level and the growth of liabilities to nonresidents were being increased from 20 per cent to 50 per cent.) November 28. All capital exports denominated in Swiss francs and licensed by the National Bank again were required to be converted into foreign currency at Swiss banks upon approval (or upon closing of the subscription lists). This measure affected public bond issues and bank loans in excess of Sw F 10 million, and private placements of notes in excess of Sw F 3 million. With effect from December 19, conversion had to take place at the National Bank, at current market rates. November 29. The National Bank made any increase since October 31, 1974 in Swiss franc deposits of non- residents (above Sw F 50,000) subject to an additional reserve requirement of 24 per cent for demand deposits or 18 per cent for time deposits, thus raising the mar- ginal reserve requirements to the legal maximum limits (80 per cent and 60 per cent, respectively). The new requirements came into force on December 20. December 2. The National Bank extended the re- quirements in respect of forward foreign exchange transactions to those finance companies subject to the SWITZERLAND Swiss Banking Law. December 11. It was announced that the ceiling on net domestic bond issues in the first quarter of 1975 would be Sw F 1,100 million. The ceiling for the year 1975 was set at Sw F 4 billion. December 19. The National Bank announced that the ceiling on issues of foreign loans denominated in Swiss francs would be Sw F 230 million for January-Febru- ary 1975, compared with Sw F 200 million for Novem- ber-December 1974. The ceiling on placements of medium-term notes by foreign borrowers was set at Sw F 700 million for January-March 1975. Loans to nonresidents subject to authorization would not be per- mitted to exceed Sw F 500 million during the same period. (On January 7, 1975, the National Bank re- quested the commercial banks to refrain for the time being from applying for permission to issue Swiss franc loans on behalf of foreign public or semipublic bodies. On March 3, 1975, this request was withdrawn for issues of foreign states but not local authorities. On the same date, the ceiling on foreign loans in Swiss francs was raised to Sw F 300 million for March-April and that on note issues to about Sw F 1 billion for Janu- ary —March; private placements of notes for the conver- sion of earlier issues became exempt from the ceiling, but not from the approval requirement, and the re- quirement was revoked that of issues authorized prior to July 26, 1974 a specified proportion must be placed with residents. The ceiling on credits to nonresidents subject to authorization remained at Sw F 500 million for January-March. The mandatory conversion at the National Bank of Swiss franc credits and Swiss franc issues henceforth could be made as soon as the Bank approved the capital export.) NOTES 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Mone- tary Fund. 2 The National Bank resumed certain intervention opera- tions in the spot exchange market on January 6, 1975. 3 Payments to Cuba are controlled only insofar as they relate to the Cuban-Swiss agreement on indemnification for nationalized property. 4 For the application of some regulations, namely, those based on the Law on Banks and Savings Institutions, which does not extend to banks in Liechtenstein, Liechtenstein is considered a foreign country. 5 Banks were required to at least balance their overall for- eign currency positions daily with effect from January 22, 1975. 6 With effect from January 22, 1975, the commission charge was increased to 10 per cent a quarter and the interest ban was extended to all Swiss franc deposits of nonresidents. 7 The banks' obligation to at least balance their foreign currency positions daily was applied to their positions in each currency separately with effect from April 1, 1975. 8 With effect from April 1, 1975, commercial banks had to report to the National Bank daily all spot or forward ex- change transactions exceeding US$5 million; similar require- ments were to be imposed on nonbanks engaging in foreign exchange transactions. Second, no foreign exchange transac- tions could be undertaken each day before 9:00 a.m. (These arrangements were based on a new gentlemen's agreement between the National Bank, the Swiss commercial banks, and the foreign banks operating in Switzerland.) 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by the Syrian Arab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. In principle, there are two exchange rates, the official rate and the parallel rate, but since July 18, 1973 these have been unified. Since March 22, 1974 the exchange rates for the U.S. dollar have been LS 3.65 (buying) and LS 3.70 (selling) per US$1; exchange rates for other currencies are quoted on the basis of these rates for the U.S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in international centers. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a commission of 2/10 of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is deter- mined by the Government through the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement be- tween the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for invisibles and capital transactions by the Exchange Of- fice. Authorized commercial banks, travel agencies, ho- tels, and airline companies may deal in foreign exchange. The commercial banks may open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria, which has been authorized by the Exchange Of- fice to open letters of credit and accept bills for collec- tion without prior approval, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The current re- quirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those with which the Syrian Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements1 be obtained in the cur- rency of the country to which the goods are exported if it is an "acceptable" currency,2 or in any other con- vertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds from exports to certain neighboring countries may be obtained in banknotes issued by the country concerned; these countries are Cyprus, the Gulf states, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the Yemen Arab Republic, and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. Prescription of currency require- ments are not applied to outgoing payments. All pay- 454 ments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents3 and may be credited with the pro- ceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other countries, and for expenses in the Syr- ian Arab Republic. Nonresidents and residents who have activities abroad may also keep accounts in for- eign currencies in the Syrian Arab Republic, but only if these accounts result from an inflow of capital; trans- fers abroad from these accounts are made freely. Tem- porary nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of nonresidents temporarily resident in the Syrian Arab Republic. Permitted credits include the local cur- rency proceeds of foreign currency brought in at the parallel rate and amounts corresponding to import payments that are not transferred. Debits for local ex- penditures are completely free, and debits for expendi- tures abroad also are permitted. Imports and Import Payments Imports of commodities originating in Israel, Rhode- sia, or South Africa are prohibited. Many basic com- modities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and agricultural machinery) are imported only by state trading agencies (including the successor organizations to SIMEX, particularly the General Organization for Trade and Artisan Pro- ducts—GOTA) or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Imports of some other commod- ities are reserved for "unions of industries." Imports are divided into three main categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohib- ited List, which comprises mostly goods that are pro- duced domestically, including some textile products; (2) imports on a Suspended List, which comprises some less essential goods which are temporarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (3) all imports not included in the above two lists. Certain suspended imports may be acquired in payments agreement countries through compensa- tion transactions involving the export of Syrian indus- trial or mineral products. Virtually all imports must be made direct from the country of origin, without the intermediary of any firm conducting a business estab- lished outside the Syrian Arab Republic; the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade has the authority, how- ever, to permit certain goods to be imported from countries other than the country of origin. Certain con- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sumer goods that do not appear on a special list cannot be imported from the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, or the United States unless it is shown that the price is lower and the quality higher than that of comparable products offered by other sup- pliers. All permitted imports, except those made by state trading agencies, require individual import licenses be- fore the placing of orders. The state trading agencies may conclude import transactions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clearance. (Exempt from import license, by virtue of Order No. 338 of September 17, 1973, are certain commodities when imported by specified monopoly holders; these include coffee, tea, tobacco, sugar, salt, and rice, when imported by the TAFCO agency.) Goods included in the Suspended List may be imported only under certain conditions of domestic need, under special individual license from the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and with the prior approval of the M in is try of Industry or the Ministry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Suspended or Prohibited List) from Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arabia are exempt from license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of the Syrian Arab Republic with some of these countries. These imports include all agricultural commodities, livestock, and some industrial products. Syrian citizens, whether resident in the Syrian Arab Republic or abroad, are entitled to import specified raw materials, capital goods, consumer goods, and spare parts, provided that imports are paid for w i th their own foreign exchange held abroad; to obtain import li- censes, which cannot exceed the value of LS 100,000 (except for capital goods), the importer must provide evidence of his foreign exchange holdings abroad on December 31, 1970. Import licenses are granted freely to importers who have obtained foreign suppliers' credit of at least 365 days; settlement for goods licensed under such credit facilities may be made immediately if a documentary letter of credit is opened at the Com- mercial Bank of Syria and the importer covers the fu ll amount with his foreign exchange. Licenses to import specified consumer goods, raw materials, and semifin- ished goods, up to a value of LS 12,000 for a six-month period, are freely granted to traders and industrialists whose activity is certified by the Chamber of Com- merce or by the Chamber of Indus try. Imports by par- cel post of any goods that are neither prohibited nor suspended are permitted w i thout a license, provided that each parcel is valued at LS 250 or less. There are limited import facilities for travelers arriving from abroad. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petro- leum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the fo l low ing taxes on imports which are collected by SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent; (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the tariff rate is more than 1 per cent; (3) a defense tax of 10 per cent of the tar iff; (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the tariff; (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the tariff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most commodities can be imported only through Syrian har- bors); and (6) an ocean tax of 2/10 of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Payments for imports may be made at the parallel rate by letters of credit, time drafts, or bills for collec- tion, or by crediting a nonresident account or a tempo- rary resident account. However, importers are not granted foreign exchange if they postpone the transfer until more than a week after the due date of the bill or draf t. The importer submits to the Commercial Bank of Syria the import license and the pro forma invoice. The Commercial Bank of Syria then opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Approval by the Exchange Office is currently not required. Payments for Invisibles The insurance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All payments for invisibles, except expenditures of Syrian officials abroad, must be made at the parallel rate. Both residents and nonresidents may freely take out foreign banknotes. Residents traveling abroad may also take with them other foreign exchange purchased at the parallel rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equivalent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to Jordan, LS 250 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries (except Algeria, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, the Su- dan, and Tunisia) and to Cyprus and Turkey, LS 500 a trip; and for travel to other countries (including Alge- ria, the Libyan Arab Republic, Morocco, the Sudan, and Tunisia), the equivalent of LS 1,250 a trip. For children between the ages of two and ten, the allow- ances are 50 per cent of these amounts. For travel to payments agreement countries 50 per cent of the travel allocation must be taken up through the clearing ac- count concerned (30 per cent for travel on official busi- ness). On departure, residents of Syrian nationality must pay an exit tax of LS 11.50 a person. Fixed allocations at the parallel rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by foreign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of foreign diplomatic and international mis- sions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresi- dents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out LS 100 in 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Syrian currency, and residents LS 25. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is re- quired. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of cer- tain other commodities are also reserved for govern- ment agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For most private exports, however, a repatriation commitment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Commercial Bank of Syria within six months after the date of export. The proceeds of ex- ports must be surrendered to the Exchange Office at the parallel rate. Certain manufactured exports receive sub- sidies from the Fund for the Development of Exports of Industrial Products. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of 12Y2 per cent ad valorem. All exports of agricultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valo- rem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from pipeline royalties must be sold at the official rate and those from other invisibles at the paral- lel rate. Nonresidents entering the Syrian Arab Repub- lic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form. Foreign banknotes may be brought in freely by residents and nonresidents. Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers take place at the parallel rate. Imports of private funds in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents. The export of capi- tal requires the approval of the Exchange Office, as does most borrowing abroad. Special facilities for in- vestment of Arab capital in the Syrian Arab Republic are provided by Legislative Decree No. 348 of Decem- ber 29, 1969. Other facilities permitting residents and nonresidents of any nationality to open foreign cur- rency accounts in the Syrian Arab Republic with im- ported funds are based on Decree No. 779 of April 1, 1970 and Order No. 191 of April 23, 1970. Neither type of facility is applicable to funds received over clearing accounts or by diplomatic and UN missions and their staffs. Order No. 265 of June 10, 1970 regu- lates the investment of funds of immigrants and of 456 nationals of Arab States in the economic development of the Syrian Arab Republic. There is also a Foreign Investment Law issued in 1971. Immovable property in the Syrian Arab Republic may not without prior ap- proval be acquired by nonresidents or foreign nationals other than resident Arab nationals. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. The domes- tic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line with free market prices abroad. Imports and exports of gold are subject to import or export licensing. Import payments require the approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted only for imports for industrial use or for re-export. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1974 January L The bilateral payments agreement with Hungary was terminated retroactively by virtue of an agreement signed on February 27, 1974. January 9. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, which since July 18, 1973 had been LS 3.75 and LS 3.80 per US$1, were changed to LS 3.85 buying and LS 3.90 selling. January 15. Orders Nos. 25 and 26 simplified the import licensing requirements for imports by the public sector. February 7. Private sector interests were permitted to sign loan agreements with foreign investors for private development projects; interest and amortization on such loans could be freely transferred abroad in con- vertible currencies (Decree No. 76). February 9. Arab nationals resident in the Syrian Arab Republic could freely acquire real estate in the country. Blocked assets originating from previous sales of such real estate by Arab nationals were released (Decree No. 78). February 27. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LS 3.70 and LS 3.75 per US$1. March 7. Residents and nonresidents were freely per- mitted to import and export foreign banknotes (Order No. 172). March 7. Order No. 173 introduced certain facilities for private sector importers not requesting foreign ex- change for their imports. Such importers who had been or would be granted either an import license or a form prescribing the use of credit facilities (autorisation d'op- erations) could immediately open letters of credit through the Commercial Bank of Syria, provided they paid the Bank the countervalue of the letter of credit in an "acceptable" foreign currency. Importers did not have to account for the source of the foreign exchange. March 22. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LS 3.65 and LS 3.70 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 1. Order No. 382 permitted travelers arriving by air to import without a license, for their own use, goods valued at up to LS 750, and those arriving by road or ship, goods valued at up to LS 500. For travel- ers arriving from Lebanon or Jordan the ceiling was LS 250. July 7. Authorized travel agencies, hotels, and airline companies were permitted to purchase foreign exchange (Decree No. 529). August 22. New trade and payments arrangements were agreed with Poland. The bilateral payments agreement would be allowed to expire on December 31. October 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Egypt was terminated. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with Poland and Romania expired. SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC NOTES 1 Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, German Democratic Republic, North Korea, Poland, Romania, Sri Lanka, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Settlements with Poland and Romania were placed on a convertible currency basis with effect from January 1, 1975. 2 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in the Syrian Arab Republic for more than a year. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of fine gold per Tanzania Shilling. A central rate of T Sh 7.14286 = US$ 1 has been established, and Tanzania avails itself of wider margins. On December 31, 1974, the Bank of Tanzania's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were T Sh 7.1071 and T Sh 7.1786 per US$1, respec- tively. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Govern- ment and with authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda shillings (except Uganda banknotes) against Tanzania shillings at par. Administration of Control The Minister for Finance has delegated the adminis- tration of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzania. Authority for approving normal import payments, some payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the two authorized banks, the National Bank of Commerce and the People's Bank of Zanzibar. On the mainland, import control is administered by the Imports Controller in the Bank of Tanzania and export control by the Exports Controller in the Minis- try of Commerce and Industries. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controllers, to whom applications should be sub- mitted by the importer or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Im- port applications for commodities the importation of which is confined to specified parastatal organizations must be submitted through the respective parastatal organization. Zanzibar administers an independent sys- tem of foreign trade controls; all imports and the prin- cipal exports are made by the state trading agencies (Bizanje and the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Tanzania has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory un- der the terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Settlements between residents of Tanza- nia and nonresidents normally must be made either in convertible currencies or by debit or credit to External Accounts in Tanzania shillings. Certain proceeds must be received in specified currencies.l Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Remittances to South Africa are prohibited, with the exception of those for pensions payable by the Government of Tanzania or by the East African Community organizations. 458 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by residents of foreign countries other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments to residents of such countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts in Tanzania, and for authorized pur- chases of foreign currencies from authorized dealers. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Imports originat- ing in Kenya and Uganda are in principle unrestricted but some require specific licenses and others may only be imported by or on behalf of specified parastatal organizations. Certain goods listed in the Imports Con- trol Notice, 1974 may be imported freely, irrespective of country of origin, while other goods listed require specific licenses. Most goods may normally be im- ported only by or on behalf of specified parastatal orga- nizations. All imports to the mainland from Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate out- side Zanzibar. All imports from metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports into Zanzibar are made by government agencies. Transfer taxes are levied on a range of manufactured goods when imported from and originating in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at rates ranging up to 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. Advance payments for imports are allowed in excep- tional circumstances only, exchange for import pay- ments normally not being granted until after customs clearance. Most suppliers' credit requires the prior ap- proval of the Bank of Tanzania. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are con- trolled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to estab- lished limits; amounts above these limits may be ap- proved administratively by the Bank of Tanzania. Facilities exist whereby immigrant noncitizens work- ing in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventu- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ally may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to 33Y3 per cent of their mon th ly salary uncommitted to cover family maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of 33Y3 per cent of salary or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month are consid- ered on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Specified categories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of their salaries. Persons making uncommitted remittances under these arrangements are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). The basic exchange allocations for tourist travel are suspended, but exceptions are granted by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. Dividend remittances to nonresident shareholders and fam i ly remittances to relatives abroad also are suspended. Resident travelers are allowed to take out T Sh 100 in domestic currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, all Portuguese territories, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. On the main- land, exports of products dealt with by state trad ing organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and, if there is a local shortage, may be restricted. Other goods may be exported w i thout li- cense. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzibar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Exporters are required to be registered w i th the Bank of Tanzania, and must maintain an account w i th a local commercial bank. Export proceeds must be collected in convertible currencies w i th in one to two mon ths from the date of exportation and must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies1 must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may freely bring in convertible foreign cur- rency notes; a re tu rn ing traveler may br ing in up to T Sh 100 in Tanzania shilling notes. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are subject to con- trol by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted; all capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immedi- ately prior to the date of application and who have not been availing themselves of the fac i l i ty of mak ing un- committed remittances of savings may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 20,000 for each household. Any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 20,000 are remittable in yearly in- stallments of T Sh 20,000 each, af ter which any re- maining amount will be considered for repatriation. TANZANIA Gifts to nonresidents require the prior approval of the Bank of Tanzania. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzania, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is advisable to have the investment recognized by the Bank of Tanzania or to obtain a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protec- tion) Act, 1963. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production requires approval under the East African Licensing Ordinance. All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Tanzanian securities from residents on a recognized East African stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as are the proceeds on resale. Purchases of securities outside Tan- zania by residents are not normally permitted. All loans or overdrafts from residents to nonresi- dents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies require exchange control approval by the Bank of Tanzania. Gold A commemorative gold coin is legal tender but does not circulate within Tanzania. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzania for numismatic pur- poses. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are subject to individual licensing by the Bank of Tan- zania. Import licenses for gold jewelry are issued by the Bank of Tanzania and are normally available to gold- smiths only. Licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, industrial users, and producers of newly mined gold; imports are limited to an overall import quota. Changes during 1974 January 14. The central rate was changed from T Sh 6.90000 = US$1 to T Sh 7.14286 = US$1. Tan- zania continued to avail itself of wider margins. The relationship to the Kenya shilling and the Uganda shil- ling remained unchanged. March L Circular No. 36 modified the arrangements regarding exchange allocations for business travel and delegated their approval to authorized banks. The stan- dard allocation for business travel was maintained un- changed at the equivalent of T Sh 250 a day a person for travel to Kenya and Uganda, and T Sh 350 a day a person for travel elsewhere, but the number of days for which these amounts could be made available, for each trip, was doubled. The permissible number of trips during a year, previously unlimited, was restricted to two in the case of each resident company engaged in 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA industrial production or export business, and one in the case of resident companies engaged in import business. Exceptions required Bank of Tanzania approval. June 14. Government Notice No. 142 prohibited the importation of electronic calculators and television sets. June 24. Circular No. 36 of March 1, 1974 was mod- ified. Basic exchange allocations for tourist travel were suspended. Dividend remittances to nonresident share- holders and family remittances from residents to rela- tives abroad also were suspended. Exceptions would be considered by the Bank of Tanzania on a case-by-case basis. July 29. Tanzania advised the GATT that it had ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the General Agree- ment in respect of Japan. August 16. Government Notice No. 202 amended Government Notice No. 142 of June 14 to the effect that exceptions to the import prohibition could be au- thorized by the Minister of Finance. September 12. No import licenses were issued for the time being for such items as tobacco, spirits, and cer- tain electrical appliances. October 1. Foreign insurance companies could no longer act as agents for the National Insurance Corpo- ration. October 1. The Imports Control Notice, 1974 (Gov- ernment Notice No. 242) came into effect. The number of goods on open general import license was reduced and exchange allocations for a number of items subject to specific license were reduced. Additional commodi- ties could only be imported by or through parastatal organizations; among these were all motor vehicles (State Motor Corporation), salt and cement (State Mining Corporation), and processed films and phono- graph records (Tanzania Film Corporation). NOTE 1 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kro- ner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Sri Lanka rupees, Swed- ish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all other Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tanzania shil- lings, and Uganda shillings. 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0368331 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht, corresponding to B 20.00 = US$1, and Thailand avails itself of wider margins. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U.S. dollars with commercial banks. On December 31, 1974, the buying and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange trans- actions with banks in U.S. dollars were B 20.325 buy- ing, and B 20.425 selling, per US$1; on the same date, the authorized banks' rates were B 20.30 buying, and B 20.45 selling, per US$1. The authorized banks' rates for other currencies are based on their buying and sell- ing rates for the U.S. dollar and the New York rates for such currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and autho- rized companies) and to authorized persons. All incom- ing exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given auto- matically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current payments). Imports of gold require a li- cense issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with foreign countries; payments are made largely in sterling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Trans- ferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresident accounts require approval; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for foreign diplomatic entities, international organizations stationed in Thailand, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Ac- counts may be credited freely with the proceeds from sales to authorized banks of foreign currency trans- ferred from abroad, with amounts transferred from other Transferable Accounts, and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transferable Accounts are convertible into foreign cur- rency at any time and may be debited freely for the purchase of foreign currencies for transfer abroad, for transfers to other Transferable Accounts, for payments in respect of exports, and for any other payments to residents. Funds that must be credited to Blocked Ac- counts include proceeds of installment sales of books, rentals accruing in Thailand, freight in transit trade, proceeds from sales of assets of emigrating residents of Thai nationality, and funds that cannot be identified as eligible for credit to a Transferable Account. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand; ap- proval is granted when no capital transfer on behalf of a Thai national is involved. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but im- port licenses are required for some commodities, and the import of certain other items is prohibited. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhode- sia are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Import licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia. Payments for imports may be approved by autho- rized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance pay- ments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addi- tion to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods ex- ceeding B 10,000 in value can be cleared through cus- toms; military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain minor categories of imports are exempt from this requirement. Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments and transfers for current international transactions. Payments for in- visibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank or otherwise by the Bank of Thai- land; exchange is provided freely and promptly. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remitted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or branch office of an insurance company registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned in- come after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family maintenance abroad, and educa- tional expenses abroad, authorized agents are permit- ted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. For foreign 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND travel and family remittances, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain limits. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equiva- lent of US$630, or US$40 a day for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, addi- tional foreign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be obtained in certain cases for enter- tainment expenses. The amount of foreign exchange that an authorized bank may sell for family remittances is US$200 a month for each transferor for Europe and the United States and US$ 150 a month for each trans- feror for other countries. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verifica- tion. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a family traveling on one pass- port) or foreign currency exceeding US$140 (US$280 for a family traveling on a single passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Transit passengers and tourists, however, may take out any amount of foreign exchange without prior authori- zation. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports or re-exports to Rhodesia require an indi- vidual license. Certain categories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.1 All other com- modities may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of ex- portation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for ship- ments of tin or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station, and, with minor excep- tions, for other goods exceeding B 10,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate is in- tended to assure repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to authorized agents within 7 days of receipt; their surren- der must take place within 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, or 15 days after the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 180 days after the date of export. Foreign tourists may freely take out precious stones and gold or platinum orna- ments up to any value but require a "certificate of ex- portation" to take out any other articles with a total value in excess of B 10,000. The export of most types of rice and rice products and of sugar is subject to export taxes referred to as export premiums. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an autho- rized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a fam- ily traveling on the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. 462 Capital All outward transfers of capital, including premiums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. The Bank of Thailand approves the remittance of donations and gifts of a reasonable amount. Foreign exchange from inward capital move- ments must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the transfer must be declared. Foreign in- vestments in Thailand can be accorded preferential treatment under Notice No. 227 of the National Execu- tive Council (issued October 21, 1972); this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatria- tion of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is normally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Certain economic ac- tivities are reserved for Thai nationals. The contracting of suppliers' credits abroad requires Bank of Thailand approval. All other private loans taken up abroad may be registered with the Bank to facilitate approval of outward remittances. The public sector requires the approval of the National Economic Development Board to negotiate external loans. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial im- ports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry periodically fixes an authorized quantity of imports. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity for a certain period. In addition to this premium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is required to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of US$1.75 per troy ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par value. In 1974, however, no license was awarded for the importation of gold bullion. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited, while those of gold ornaments, when not effected by foreign tourists and exceeding B 5,000 in value, require a certif- icate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presentation to the customs, but bear no export duty or taxes. Foreign tourists may without a certificate of ex- portation take out gold ornaments up to any value. The conveyance of gold in transit is not restricted and is free of customs charges. Changes during 1974 January 17. Export licenses were required for various types of fuel, including crude petroleum, kerosene, die- sel oil, and fuel oil. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 31. New, reduced export premium rates for rice were established. The rice reserve ratio was reduced from 100 per cent to 50 per cent of the quan t i ty ex- ported. February 4. Export licenses were required for deter- gents, vegetable oils for cooking, pulp, wood-free pa- per, newsprint, insecticides, polyester fiber, monosodium glutamate, and certain other items. February 20. Export licenses were required for all types of fertilizers. March 12. The export licensing requirement was lifted for k r a ft and other kinds of papers, corrugated paper cartons, paper bags, and man-made discontinu- ous polyester fiber. March 13. The export of cement was made subject to export license. March 13. A bill was introduced which would l i ft the ban on trade with the People's Republic of China. It was not enacted during 1974. March 19. The export licensing requirement was lifted for flour and fish meal. March 22. New, increased export premium rates for rice were established. The rice export quota was re- duced by 50 per cent for the second quarter of the year. April 22. The export licensing requirement was rein- troduced for k ra ft paper. June 5. A ceiling on exports of cotton yarn was introduced, at 25 per cent of the mon th ly stock in each fac tory. June 8. A ceiling on exports of yarn of rayon fibers and yarn of polysonic fibers was introduced, at 75 per cent of the monthly stock in each factory. June 8. A ceiling on exports of yarn of tetoron rayon fibers was introduced, at 25 per cent of the monthly stock in each factory. June 13. A ceiling on exports of yarn of tetoron THAILAND cotton fibers was introduced, at 25 per cent of the mon th ly stock in each factory. June 18. Exports of sugar became subject to export premiums. June 25. The granting of export licenses for brown sugar was suspended. June 26. Export premium rates for rice were reduced to the rates established on January 31, except for the premium rate on glutinous rice for export to Laos, which remained unchanged. July 10. Import duties were reduced by 33 to 90 per cent for about 300 items, including chemicals, machin- ery, pharmaceutical products, and metals. August 19. The export of logs and of certain wood products was made subject to export license. September 16. The export of raw sugar and of refined sugar mixed with coconut sugar or palm sugar was prohibited. October 30. New, reduced export premium rates for rice were established. The rate for glutinous rice for export to Laos remained unchanged. November 1. Import licenses were required for nylon fibers, stretched nylon yarn, and polyester fibers. November 25. An alien business law went into effect; 14 specified occupations were reserved for Thai nation- als. December 25. New, reduced export premium rates for rice were established. The rate for glutinous rice for export to Laos remained unchanged. NOTE 1 These include gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, sorghum, corn, rice and rice products, all kinds of sugar, brass and copper in certain forms, iron scrap and most forms of iron other than pig iron and iron ore, and Deva and Buddha images and their parts. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 =0 .02 French franc. Exchange transac- tions in French francs, the intervention currency, be- tween the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de FOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02; the BCEAO levies a commission of YIO of 1 per mill for transfers within the West African Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the Union. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Togo's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Togo itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to ex- change control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which also supervises borrow- ing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Some of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of banks, financial institu- tions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through autho- rized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Divi- sion in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Economy. 464 Prescription of Currency Togo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settle- ments with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is not permitted, except for credits to Foreign Accounts held by foreign correspondents of authorized banks, which may be credited with BCEAO banknotes mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Lome by those correspondents. Imports and Import Payments Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all imports of Portuguese or South African origin are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but require the prior authorization of the Foreign Trade Division in the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry, when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more and destined for commercial purposes. Imports from all other countries require individual import li- censes when valued at CFAF 10,000 or more. In prin- ciple, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program which is to be established each year and which may include recommendations by a joint French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Eco- nomic Cooperation Agreement with France; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are granted. There are no formal import free lists. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is conditional, in principle, on the purchase of a quantity of the local product equal to the quantity to be imported; in practice, this require- ment is no longer enforced. The Societe Nationale de Commerce (SONACOM) has an import monopoly for sugar, rice, flour, canned milk, soap, salt, corrugated iron, and iron rods. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than one mon th before shipment if a docu- mentary credit is opened or one month before the pay- ment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Certain payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Mo- naco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted by a general authorization when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of prof- its, dividends, and royalties are also permitted by a general authorization. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip for any number of trips a year (CFAF 87,500 for chil- dren under ten); any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter return to Togo must be surrendered within eight days of re-entry. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner wo rk ing in Togo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, residence permit, and work permit, provided that the transfer takes place within three mon ths of the pay period. Residents may at any time and w i thout indicating the purpose of the transfer make payments abroad, through an authorized bank, of up to CFAF 50,000 per transfer. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but if going to a coun try that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign bank- notes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en t ry2 or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000. Nonresident travelers may also freely take out any amount of letters of credit and travelers checks drawn up in their names abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Certain ex- ports to Rhodesia and all exports to Portugal and TOGO South Africa are prohibited. The Office Togolais des Phosphates has a monopoly over the export of phos- phates and the Office des Produits Agricoles du Togo (OPAT) has a monopoly over the export of cacao, cof- fee, cotton, groundnuts, and certain other commodi- ties. The due date for payments for exports to foreign countries cannot be later than 180 days after the arrival of the goods at their destination and the proceeds must be surrendered within a month after the due date if the contract is invoiced in a currency other than that of France or of an Operations Account country; autho- rized diamond purchasing offices, however, may retain such foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency ac- counts with authorized banks in Togo. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered within one mon th of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue maintaining an Op- erations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resident travelers must within eight days sell to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes and foreign cur- rency travelers checks they bring in in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Togo and France (as de- fined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Ac- count countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval by the Minister of Finance and Economy and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad; these controls relate to the transactions them- selves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those relating to foreign securities and the soliciting of funds in Togo, these control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Mone- 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO tary Union, and those other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Oper- ations Account. There also are special controls applica- ble to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investments abroad by residents of Togo require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy.3 Foreign direct investments in Togo4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submit- ted to him. The total or partial liquidation of any in- ward direct investment or any outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese investments abroad or foreign in- vestments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy and to the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Togo requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares that are similar to, or may be substituted for, securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in Togo has previously been autho- rized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct invest- ment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indi- cated above; (2) loans contracted by registered banks; (3) loans taken up either by industrial firms to finance works abroad or by approved international merchant- ing houses to finance imports or exports; and (4) in certain circumstances, any other loans, provided that the outstanding amount for any one borrower does not exceed CFAF 100 million. The repayment of any for- eign borrowing requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement are loans con- stituting a direct investment, loans taken up by autho- rized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to special authorization by the Directorate of Economy. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accor- dance with their importance to the economic develop- ment of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating 466 to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption from import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (Law No. 65-10 of July 21, 1965, as amended by Ordinance No. 2 of January 10, 1973) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special founding agree- ment by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance and Economy. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a mi- nor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1974 January 10. Ordinance No. 8 of January 15 made the export of phosphates the monopoly of the Office Togolais des Phosphates. January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies within predetermined margins. An official deci- sion to this effect was taken by the Council of the West African Monetary Union on January 24. February 2. The phosphate mining industry was na- tionalized. March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Togo also ceased to operate. The financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official exchange market and through For- eign Accounts in Francs. The relevant exchange con- trol regulations were issued in Togo on June 12. June 12. Order No. 199/MFE revoked Order No. 222/MFE of July 5, 1972. All purchases and sales ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO of foreign currencies (spot or forward) and all pay- ments between Togo and foreign countries or between a resident and a nonresident henceforth had to be made through the official exchange market. June 12. Circular No. 5 modified Circular No. 25 of December 31, 1968 (as amended) concerning nonresi- dent accounts in francs and foreign securities dossiers in light of the abolition of the dual exchange market. July 4. Togo advised the GATT that it had ceased to invoke Article XXXV of the General Agreement with respect to Japan. NOTES 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cur- rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 This amount is adjusted for (1) the amount of foreign currency sold for CFA francs; and (2) for any foreign cur- rency acquired in Togo by (a) debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or a Foreign Account in Foreign Currency, (b) the conversion of foreign currency travelers checks, etc., made out in the name of the traveler, and (c) any repurchases of foreign currency (permitted up to CFAF 175,000) with CFA francs resulting f rom the sale of foreign currency. 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. 4 Including those made by companies in Togo that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Trinidad and Tobago Dollar, and Trinidad and Tobago avails itself of wider margins. However, a fixed relation- ship with sterling is maintained of TT$4.80 = £ stg. 1, and all transactions except those in sterling and curren- cies directly linked to sterling take place at fluctuating rates. On December 31, 1974, the Central Bank's buy- ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar (inclusive of exchange charges) were TT$204.40894 and TT$204.55998, respectively, per US$100. The Central Bank quotes daily rates at which it stands ready to deal with the commercial banks in foreign currencies as well as the rates at which the commercial banks must operate with the public in these currencies in transactions not exceeding TT$100,000.1 For transactions in excess of TT$ 100,000 the commer- cial banks are required to quote rates to the public not less favorable than those fixed by the Central Bank for smaller transactions. Foreign exchange transactions through the Central Bank are for amounts of TT$25,000 and above and are subject to exchange charges up to a maximum of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers; at present the rates charged by the Central Bank to commercial banks are V2 of 1 per cent on outward transfers and nil on inward transfers. Ster- ling exchange transactions through commercial banks are subject to varying exchange charges according to the amount and mode of transfer. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Au- thority (East Caribbean dollars) and the Central Bank of Barbados are not legal tender in Trinidad and To- bago, but under an arrangement with the monetary authorities concerned the notes are purchased by the monetary authorities and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to col- lections of Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Administration of Control The authority to administer exchange control is vested in the Central Bank, acting as agent of the Gov- ernment. The Central Bank has delegated its exchange control authority with respect to import payments to certain officials of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce and with respect to payments up to specified amounts for certain current invisibles to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are is- sued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Min- istry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for compul- sory surrender of foreign currency2'3 and for control over both current and capital transactions. All overseas payments and transfers require the approval of the ex- 468 change control authorities; payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Short-term credit transac- tions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents and local nonresident-controlled companies, are also subject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regula- tions continues to be regarded as a country of the Over- seas Sterling Area. In practice, settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made only in sterling or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by crediting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by debiting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified cur- rency4 other than Rhodesian currency. Special regula- tions apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Exter- nal Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of Trinidad and Tobago that have been approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currencies to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of Trinidad and Tobago; for transfers to other External Accounts; and for purchases of foreign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling or any other foreign cur- rency and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the exception that transfers from External Accounts held by residents of the Sterling Area to any country outside Trinidad and Tobago other than that of the holder's residence are conditional upon the Central Bank being satisfied that the exchange control authorities of the holder's country of residence do not object. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., pro- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or proceeds from the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Ac- counts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in local securities which are not redeem- able either optionally or contractually within four years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be credited to an External Account. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Most imports from other countries are free of quantitative restriction. For import control pur- poses, countries are divided into two groups: (1) Alba- nia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia; and (2) all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. The import and customs regulations include prohibi- tion or stringent control, state trading, individual li- censing, and open general license arrangements. (1) Some of the main imports that are prohibited or are subject to stringent control are cosmetics, saccha- rin, coffee and cocoa beans, mechanical gambling de- vices, beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans, and complete passenger automobiles. Firearms, ammunition, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. (2) Certain food products are covered by the Agricul- tural Marketing Protocol of the Caribbean Common Market (CARICOM) Treaty (Schedule VIII of the An- nex). Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity sub- ject to state trading. This rice is normally imported from Guyana at agreed prices.5 (3) All commodities other than those specified under (1) and (2) above are imported under either an individ- ual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the countries from which the commodities are im- ported. (a) Imports from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, North Ko- rea, Poland, Romania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. All imports from these countries require a specific li- cense. In practice, licenses are granted reasonably freely on a case-by-case basis for imports from these countries of commodities not on the "negative" list mentioned under (b) below. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. For imports from these countries, a "negative" list is published which lists all goods subject to individual licensing. (Specific licenses are usually not required for the importation of such goods, however, when they qualify for preferential treatment within CARICOM.) All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises over TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 400 tariff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, depending on the supply position of the domestic industry and with due regard to any obligatory restrictions arising from the requirements of international commodity agreements or other factors. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than those under (a) above, no discrimi- nation is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved, with the exception that CARICOM commitments are taken into account. Payments for all imports require exchange control approval. If prescription of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is in- volved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen- tary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia and South Africa are con- cerned. Under authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for for- eign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invis- ibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$ 1,200 a person a year. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Trav- elers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (TT$ 1,200) in foreign currency notes. Non- residents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on depar- ture, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited. Exports of certain listed goods require an indi- vidual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petroleum and pe- troleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open gen- eral license. In addition, general licenses may be issued, at the discretion of the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce, in response to applications. General licenses have been issued, for example, to permit petroleum companies and sugar companies to export without spe- cific licenses.6 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Export proceeds received in foreign currencies must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a por- tion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum com- panies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in foreign currencies must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and To- bago are usually authorized to maintain operating ac- counts for receipts and expenditures in foreign currency which are inherent parts of their businesses. These com- panies give periodic accounts of their exchange transac- tions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes up to the equivalent of TT$50. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago require approval and generally are restricted. However, repay- ment of commercial credits and transfers of legacies are permitted freely, and gifts to nonresidents and emigra- tion allowances are approved up to specified limits; furthermore, as a matter of policy, capital transfers to other CARICOM countries are permitted liberally. Cer- tain international institutions may be permitted, on a case-by-case basis, to borrow in Trinidad and Tobago. For transactions in securities, 14 authorized deposi- tories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities other than securities expressed in Trinidad and Tobago dollars. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is permitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other invest- ments owned by nonresidents of Trinidad and Tobago may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Non- resident Accounts, above); however, approval is often given to residents to purchase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago after January 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to per- sons resident outside Trinidad and Tobago, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, pro- vided that the full proceeds of sale are received in for- eign currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. Foreign exchange 470 is not normally provided for portfolio investment by residents in foreign securities, but when securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside Trinidad and Tobago, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside Trinidad and Tobago in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irre- deemable or are not redeemable within four years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not discrimi- nate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required, however, to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordinance in order to hold inter- est in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective foreign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and To- bago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must satisfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of any currency other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar (not necessarily the original currency of investment) or, alternatively, that if any loss is involved it can be justi- fied in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incentive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and in im- port-substitution industries. This provides for the granting of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in Trinidad and Tobago or which are hot being conducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for future development. Every pioneer manufacturer is en- titled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. The proceeds (including capital gains) realized from part or all of a direct capital investment made after January 1, 1950 by a nonresident of Trinidad and To- bago in an approved project may, if desired, be repatri- ated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the following ways: in foreign currency (including sterling) appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied from the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions: (1) The right will not normally apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital invest- ment project. (2) When an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident individuals and firms (other than residents of other CARICOM countries) and to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such com- panies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to supplement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Each commercial bank must maintain the monthly av- erage of its net foreign exchange position within a speci- fied quan t i ta t ive ceiling. Gold Gold is defined by the Exchange Control Act, 1970 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with specific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance: (1) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Resi- dents are permitted in appropriate cases, however, to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and To- bago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is adminis- tered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce by regulations scheduled under the Trade Ordinance, 1958 (as amended). Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary au- thorities. Imports of unrefined gold from non-CARicOM sources are subject to import du ty at 5 per cent (prefer- ential duty) or 15 per cent (general duty), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential duty) or TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 25 per cent (general duty). They are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1974 January 16. It was announced that Trinidad and Tobago had arranged a borrowing of US$12 million in the international capital market. September 4. An interim trade agreement with Haiti was signed pending consideration of Haiti's application to join CARICOM. October 5. Trinidad and Tobago signed an agreement whereby the Central Bank purchased from the Inter- American Development Bank bonds in the amount of US$10 million. October 24. The issuance of import licenses for gar- ments manufactured outside the CARICOM area was temporarily suspended, while the import policy for these items was being reviewed. December 5. Trinidad and Tobago signed an agree- ment for a loan to the International Bank for Recon- struction and Development of US$5 million. NOTES 1 The currencies for which the Central Bank quotes daily rates are Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars, in addition to Guyana dollars, Jamaica dollars, and East Caribbean dollars. 2 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regula- tions, all currencies other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar are considered foreign currencies. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and payments in foreign currencies, permis- sion may be granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Foreign Currency Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the account must be submitted to the authorities. 4 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Cana- dian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian currency, South Afri- can rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 5 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commer- cial channels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 6 On January 1, 1975, a graduated levy was introduced on exports of sugar. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA1 (Position on January 1, 1975) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tuni- sian Dinar, corresponding to D 0.435197 = US$1, and Tunisia avails itself of wider margins. However, since January 23, 1974 the Central Bank of Tunisia has es- tablished daily buying and selling rates for foreign cur- rencies in light of quotations abroad. The Central Bank quotes 17 convertible currencies.2 The buying and sell- ing rates of the authorized banks are identical with those of the Central Bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank, including the authorization of payments for im- ports and invisibles; some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Directorate of Trade of the Ministry of National Econ- omy which, in collaboration with the Central Bank, establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements between Tunisia and foreign countries are made in convertible currencies quoted by the Cen- tral Bank2 or in convertible Tunisian dinars through the Foreign Accounts of residents of those countries. Certain settlements between Tunisia and Algeria and Morocco may be effected through accounts in the na- tional currencies concerned at the central banks. There is an inoperative payments arrangement with India. Payments to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by nonresidents. They may be credited freely with au- thorized payments by residents to the holders of the accounts, with dinar proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies (except banknotes), w i th interest on balances in these accounts, and w i th trans- fers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Di- nars; all other credits require prior authorization. They may be debited freely for payments of any k ind in Tunisia (irrespective of the coun try of residence of the nonresident payor), for transfers to other Foreign Ac- counts in Convertible Dinars, and for the purchase of any foreign currency from the Central Bank. These accounts may bear interest at the same rates as resi- dent-owned demand and time deposits in dinars. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Foreign Currencies may be established by nonresidents by transfers of con- vertible foreign currencies. They may also be credited with the proceeds of checks or travelers checks ex- 472 pressed in convertible currencies. Funds in these ac- counts may be transferred abroad at any time, and they may also be sold to the Central Bank. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any country. The opening of a Capital Account by a non- resident of Tunisian nationality or his spouse must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global Capital Accounts for their nonresident cus- tomers. Subject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be credited, without prior approval of the Central Bank, w i th the proceeds of the sale on the stock ex- change or of the contractual or advance redemption of Tunisian securities, the sales proceeds of real estate or rights to real estate situated in Tunisia, and with funds from a Capital Account held by a person having the nationality of a country belonging to the same mone- tary area as that of the holder of the account to be credited. Subject to certain conditions, these accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in companies, and real estate. Irrespec- tive of the holder's coun try of residence, Capital Ac- counts may be debited freely for living expenses in Tunisia of the holder and his fam i ly, up to D 50 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 1,000 for each fam i ly a year, and balances existing at the end of 1973 and not exceeding D 1,000 may be transferred abroad. Subject to certain conditions, Capital Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of Tunisian securities and real estate and for participations in the capital of com- panies. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents (comptes INR)are intended mainly for foreigners staying temporarily in Tunisia and receiving income in dinars there; the open- ing of these accounts requires the approval of the Cen- tral Bank, and balances can be used only in Tunisia. Internal Nonresident Export Accounts (comptes INRE) may be credited w i th the salaries of foreign nationals employed in enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38, which provides for certain export incen- tives. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of credit- ing all proceeds accruing in Tunisia to nonresidents that are awaiting either their utilization in Tunisia for specified purposes or the approval of the Central Bank for their transfer abroad or their transfer to other non- resident accounts. Subject to certain conditions, Sus- pense Accounts may be debited w i thout the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of pur- chases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, payments to the Tuni- sian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder (irrespective of his country of residence) or his family up to D 50 a person a week and not exceeding ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution D 1,000 a year for any one fam i ly. Balances existing at the end of 1973 and not exceeding D 1,000 are transfer- able abroad. All other debits to these accounts require the individual authorization of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Savings Accounts in Foreign Currency may be main- tained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian physical or juridical persons who are resident abroad. These accounts may be credited w i th the coun- tervalue of convertible foreign currency remitted by the holder by postal t rans fer or by check. They may be debited f ree ly. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited, and the fo l low ing does not app ly to these countries. Liberalized imports require only an import certifi- cate, wh i le all other impor ts require approval, which may be given w i th in the f ramewo rk of a bilateral quota or a global quota. Imports of nonliberalized goods from the French Franc Area require an import authori- zation f rom the Directorate of Trade and a paymen ts authorization (on form X2) from the Central Bank. Impo r ts of nonliberalized goods f rom other countries require an import license f rom the Directorate of Com- merce and the visa of the Central Bank; in issuing the license, the Directorate obtains the opinion (avis tech- nique) of the competent m in i s t ry. Certain products may be imported from any country under special procedures, as follows. Certain spare parts and a few other commodities may be imported free of license against the presentation of an importer's card up to D 500 a year for each impor ter, and imports required by manu fac tu re rs for their own use or by cer- tain official agencies are licensed under annual import authorizations. Moreover, manufacturing industries producing exclusively for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may import freely any goods required for their production. Imports of specified commodities are licensed in such a manner as to ensure the utilization of tied foreign aid. Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to government monopo- lies, i.e., tobacco, matches, and p lay ing cards. In addi- tion, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, have been granted a monopo ly over the import of commodities fa l l ing within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, etc.). Impor ts by state agencies are subject to the same licens- ing arrangemen ts applicable to private imports. To obtain an import certificate, an import authoriza- tion, or an import license, importers must have received a customs code number. All import documents invo lv- ing paymen ts must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. In addition to customs duties, a num- ber of import taxes are applied. TUNISIA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this au tho r i ty has been delegated to the authorized banks. Payments for a number of current invisibles are ap- proved free ly, provided that they are properly docu- mented. These include various payments related to international trade (e.g., port services, warehousing, commissions, brokerage, and charges and prof i ts re- lated to trans it operations) and payments for process- ing, repair, assembly, royalties, patents and trademarks, taxes, fines, and court expenses, as well as payments of interest and amortization arising f rom contractual obligations to nonresidents. Approval is also given for remittances of p ro f i ts and dividends due to nonresidents. In addition, exporters holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for expenditures abroad in connection with participation in international trade fairs, and for commissions, customs duties, and various other expenses related to exports. Exporters as well as hotel owners may use EFAC balances free ly for public- ity expenses abroad, and up to fixed limits (see below) for certain other expenses. Physical persons and enter- prises producing for export and covered by Law No. 72-38 may freely make certain payments for invisi- bles; amounts credited to the Business Travel Accounts of resident firms covered by Law No. 72-38 in convert- ible dinars may be used for business travel up to D 4,000 a year for each enterprise. Payments for certain other current invisibles are ap- proved up to fixed limits. Residents traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange alloca- tion equivalent to D 50 a person (D 25 for children under ten). The allocation for study abroad is D 70 a mon th. Exporters and hotel owners holding EFAC ac- counts may use such balances up to the equivalent of D 2,000 a year for business travel abroad. Foreign na- tionals employed under contract may transfer up to 50 per cent of their net basic wages or salaries, subject to a maximum of D 150 a mon th if their family lives in Tunisia.3 Foreign experts employed by the public sec- tor may transfer abroad their mon th ly salaries up to the limits laid down in their contracts. Foreign salaried workers born in Tunisia may transfer 30 per cent of their net basic salaries, up to D 80 a mon th. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Un- less Central Bank permission is obtained, the reconver- sion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to 30 per cent of the amount of foreign cur- rency previously sold, subject to a maximum of D 100. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports are liberalized. Nonliberal- ized exports require an export authorization when sold to the French Franc Area and an export license when 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA sold outside that Area. The export of wine is the mo- nopoly of the Office du Vin and the export of cereals is the monopoly of the Office des Cereales. The export of olive oil is the monopoly of the Office National de FHuile. With the exceptions noted below, all export proceeds must be repatriated and surrendered, nor- mally within 15 days from the date payment is due if no credit is extended or, unless special authorization from the Central Bank is obtained, within 100 days after shipment if the goods are sold on credit. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts denominated in convertible dinars the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds. For exporters the limits are 4 per cent if export proceeds are repatriated more than 30 days after shipment of the merchandise, and 6 per cent if repatriation occurs within 30 days following ship- ment. For hotel owners, credits are limited to 4 per cent of their foreign exchange proceeds. Resident manufac- turing industries that produce exclusively for export and are covered by Law No. 72-38 may have credited to Business Travel Accounts in Convertible Dinars 2 per cent of their repatriated convertible currency export proceeds. Under the provisions of Law No. 72-38 of April 27, 1972, nonresident manufac tur ing enterprises (i.e., en- terprises whose capital is held by nonresidents and has been constituted to the extent of at least 66 per cent through the import of convertible currencies) produc- ing exclusively for export are exempt from the require- ment of repatriation and surrender of export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from countries outside the French Franc Area. However, there are certain EFAC facilities (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely; nonresident travelers wishing to re-export the equivalent of over D 500 must make a currency declaration upon entry. The import of Tuni- sian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guarantee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain certain benefits provided for by the Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) of June 26, 1969 and by Law No. 74-74 of August 3, 1974. These include a number of tax facilities as well as a guarantee of the right to repatriate capital and to transfer profits. Furthermore, Law No. 72-38 of 474 April 27, 1972 provides for various special benefits for nonresident manufacturing enterprises, including an exemption from the repatriation requirement in respect of export proceeds. Foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia and have left Tunisia permanently are entitled to the transfer of the following: 50 per cent of their assets for those who left before August 1970; D 4,000 for those who left after August 20, 1970 but before Decem- ber 31, 1973; and D 5,000 for those who left Tunisia after December 31, 1973. All capital transfers by residents and all loans to nonresidents require the approval of the Central Bank. Gifts or inheritances accruing to nonresidents are cred- ited to Capital Accounts. The amortization of loans taken up with Central Bank approval from nonresi- dents is freely transferable. Gold Five gold coins issued for commemorative purposes are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tunisia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By virtue of Law No. 63-46 of December 19, 1963, the Central Bank has a monopoly over the import of gold in the form of coins, ingots, or bars. Only dentists and speci- fied cooperatives of industrial users are eligible to pur- chase gold from the Central Bank. The export of gold is prohibited. Changes during 1974 January 1. Following the expiration on Decem- ber 31, 1973 of the bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, Poland, and the U.S.S.R., settlements between Tunisia and these countries were placed on a convertible currency basis. The countries concerned were shifted from the bilateral group to the area of convertibility. January 23. Following the floating of the French franc in the official exchange market in Paris, the Cen- tral Bank henceforth established daily buying and sell- ing rates for both the official and the financial French franc; the fixed buy ing and selling rates for the official French franc of D 0.09405 and D 0.09500 per F 1 were discontinued. January 25. Exchange Control Notice No. 127 of the Ministry of Finance was published regarding financial relations with the U.S.S.R. It provided that, with effect from January 1, 1974, the U.S.S.R. was part of the area of convertibility. February 12. The global import quotas for 1974 were published. March 19. Law No. 74 —12 was enacted concerning a guarantee on foreign investment capital under an ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agreement with the Libyan Arab Republic signed on June 6, 1973. March 21. Following the un if ica t ion of the dual ex- change market in France, the Central Bank ceased its quotations for the French financial franc. March 27. Central Bank Circular No. 74-22 an- nounced that settlements with the People's Republic of China were to be made in convertible currencies. How- ever, until September 30, 1974, payments in respect of letters of credit opened prior to April 1, 1974 would continue to be settled through the clearing accounts. Details were given in Exchange Control Notice No. 129 of April 26. April 16. Exchange Control Notice No. 128 pro- vided that authorized banks were henceforth permitted to pay interest on Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars, at rates to be set by the Central Bank. April 23. The list of bilateral quotas for imports from France during the first eight months of 1974 was pub- lished. April 24. Central Bank Circular No. 74-31 an- nounced that with effect from May 1, 1974, all settle- ments with Romania were to be made in convertible currencies. Details were given in Exchange Control No- tice No. 130 of April 26. May 2. Central Bank Circular No. 74-34 provided that the rates at which authorized banks could pay interest on Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars (see April 16) would be the same as those on resi- dent-held sight and time deposits. May 17. Central Bank Circular No. 74-28 relaxed the restrictions on the t rans fer abroad of funds held in Tunisia by nonresident foreign nationals and by depart- ing residents of foreign nationality. May 28. Central Bank Circular No. 74-38 provided special facilities to Tunisian residents going to Algeria and to Algerians in Tunisia, in respect of the t rans fer of salaries and other income as well as the transfer of funds upon final departure. TUNISIA June 77. A list of bilateral quotas for imports from France during 1974 was published; it replaced the one of April 23. August 6. A new investment law, Law No. 74-74 of August 3, was published. It was applicable to invest- ments in manufacturing industries. The Investment Code (Law No. 69-35) of June 26, 1969 ceased to be applicable to new investments in manufac tur ing indus- tries. November 9. A trade agreement with Portugal was signed. Previously, trade and payments between Tuni- sia and Portugal were prohibited. November 12. Central Bank circular No. 74-64 regu- lated the exchange allocations for pilgrimages. December 27. Central Bank Circular No. 74-72 and Exchange Control Notice No. 131 were issued regard- ing financial relations with Egypt. With effect from January 1, 1975 settlements were being placed on a convertible currency basis and Egypt would cease to be part of the bilateral group. The following changes took place at the beginning of 1975: January 1. Settlements w i th Egypt were placed on a convertible currency basis. The system of Foreign Ac- counts in Bilateral Dinars was terminated. NOTES 1 In view of certain changes that took place on January 1, 1975, this survey presents the position on that date. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Libyan dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pese- tas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 There are special regulations for those employed by non- resident manu fac tu r ing enterprises covered by Law No. 72-38 and producing exclusively for export. 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0592447 gram of f ine gold per Turkish Lira. The central rate is LT 14 = US$1, and Turkey avails itself of wider margins. The official rates for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, are LT 13.850 buying, and LT 14.127 selling, per US$1. The Central Bank also establishes from time to time official buying and selling rates for certain other cur- rencies. Pending the enactment of new legislation to elimi- na te interest payments on remittances by Turkish workers resident abroad, Turkey maintains a separate nominal rate for these, though the resulting effective exchange rate conforms to the central rate of LT 14 per US$ 1. Workers' remittances are converted at a buying rate of LT 10.3878 per US$1; when the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to an account with a bank in Turkey, the account is immediately credited with an additional 331/3 per cent of the amount converted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Trade control is the responsibility of the Min- istry of Commerce, which is also in charge of the prepa- ration of import programs. The Ministry of Commerce, or the Central Bank on the advice of the Ministry, allocates foreign exchange; certain foreign exchange al- locations for imports require prior approval of the com- petent ministry, even if the commodity is included in the liberalized lists. The Central Bank issues import licenses on instructions of the Ministry of Commerce. Export registration is carried out by professional orga- nizations (the Exporters Union, the Chambers of Com- merce, of Industry, and of Commerce and Industry) according to the instructions of the Ministry of Com- merce; export licenses are issued by this Ministry, which may delegate the issuance of export licenses to the professional organizations. Import and export li- censes for gold, however, are issued by the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency and Nonresident Accounts Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements1 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement, but proceeds from exports to these countries may be received in any convertible currency. Certain commercial settlements with the other members of the Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran and Pakistan) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settle- ments with other countries are made in convertible currencies; proceeds from exports to specified countries in Western Europe2 must be received in the currency of 476 any country in this group. Nonresidents are not permit- ted to open demand or time accounts in Turkey that are denominated in convertible Turkish liras. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited; imports of old, used and reconditioned, defective, substandard, soiled, or poor-quality goods are forbidden, except with the authorization of the Ministry of Commerce. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for five months,3 and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within six months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import mer- chants), industrialists (manufacturers importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and gov- ernment departments. Private individuals and corpo- rate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" issued by the Ministry of Commerce before submitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. The importer's tax status is taken into consideration when granting such certificates. However, exporters, mine operators, shipowners, building contractors who have undertaken the construction of state establish- ments, tourist establishments, and registered manufac- turers are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs; a certificate establishing their qualification is issued by the respective public authority, i.e., the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the Exporters Union, or the Ministry of Tourism and Information. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs, which are planned for one year. The import programs classify imports in two categories: (1) an annual list of liberalized goods, con- sisting of two parts (lists I and II), for which import licenses are issued freely; and (2) a list of goods subject to global quotas published annually. Imports of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are prohibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be im- ported when specifically authorized by the Ministry of Commerce. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilat- eral payments agreements;4 goods not included in ei- ther of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. Certain imports from member countries of the EEC are included in a list of liberalized items consolidated to the EEC and are free of quantitative restriction; most of the items on this list are included in liberalized lists I and II. Applications for import licenses for goods on the liberalized lists may be submitted at any time to autho- rized banks, which transfer them to the Ministry of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Commerce (or other public authority indicated) for ex- amination and prepare the import licenses and forward these to the Central Bank for approval on the Minis- try's instructions. For certain liberalized goods, the prior approval of the ministry concerned is also re- quired. There are special arrangements administered by the Ministry of Commerce to facilitate priority allocation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and supplementary materials required for export produc- tion. The list of import quotas contains quotas for regis- tered importers and for industrialists. Quotas for indus- trialists are allocated annually and those for private commercial importers three times a year. Imports on the quota list can be subdivided into two broad catego- ries —imports which do not, and impor ts which do, require a permit from a specified public body. Foreign exchange allocations for quota imports within the quantitative limit established for each quota item are made by the Central Bank for imports not requiring a permit, and by the Ministry of Commerce (on the ad- vice of the responsible authority) for those requiring a permit. Some of the quota imports also require a certifi- cate confirming that the articles are not manufactured by local industry and do not exist in the local market in sufficient quantity and quality; the required certifi- cate is the responsibility of the M in is try of Indu s t ry and Technology, which may delegate authority to the Chambers of Commerce and Industry. Registered importers have to submit their applica- tions for goods not requiring a permit through an au- thorized bank and the Central Bank to the Ministry of Commerce during the f irst mon th of each semester. Upon examination of applications, the Ministry of Commerce instructs the Central Bank to issue a foreign exchange allocation letter valid for four months, and an import license must be secured from the Central Bank within the period of validity of the foreign exchange allocation letter. Applications for imports against in- dustrialists' quotas where no permit is required have to be submitted through the Chambers of Commerce and Industry to the Ministry of Commerce in April of each year. Applications for quo ta imports requ ir ing a permit from a specified public authority must be submitted to the responsible body each semester by importers and each year by industrialists. Upon examination of the application, the Ministry of Commerce instructs the responsible body to issue a foreign exchange allocation valid for four mon ths, but not longer than one mon th beyond the period of effectiveness of the quota list. An import license must then be secured from the Central Bank during the period of validity of the exchange allocation. Under a system of pre-import price control, which has been suspended but not abolished, imports are to be made at the best ruling world market prices. For this purpose, whenever the system is reinstated, a certificate TURKEY must be obtained from the Office of Price Registration and Control after issuance of the import license or the certificate of foreign exchange allocation. However, public sector imports of goods on liberalization list I may be authorized by the Central Bank without a price conformity certificate. The import license permits the necessary foreign ex- change payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against letters of credit, documents, or goods (i.e., upon customs clearance). When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local cur- rency, at the time of application for an import license, the equivalent of the foreign exchange for which they have applied. For payments against documents or against goods, importers and industrialists are required to prepay half of the value of the imports with the application for an import license; this requirement, however, has been suspended. Importers are required to make the foreign exchange transfer within four months from the date of the import license for payments against documents and within two months f rom the date of customs clearance for pay- ments against goods. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are sub- ject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberalization or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilat- eral quotas specified in each agreement are submitted by the Central Bank or the responsible public authority to the Ministry of Commerce on a monthly basis. Guarantee deposits for imports are payable in ad- vance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalized list I, 20 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payable,5 and for items on list II, 10 per cent; for im- ports under global quotas, 10 per cent of the value of the import application is payable for goods on import- ers' quotas, and 2.5 per cent for industrialists' quotas and export manufacturers.6 For imports under bilateral quotas the rate of guarantee deposit depends on the list on which the goods are included if imported f rom a nonagreement country, but a rate of 10 per cent is applied to quotas which are not included in industrial- ists' quotas to be fixed by the Ministry of Commerce for agreement countries and all of the quotas indicated in the listed import quotas for which there exists no control authority. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment. The public sector is exempt, how- ever, and in many cases industrialists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under investment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to convert- ible currency countries only), or 10 per cent (on imports under investment quotas in bilateral agreements). The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been cleared through customs and the foreign supplier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee de- 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY posits collected are transferred weekly to an account held by the Central Bank in the name of the authorized bank. Should imports not be made in conformity with the regulations, a part of the guarantee deposit corre- sponding to up to 10 per cent of the value of such imports is forfeited to the Treasury.7 Private compensation transactions are not permitted in any form, except that the Ministry of Commerce is authorized to conclude agreements to dispose of goods acquired through supporting purchases made by the State. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Cen- tral Bank, or the Ministry of Finance, under certain conditions. Travelers domiciled in Turkey may bring in for personal or professional (but noncommercial) use goods and machinery with a limit of LT 3,000, in addi- tion to personal effects. Separate limits and conditions apply to imports of goods for personal use, and of professional instruments and machines, by persons having resided abroad for employment or study; these limits and conditions vary with the stay abroad and with the transfer to Turkey of foreign exchange. Com- panies or cooperatives formed in Turkey by residents temporarily working abroad may import investment goods to the extent of the foreign exchange invested. In addition to personal effects, foreign tourists may im- port goods and machinery for their personal or family use. Foreign contractors may temporarily import ma- chinery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without re- questing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and may not be imported on a temporary basis under the relevant customs regula- tions. Foreign companies established in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments w i thout requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their opera- tions. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Import of an automobile8 without payment of for- eign exchange may be permitted by the Central Bank or the Ministry of Finance, provided that certain condi- tions are met relating to residence abroad and to remit- tance and sale to authorized banks in Turkey of foreign exchange. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish na- tionals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials, other than diplomats, may not sell to Turkish nationals any automobiles imported duty free under special agreements. Other foreign na- 478 tionals resident in Turkey may import automobiles un- der certain conditions, but they must be exported after three years; however, this three-year period may be extended, and the Ministry of Finance may also permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organizations. With these exceptions, auto- mobiles and any other commodities that have been imported du ty free may not be sold to residents. In addition to customs du ty, imported goods are subject to the following charges: (1) a customs sur- charge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty; (2) a stamp du ty of 9.0 per cent or 9.5 per cent of the declared value, depending on the type of commodity;9 (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs du ty, customs surcharge, stamp duty, and cus- toms clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax rang- ing generally from 10 per cent to 75 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, stamp duty, customs clearing expenses, and quay duty. The quay du ty is not payable on goods imported by air. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following purposes, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu- ments: payments related to trade (including shipping costs and expenditures connected with other freight charges), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, ad- vertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administra- tion and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and as- sembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transac- tions. The transfer of income related to foreign investments approved under the Law for the Encour- agement of Foreign Investment is permitted freely. In- terest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural nature) may be granted transferabil- ity between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals re- siding in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted, in effect, to four trips a person a year, except for travel to Cy- prus. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel (ex- cept for persons traveling on a collective passport) is up to the equivalent of US$800 a calendar year;10 travelers are not allowed to leave the country unless they are carrying at least the equivalent of US$200 in foreign exchange (US$110 for persons under 18 years of age and the purchase of this amount is not mandatory). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to less than US$200 on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the taxable income of the applicant firm. For exporting companies, the limit is related to their export proceeds. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in inter- national meetings, fairs, athletic meets, and so fo r th, and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical trea tment may pur- chase the necessary foreign exchange. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 100 in Turk- ish bankno tes and coins. Nonresidents may take out w i thout any restriction the unspent portion of the for- eign exchange which they b rought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into for- eign currency when leaving the coun t ry are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. All exports des- tined to bilateral countries,11 exports of a few commod- ities to any des t ina t ion ,12 re-exports irrespective of des t ina t ion, and tempo ra ry exports requ ire an export license in order to prevent re-exports and to assure adequate supplies for the domestic ma rke t. Commer- cial export prices must conform to the checklist of prices fixed at in te rva ls by the M in i s t ry of Commerce on the basis of prices ob ta in ing in domestic and fore ign markets. For th is purpose, exporters must app ly for price reg is tra t ion to a professional organ iza t ion desig- nated by the M in i s t ry of Commerce w i t h in f ive wo rk ing days (three wo rk ing days in the case of haze lnu ts) of a sale, toge ther w i th a s ta tement of income earned and income and corpora t ion taxes paid du r ing the last three years. The professional organization will not accept for registration app l ica t ions not con fo rm ing to the check- list of prices. When registering sales, due consideration is given to de l ivery time, q u a n t i t y, sales cond i t ions, the income earned by the exporter on his commercial activ- ities in the course of the last th ree years, and income and corporation taxes assessed du r ing the same period. For exports requiring a license, the price registration application is subm i t ted by the responsible au tho r i ty to the M in i s t ry of Commerce; approved price registration bills cons t i tu te export licenses. Exporters in the public sector may apply direct to the M in is try of Commerce for price reg is tra t ion and export licenses. In issuing licenses for exports to bilateral agreement countries, export quotas are fixed by the M in i s t ry. Expor ts must be started w i th in 30 to 360 days of reg is tra t ion, de- pending on the type of goods, sales contracts, and coun t ry of des t ina t ion. C ircu la t ion certificates for ex- ports to member countries of the EEC benefiting f rom preferen t ial customs and tax t rea tment are issued by the Customs Au tho r i ty. TURKEY Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three months from the date of export or within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. They are permitted to export a speci- fied list of commodities on 12-month credit terms, how- ever, against payment in convertible currency and subject to a bank guarantee. Forward sales may be made only when payment is to be received in convert- ible currencies; price conformity for forward sales is required at the time the export contract is concluded. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indi- rect taxes paid are refunded when manufactures or products are exported. There are basically four rates of re fund: 5, 10, 20, and 25 per cent of specified direct and indirect taxes. However, 10 percentage points more in tax refunds is granted to exporters who sell more than US$1.8 million of goods benefiting from a refund. Re- duced rates of re fund apply for certain goods when exported to bilateral payments agreement countries, and other goods exported to these countries do not qua l i fy for a tax re fund. In addition, varying provi- sional rates of re fund exist. The tax refund must not exceed the amount of indirect taxes and charges actu- ally paid. Other tax incentives include the exemption of export earnings f rom income and corporation taxes and the exemption of export goods from the production tax (for foreigners). Exporters of specified goods also have access to credit at preferential interest rates from a special export fund. Proceeds from In visibles Firms or ind iv idua ls not in the category of autho- rized ins t i tu t ions cannot accept more than the equiva- lent of US$100 f rom foreign tourists and are required to surrender any exchange earnings in the form of for- eign banknotes and travelers checks to an authorized bank w i th in ten days.* Otherwise, foreign exchange ac- c ru ing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered to an authorized ex- change dealer w i th in three mon ths f rom the date on wh ich the service was rendered or w i th in ten days f rom the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remittances from Turkish workers abroad are sold to the Central Bank at LT 10.3878 per U.S. dollar; when the Turkish l ira equ iva lent is credited to a bank account in Turkey, an additional amount of 33V3 per cent is immediately credited to the account representing three years' inter- est at 11 .11 per cent per annum resulting in an effective exchange rate of LT 13.850 per U.S. dollar. The amoun ts deposited plus the interest can be w i thd rawn at any time. Foreign travelers wishing to take out arti- cles w i th a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The impo rt of Turk ish banknotes and coins by trav- elers (whe ther of Turk ish or foreign na t iona l i ty) is lim- 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY ited to LT 100. The import of foreign currency by trav- elers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital trans- actions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire for- eign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the En- couragement of Foreign Investments (No. 6224) or the Petroleum Law (No. 6326, as amended), foreign com- panies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for in- vestment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is sub- ject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accor- dance with their equity capital in Turkey, but special facilities exist for borrowing from the "Blocked Curren- cies Fund" at the Central Bank. Blocked funds are those accrued or accruing to non- residents but not transferable under the existing ex- change control regulations. These include the sales proceeds of real estate situated in Turkey and owned by nonresident physical or juridical persons, insofar as the property is not covered by Law No. 6224 or Law No. 6326. Except for approved investments, nonresi- dents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 10,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property; and for living expenses of up to LT 9,000 a month for each benefi- ciary for owners of such funds or their authorized rep- resentatives, and up to LT 5,000 for certain relatives. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law for the Encouragement of For- eign Investments. A portion of 75 per cent of any holder's blocked funds can be transferred to the Blocked Currencies Fund at the Central Bank, from which nonresidents may receive credits for their partner companies' invest- 480 ment requirements in Turkey, provided the permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Dividends and profits derived from these credits have to be blocked again and are nontransferable. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and in- come related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agree- ment, except for investment in the export industries or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Invest- ments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, or will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise and will not entail monop- oly or special privilege. Under this law, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and resi- dents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Minis- try of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, however, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancellation of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (in- cluding those of an agricultural character) may be ac- corded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded addi- tional preferential treatment. By virtue of a policy state- ment of December 1971, Turkish participation in new foreign investments no longer is subject to a minimum of 51 per cent. In addition to investments under Law No. 6224, foreign investments outside the petroleum sector may be made "under the monetary regulations," in which case the investor does not enjoy any transfer facilities for earnings or liquidation proceeds. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresidents are permitted to open noninterest- bearing foreign exchange deposit accounts with Turk- ish banks. Nonresidents can no longer open or credit demand accounts in convertible Turkish liras, although existing balances can be maintained. The deadline for the termination of time deposits in convertible Turkish liras varies between July 2, 1973 and April 3, 1976, depending on the end-use of the counterpart domestic bank credit. However, time deposits with ma tur i ty dates going beyond 'the deadlines specified for the dif- ferent end-uses of the counterpart domestic bank credit are permitted to run their full term. No exchange guar- antee exists for demand deposits af ter April 3, 1973 and for time deposits after the original maturity date.13 The total amount of private and public sector bor- rowing abroad from private sources, including supplier credits, is determined in an annual program by the Ministry of Finance, which also specifies the eligible sectors and projects. The Ministry of Finance, after consultation with other ministries if appropriate, is au- thorized to approve such credits and to issue a guaran- tee of the transferability of the foreign exchange. It is up to the intermediating bank to guarantee the repay- ment in liras. Turkish borrowers pay that bank the prevailing domestic interest rate; the excess over the interest rate payable to the foreign lender, net of a banking commission, is credited to an "Interest Equal- ization Fund" established in the Central Bank. Regula- tions issued by the Ministry of Finance specify that, with certain exceptions, such credits must not amount to more than 60 per cent of the total cost of a project, their maturity must not be less than two years, and the rate of interest must not exceed the Euro-dollar rate (the London Interbank Offer Rate —LIBOR) by more than 1 per cent. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be pres- ented for minting by the State Mint. Imports of gold are free, provided that it is sold to the Central Bank. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1974 January L The Interim Agreement with the EEC of June 30, 1974 came into force. (The supplementary protocol to the Association Agreement between the EEC and Turkey, consequent on the accession of the United Kingdom, Ireland, and Denmark to the EEC, did not come into force until early 1975.) TURKEY January 3. The 1974 import program was published. Total imports in 1974 were programmed to be US$3,036 million, compared with US$1,600 million for 1973. This included US$1,250 million for liberalized goods, US$1,236 million for quota goods, and US$100 million for imports from bilateral agreement countries. A large number of commodities was transferred from the global quota list to the liberalized lists. The guaran- tee deposit for imports on liberalized list I was reduced from 25 per cent to 20 per cent, and the rate was reduced to 1 per cent for the importation of tires and tubes, iron and steel, and certain other items. The spe- cial regime for imports financed by the U.S. Agency for International Development was terminated. Imports from bilateral payments agreement countries hence- forth could be made on the basis of cash payment, provided that prior consent was obtained from both the Ministries of Commerce and Finance. An emergency quota of US$500 for each transaction was established for imports of goods urgently needed by the private sector. It was also announced that full import duty exemptions on investment imports would be phased out. All imports under the program could be made on a collection basis (payment against documents or pay- ment against goods); previously, letters of credit were prescribed for certain imports. February 28. The nominal exchange rate of LT 9.3333 = US$1 for sales of foreign exchange for travel purposes was abolished, as was the tax of 50 per cent on sales of exchange for travel. The tax of 50 per cent payable on the purchase against payment in Turk- ish liras of travel tickets also was abolished (Decree No. 7 /7872). April 1. The bilateral payments agreements with Bul- garia and Poland expired. May 14. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were changed from LT 14.000 and LT 14.301 to LT 13.50 buying, and LT 13.77 selling, per US$1, respectively. May 14. The nominal buying rate applicable to re- mittances made by Turkish workers abroad was changed from LT 10.50 to LT 10.1252 per US$1. The effective exchange rate for such remittances was changed from LT 14.00 to LT 13.50 per US$1. July 31. Communique No. 1 of the Ministry of Fi- nance regarding the methods and procedures for tax refunds on exports was issued. August 3. Resident physical and juridical persons were permitted to transfer to Turkey, in convertible currencies bought and sold by the Central Bank, any capital and income they had accumulated abroad that were not subject to compulsory repatriation. If the laws of the country where such assets were located prohib- ited their exportation in the form of foreign exchange, the Central Bank could allow instead the importation of goods on the liberalized list, up to US$50,000 for each holder of foreign assets. September 20. The official rates for the U.S. dollar were changed to LT 13.850 buying, and LT 14.127 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY selling, per US$1. The nominal rate applicable to remit- tances made by Turkish workers abroad was changed to LT 10.3878 per US$1, and the effective buying rate for such remittances became LT 13.850 per US$1. September 20. Authorized banks were allowed to open foreign exchange deposit accounts in the names of foreign nationals resident in Turkey and of Turkish nationals working abroad. Banks could pay interest on these accounts at rates corresponding to those ruling abroad. November 12. The bilateral payments agreement with Hungary expired. November 15. It was announced that the foreign ex- change allocation for Turkish tourists traveling on a collective passport could not exceed US$200 a person a year (US$100 for those under 18). December 12. The regulation governing short-term borrowing abroad for the purpose of financing exports was amended. Henceforth, such credits could be taken up only in foreign currencies sold or bought by the Central Bank, and the payment of interest was prohib- ited. If no exports took place within three months after the borrowing, the credits had to be repaid within the following month in the currency originally obtained. NOTES 1 Albania, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, and U.S.S.R. Pay- ments with Portugal are channeled through a special account, but Portugal is not considered a bilateral country. The bilat- eral payments agreement with the People's Republic of China expired on January 9, 1975. 2 Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. 3 Increased to six mon ths under the 1975 import program, see footnote 7. 4 When permitting imports of goods on the liberalized or quota lists from nonpayments agreement, non-OECD countries, the Ministry of Commerce takes the balance of trade and payments with these countries into account. 5 For fertilizers, ammonia, and breeding animals, the rate is 1 per cent. 6 A deposit of 50 per cent applies to items on list I and to items not on any list and not requiring a permit of the Minis- try of Commerce, when imported under the Transitional Agreement with the EEC; items included in list II and those requiring permission from the Ministry of Commerce when imported under that Agreement require a deposit of 20 per cent. 7 The 1975 import program was published on January 3, 1975. Total imports in 1975 were programmed to be US$4,000 million, compared with US$3,036 million for 1974. This included US$2,250 million for liberalized goods, US$1,225 million for quota goods, and US$100 million for imports from bilateral agreement countries. In addition, US$425 million was set aside for imports outside the import program. No major changes were introduced in import pro- cedures, and the deposit requirements also remained un- changed. The validity of import licenses was increased from five to six months. 8 Automobiles are not included in the import program. 9 The stamp du ty is 10 per cent for imports from countries that are not members of the GATT, and 100 per cent for imports made by special permission but not conforming to the provisions of the Customs Law, the Foreign Trade Re- gime, and similar legislation and regulations. 10 Reduced to the equivalent of US$600 a person a calen- dar year on March 24, 1975. 11 Exports of specified perishables to these countries are authorized by the customs offices; export licenses must be delivered to customs w i th in f ive days of export. 12 Cereals, certain minerals such as molybdenum, wolfram, and iron ore, articles made of precious metals or stones, vegetable oils, oilseeds, skins, fertilizers, cattle, meat, and timber. 13 With effect from February 19, 1975, authorized banks w i th deposits exceeding LT 2 billion were permitted to incur an overall foreign exchange position (in currencies purchased and sold by the Central Bank); this position could not be less than US$5 million and not more than US$25 million, but the positions to be maintained by individual banks were deter- mined by the Central Bank. Banks in this category could freely accept foreign currency deposits from nonresidents (in- cluding Turkish workers abroad) and lend the foreign ex- change to physical and juridical persons (including public sector agencies) in Turkey for use in importing capital goods and raw materials for investment purposes. 482 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.103133 gram of f ine gold per Uganda Shilling. A central rate of U Sh 7.14286 = US$1 has been established, and Uganda avails itself of wider margins. The Bank of Uganda does not deal in foreign currencies1 other than deutsche mark, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars; its rates for the U.S. dollar are based on the central rate, and its rates for deutsche mark and pounds sterling are based on the previous day's New York rates against the U.S. dollar. On De- cember 31, 1974, the Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were U Sh 7.1407 and U Sh 7.1471, respectively. Authorized commercial banks in Uganda deal in all specified currencies2 and base their rates on the previous day's closing rates against the U.S. dollar in New York, except for Kenya shillings and Tanzania shillings, which are dealt in at par. Authorized banks may freely deal forward w i th customers in sterling, U.S. dollars, and other currencies, provided that there is an underlying approved import or export contract and that the term of the fo rwa rd contract does not exceed three months; contracts for longer periods require ex- change control approval. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry and the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade under the External Trade Act (as amended) and by the Bank of Uganda. The Minister of Commerce and Indus t ry has powers to prohibit im- ports and exports. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East African currency area but exchange control is applied to both Kenya and Tanza- nia. Prescription of Currency Uganda has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory under the terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a coun try of the Overseas Sterling Area. All payments to Kenya and Tanzania must be effected in the currencies of those countries through accounts held with each other by the central banks concerned. Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya, Tanzania, and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries may be obtained in Uganda shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any convertible currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territories), or Rhodesia may be made to an External Account in any Sterling Area country, in Uganda shillings to the credit of an Exter- nal Account in Uganda, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian currency that is ap- propriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territories), or Rhodesia may be obtained in Uganda shillings from an External Account, in any Sterling Area specified currency from an External Account, or in any other specified currency that is not a Sterling Area currency. Payments to Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territo- ries), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Cer- tain settlements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Zaire are channeled through special accounts. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be credited freely with all authorized pay- ments to such Sterling Area countries by Ugandan resi- dents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, with transfers from External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Ugandan residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Ac- counts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country has been ob- tained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Uganda or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Uganda of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territories), or Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Uganda, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Israel, Portu- guese, or Rhodesian currency) and gold by nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that the permission of the appropriate ex- 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA change control authorities in a Sterling Area country has been obtained. External Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area cur- rencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of persons not resident in Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of government bonds so acquired are transferable begin- ning five years from the date of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transac- tions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, re- quire prior approval. All Blocked Accounts must be held with the Uganda Commercial Bank. Imports and Import Payments All permitted imports require approval by the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade. Monthly allocations of foreign exchange for private sector and public sector imports together are limited in principle to a total of U Sh 100 million. Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy; imports prohib- ited for other reasons include passenger automobiles, cotton fabrics, blankets, electrical home refrigerators, transistor radios, and matches. There is an open general license for monthly imports up to U Sh 4.5 million each of milk and wheat. Import license applications are screened by eight specified companies, which are super- vised by the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade. Upon approval of the application, the importer must lodge a commission of 1 per cent of the license amount with the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited and imports from Portuguese-controlled territories in Af- rica are not being licensed. Imports normally must be purchased direct from the country of origin. Some im- ports of manufactured goods from Kenya and Tanza- nia are subject to transfer taxes. Documentary evidence showing that the goods have been imported into Uganda must be forwarded to the exchange control authorities within six months from the date of payment. Payments for nonessential im- ports are normally made after arrival of the goods, but advance payment is permitted for essential goods. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries are subject to approval by the Bank of Uganda and those to Portugal (and its overseas territories), Rhodesia, and South Af- rica are prohibited. The basic allowance for travel out- side Uganda is the equivalent of U Sh 3,000 a person 484 every three years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The allowance is available for travel to any country except Kenya and Tanzania, for which nor- mally holiday facilities of up to U Sh 1,000 a person a year are available, and Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa, for which no allocation is granted. Sala- ried noncitizens recruited from outside East Africa may obtain allocations for travel outside East Africa at the time of their overseas leave. No foreign exchange is released for nursery, primary, and secondary education abroad except for children of diplomats, technical assistance personnel, nonnationals working in Uganda on overseas terms, nonnational missionaries, and other special cases. Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nationals may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 33Y3 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the con- tract. The export of Uganda banknotes and coins by travel- ers is prohibited, except that travelers to Kenya and Tanzania may take out U Sh 100 in Uganda currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses and may be restricted to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. All exports to Israel, South Africa, the Portuguese- controlled territories in Africa, and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. The Uganda Tea Board has a monopoly over the export of tea. Export proceeds in specified currencies2 must be col- lected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for conversion into Uganda shillings. Coffee, cotton, copper, and hides and skins are subject to export duty. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies2 must be sold to an authorized bank. The import of Uganda banknotes and coins by travelers is prohibited, except that returning Ugandan residents may bring in U Sh 100 a person. Travelers may freely bring in foreign currency notes and foreign currency travelers checks. Capital Capital transfers to all countries are restricted and those to Israel, Portugal (and its overseas territories), Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemptions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Capital transfers require individual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving permanently may normally transfer their assets up to the equivalent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of U Sh 50,000. The allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance premiums remitted after 1965 out- side the facilities for remittance of savings. A fur ther transfer of up to the equivalent of U Sh 20,000 upon each anniversary of the emigrant's departure is allowed. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may either be invested in certain ap- proved securities or held on deposit with commercial banks in Uganda; such funds become transferable after five years. The income from such investments is trans- ferable also during the period when the funds are blocked. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Uganda; to secure guaranteed repatriation, however, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East African Industrial Licensing Act and the Uganda Licensing Act, 1969. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents from normal trading operations and distributed by companies operating in Uganda are in principle transferable, All imports and exports of securities require ap- proval. Approval is freely granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Ugandan securities, provided that pay- ment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are normally remittable also. Purchases of securi- ties outside Uganda by residents are not normally per- mitted. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a g if t, to any coun try more than U Sh 100 a year without specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, prior exchange control ap- proval is required for loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resi- dent in Uganda which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident out- side Uganda. Gold A commemorative gold coin w i th a face value of U Sh 500 is legal tender but does not circulate. Resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in Uganda in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance. Export licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and UGANDA industrial users. The import of the following from all sources is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or platinum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, including set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets), gold jewelry, and gold coins are issued restrictively and only to goldsmiths. Changes during 1974 January 14. The central rate was changed from U Sh 6.90000 = US$1 to U Sh 7.14286 = US$1. Uganda continued to avail itself of wider margins. The relationship to the Kenya shilling and the Tanzania shilling remained unchanged. New buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were set at U Sh 7.1407 and U Sh 7.1471, respectively, per US$1. March 27. The Uganda Tea Board was established. It was given a monopoly over the export and sale abroad of tea grown or manufactured in Uganda. April 2. The Bank of Uganda substantially reduced the amount of foreign exchange that commercial banks were permitted to hold as working balances. Excess amounts had to be transferred to the Bank of Uganda. April 22. The Uganda Advisory Board of Trade De- cree, 1974 abolished the State Trading Corporation and established the Uganda Advisory Board of Trade, whose func t ions included the supervision and coordi- nation of the activities of eight specified companies. Private importers were henceforth required to apply through one of the eight specified companies for their licenses and foreign exchange allocations. April 22. The External Trade Act (Amendment) De- cree, 1974 provided that, notwithstanding the repeal of the State Trading Corporation Decree, 1972, any statu- tory order made under section 2 of that decree and in force immediately prior to the repeal would remain in force until revoked. June 13. An export du ty on copper was reintro- duced. September 2. The basic exchange allowance for travel within East Africa was increased from U Sh 500 to U Sh 1,000, and that for travel outside East Africa from U Sh 2,000 to U Sh 3,000. November 2. Remittances of prof i ts and dividends to nonresidents henceforth could only be made in respect of a completed trading year. NOTES 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area curren- cies other than the Uganda shilling. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB EMIRATES l (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On February 23, 1974, the United Arab Emirates established an initial par value of 0.186621 gram of fine gold per U.A.E. Dirham, corresponding at the time to Dh 1 = SDR 0.21. The United Arab Emirates avails itself of wider margins. The United Arab Emirates Cur- rency Board establishes daily quotations for the Bel- gian franc, the deutsche mark, the French franc, the Lebanese pound, the pound sterling, the Swiss franc, and the U.S. dollar. The rate of exchange for the U.S. dollar against the dirham is fixed daily at the discretion of the Board within the limits of the wider margins. Rates for other currencies are fixed in relation to the U.S. do l lar /d irham rate and the previous day's closing rates in New York. The Board deals with commercial banks, rulers of states, governments, and quasigovern- ment institutions. On December 31, 1974 the Board's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were Dh 3.978 and Dh 3.983, respectively, per US$1. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement on February 13, 1974. Administration of Control There is neither exchange control legislation nor an exchange control authority in the United Arab Emi- rates, and there are no registration requirements for inward or outward transfers. The United Arab Emi- rates has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the authorities of the Emirate concerned. Prescription of Currency All settlements with Israel are prohibited. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited, as are imports of products manufactured by foreign companies black- listed by the Arab League. Imports of a few commodi- ties are prohibited from all sources for moral, health, or security reasons. Virtually all other commodities may be freely imported without an individual import permit, but only licensed parties can enter the import trade and each importer can import only the commodity or com- modities specified in his license. In Abu Dhabi, certain 486 commodities (mainly rice, sugar, and flour) are im- ported by the state trading company, which, however, does not have an import monopoly in any commodity. There are no restrictions on the availability of foreign exchange for payments in respect of permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for current invisibles may be made freely, except to Israel. Travelers may take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. Virtually all com- modities may be exported freely, without an export license, to any other destination. Each Emirate estab- lishes its own export regulations. There are no require- ments attached to receipts from exports or re-exports; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to receipts from current invisibles. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresi- dents. Transactions and settlements involving Israel, however, are prohibited. Profits on foreign capital in- vested in the United Arab Emirates may be remitted freely. Gold With the exception noted below, residents and non- residents, including private persons, may freely pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, without an individual import or export permit, import and export gold in any form, but the import of gold for trade, like that of any other commodity, may only be undertaken by licensed parties. Transactions involving Israel or companies blacklisted by the Arab League are prohibited. Gold bullion is exempt from import duty but jewelry is not. Changes during 1974 February 12. The Currency Board instructed com- mercial banks to limit the spread between buying and selling rates for all currencies to no more than 2 per cent. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 13. The United Arab Emirates formally accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. February 23. The United Arab Emirates established an initial par value of 0.186621 gram of fine gold per U.A.E. dirham, corresponding at the time to Dh 1 = SDR 0.21, and availed itself of wider margins. The gold content of the dirham remained unchanged. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar also re- mained unchanged, at Dh 3.94737 = US$1. March 19. The embargo on petroleum exports from Abu Dhabi and Dubai to the United States was lifted. July 10. The embargo on petroleum exports from UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Abu Dhabi and Dubai to the Netherlands was lifted. September 25. The Currency Board issued regula- tions for the conduct of banking business in the United Arab Emirates. They included maximum interest rates which could be paid on deposits and m in imum spreads on foreign exchange rates to the public on currencies quoted by the Board. NOTE 1 The seven federated states of the United Arab Emirates are Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, A jman, Umm al Qaiwan, Ras a l -Kha imah, and Fujairah. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Pound Sterling. Since June 23, 1972, the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the pound within announced margins, and therefore all transac- tions in the official exchange market, except those in currencies maintaining a fixed relationship with ster- ling, take place at a f luc tua t ing exchange rate. The closing selling and buying rates in the foreign exchange market for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1974 were US$2.3490 and US$2.3500 per £1, respectively. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies, ex- cept Rhodesian currency, subject to the observance of limits on open positions and the accumulation of spot foreign exchange. Forward rates may fluctuate under the influence of market forces; transactions with resi- dent customers may be entered in to only for approved purposes, where there is an underlying commercial con- tract (or where an exporter is tendering for an overseas export contract), and in the currency of the contract. There is also a market (referred to as the investment currency market) in which certain foreign currency pro- ceeds,1 resulting mainly from the sale outside the Scheduled Territories (the United Kingdom, the Chan- nel Islands, the Isle of Man, the Republic of Ireland,2 and Gibraltar) of foreign currency securities,3 and of most personal residential property situated outside the Scheduled Territories may be negotiated at freely deter- mined rates, usually attracting a premium over the offi- cial market rate; at the end of 1974, that premium was about 69Y2 per cent calculated at the ruling U.S. dollar rate in the official exchange market, the middle closing rate on December 31 being £1 = US$1.3807. These funds are normally available for reinvestment in mar- ketable foreign currency securities, for approved pur- chases of personal residential property in countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, and, although little used for this purpose, for approved direct investments in non-Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins (other than Rhodesian currency) at free mar- ket rates of exchange. The United Kingdom formally accepted the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory In general, the United Kingdom does not impose restrictions on exchange transactions or payments and receipts between residents of the United Kingdom and residents of the Scheduled Territories. Exchange con- 488 trol applies mainly to transactions with residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories. The non-Scheduled Territories for administrative purposes are divided as follows: (1) the other member countries of the EEC, except the Republic of Ireland; (2) the Overseas Sterling Area (OSA), i.e., the countries other than the Republic of Ireland and Gibraltar which as at June 22, 1972 were treated as Scheduled Territories;4 (3) Rhodesia; and (4) all other countries, usually re- ferred to as the Rest of the Non-Scheduled Territories (RNST). Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is adminis- tered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most current payments re- quiring exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Department of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts from Scheduled Territories may be in ster- ling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; those from other countries, with the exception of Rhodesia, must be in sterling from an External Account or in any for- eign currency (other than Rhodesian currency), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless permission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Payments to Scheduled Territories may be made in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency; payments to other countries, with the excep- tion of Rhodesia, may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency except Rhodesian currency. For security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally prescribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. However, unless spe- cifically included among the permitted debits to Rho- desian Accounts, all commercial payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account; authorized payments for exports from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia must be received in advance of shipment in a foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency, or, with the specific approval of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Persons normally resident in Rhode- sia who are living temporarily in the United Kingdom ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United Kingdom; debits to such accounts are generally permitted only for living expenses within the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other Scheduled Territories are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers between Scheduled Territories no U.K. exchange con- trol permission is required; for payments to other countries by residents of any Scheduled Territory, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the pay- ment has the approval of the exchange control au thor- ity in the territory concerned. External Accounts. W i th the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see be- low), the s ter l ing accounts of nonresidents w i th autho- rized banks in the United Kingdom, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Scheduled Territories, w i th t rans fe rs f rom other Exter- nal Accounts, w i th the proceeds f rom sales of gold or foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency (in- cluding banknotes), and w i th sterling banknotes mailed f rom outside the Scheduled Territories. Ex ternal Ac- counts may be debited, subject to general or special permission, for paymen ts to residents of the Scheduled Territories, for transfers to other Ex ternal Accounts, for t rans fe rs to Rhodesian Accounts other than in pay- ment for certain goods exported f rom Rhodesia, for payments in cash in the United Kingdom, and for pur- chases of any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian currency ( inc lud ing bankno tes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include t rans fe rs f rom External Accounts, provided that the bank has no reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Southern Rhodesia (United Na t ions Sanctions) (No. 2) Order 1968; pay- men ts by residents of Scheduled Territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control au tho r i ty in the terr i tory concerned; and paymen ts by U .K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian currency, (2) the dis- count or ma tu r i ty proceeds of U.K. treasury bills, (3) permitted imports f rom Rhodesia which have entered customs in the Un i ted K ingdom, (4) insurance and f re ight charges resulting f rom permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Scheduled Terr i tory, (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade, (6) pen- sions and widows' annu i t ies where associated w i th the deceased husband's employment, (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks registered in Rhodesia, Zambia, or Malawi, (8) m a tu r i ty proceeds UNITED KINGDOM of certain endowment insurance policies, and (9) expen- diture in gathering news material. Permitted debits include transfers to the Rhodesian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annuities; payments for living expenses in the United Kingdom of persons resident in Rhodesia and their families; authorized purchases of U.K. sterling securi- ties to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United Kingdom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories for (1) interest on and repayment of out- standing personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, de- signs, trademarks, and royalties, (3) distributions from Rhodesian estates and trusts, and (4) subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U .K. residents for (a) expenses arising out of property in the United Kingdom owned on or before Novem- ber 11 ,1965, (b) taxes, (c) educational fees and inciden- tal expenses, (d) insurance premiums and capital and annu i ty payments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) gifts and maintenance not exceeding £250 for any one pay- ment, to individuals and religious, medical, educa- tional, and charitable organizations, and subscriptions to such organizations, (g) contributions to pension funds provided the person was a member of the fund before November 11, 1965 or before taking up resi- dence in Rhodesia a f ter that date, and (h) bank and safe custody charges. Transfers between Rhodesian Ac- counts and from Rhodesian Accounts to External Ac- counts are not norma l ly allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rho- desian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Account, payments to persons resident in Rhodesia must be w i thhe ld unless the Bank of England directs otherwise; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except w i th specific permission, may only be (1) used to meet U .K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, or (2) placed on deposit w i th banks or other f inanc ial ins t i tu t ions in the name of the U .K. resident by whom they are held. Permission is norma l ly given for residents of Rhodesia to use Sus- pense Account monies to purchase U.K. sterling securi- ties on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom and to purchase U.K. treasury bills and sav- ings bonds and certificates. Permission is only given for them to purchase Rhodesian or foreign currency securi- ties, however, when the funds for the purchase are de- rived from the immediate sale proceeds of other Rhodesian or foreign currency securities, respec- t ive ly .5 The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office s ta ff in Lon- don and ma in ta ined w i th the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Scheduled Territories and the OSA, and pensions due f rom Rhodesia to resi- dents of the Un i ted Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM and most parts of the OSA are normally settled through this account. Corresponding transfers from Rhodesian Accounts in the names of individuals to the Rhodesian Special Account are freely permitted. Per- mission is not normally given for payments of any other nature to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Ac- count. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of En- gland, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet educational payments in the United Kingdom, the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia from the Scheduled Territories and the OSA, and of services provided by residents of the Scheduled Territories and the OSA for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes countries outside the United Kingdom other than Rhodesia6 are divided into eight groups: the Mediterranean Area,7 the Non-Com- mun i ty Area,8 the Non-CEFTA Area,9 the Dollar Area,10 Japan,11 Romania, the Eastern Area,12 and all other countries. Imports from countries other than Rhodesia are ad- mitted under an Open General Import License without restriction, with the following exceptions: (1) from all other countries, seven commodities or groups of com- modities;13'14 (2) from the Dollar Area only, four com- modities or groups of commodities; (3) from Japan only, certain textiles; (4) from the Non-CEFTA Area only, one commodity; (5) from the Non-Community Area only, one commodity; (6) from Romania only, two commodities; and (7) from the Eastern Area only, nine commodities or groups of commodities. Most arti- cles subject to import licensing can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. A few articles may be imported under open individual licenses, i.e., without limit as to quan t i ty or value. Im- ports of cereals and cereal products, beef and veal, mu t ton and lamb, poultry meat, and dairy products other than butter and cheese are subject to minimum import prices enforced through autonomously imposed variable import levies. Imports of many other agricul- tural, horticultural, and livestock products are subject to EEC regulations. Once licensing requirements have been met to import from countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General Import License or some other form of license, U.K. residents may purchase foreign currency or credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is submitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of pay- ment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England where the payment is considered necessary or in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essential. Current administrative practice is not to allow advance payments for consumer goods. Ex- 490 change control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Scheduled Territories; neither are they required for payments to residents of other countries, unless the payment represents part or final settlement for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds £5,000, and evidence of importation cannot be pres- ented to the bank before making the remittance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sched- uled Territories may be made freely. Payments to resi- dents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories require exchange control authorization, which (except for payments to residents of Rhodesia)15 is granted freely for all purposes other than sterling usance credits to finance trade directly between principals resident in non-Scheduled Territories outside the OSA, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The comple- tion of an exchange control form is required for pay- ments exceeding £1,000 or its equivalent. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for trans- fers on account of many categories of current invisibles without any limitation, and for other categories up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unauthorized capital out- flow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against payment in sterling from an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. For any type of travel outside the Scheduled Territo- ries (except to Rhodesia), U.K. residents can obtain on demand from banks and authorized travel agents for- eign exchange up to the equivalent of £300 a person a trip; for travel for business or professional reasons, an allowance of £40 a day up to a maximum of £2,000 for any one journey can be authorized by banks and certain authorized travel agents. Applications for additional amounts are approved by the Bank of England unless there is reason to suspect that the exchange is to be used for purposes other than genuine travel expenditure. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., can be paid for without limit in the United Kingdom. Travel exchange purchased in the United Kingdom must normally be recorded in the traveler's passport. Under arrange- ments agreed with certain banks, personal checks may be cashed abroad for travel purposes, up to £30 a check, if backed by check cards. Credit cards may be used freely to settle travel expenses. Resident travelers may take out up to £300 in foreign currency notes. Any unused travel exchange expressed in foreign currency may be retained for a period of one month from the date of return to the United Kingdom. Banks have authority to approve applications by U.K. residents who wish to open foreign currency accounts outside the Scheduled Territories for the receipt of travel funds for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution use du r ing the ir stay abroad. Travel facilities expressed in sterling may be held for six mon ths from the date of issue or for one mon th from the date of re turn to the Un i ted K ingdom, if la ter. In add i t ion, resident trave l- ers may take w i th them up to £25 in U .K. and o ther Scheduled Terr i tory bankno tes, which may be ex- changed or spent abroad only for travel expenditure; but those t rave l ing direct to the Repub l ic of Ire land, the Channel Islands, or the Isle of Man may take out any amoun t. Visitors to the Un i ted K ingdom are, in add i t ion, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in w i th them, other than notes in excess of £25 expressed in the currencies of the Un i ted K ingdom or the Repub l ic of Ire land. Authorized banks are perm i t ted to approve, w i th in certain l im i ts and subject to the submission of appro- priate documen ta ry evidence of the amoun ts due, appli- ca t ions to pay fees, accommodation charges, and all inc iden tal expenses arising f rom the educa t ion of U .K. residents outside the Scheduled Territories. Special regulations app ly to all travel to Rhodesia. For approved o f f ic ial and essential business jou rneys the Bank of England will au tho r ize the issue of fore ign currency at a rate of up to £10 a day w i th a max imum of £300. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are normally issued only for the permitted exceptions (medical and educational supplies, food- s t u f fs where these are special medical preparations, news f i lm and pho tographs, and documen tary and printed ma t ter less than 100 years old) and for equip- ment for the essential replacement needs of the Rhode- sian Ra i lways and the Central African Power Corporation. V i r tua l ly all exports to other des t ina t ions are free of export control and no exchange control forms are normally required. Exporters to countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia must norma l ly obtain appropriate payment w i th in six mon ths of sh ipmen t; special exchange control permis- sion to collect at a later date is required only where the exporter extends credit for more than six mon ths w i th- out cover f rom the Export Credits Guarantee Depart- ment (ECGD). Receipts in foreign currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless the recipi- ent has obtained specific permission to credit them to a retained currency account (subject to supervision) or permission has been given for them to be used for some other purpose. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency or, if specific permission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling f rom the Rhodesian Special Account. UNITED KINGDOM Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in foreign currencies on account of invisi- bles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank, unless recipients of such currencies have permission to credit them to a retained currency account or to use them for some other purpose. British and other bank- notes may be brought in to the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive for- eign currency other than Rhodesian currency from cer- ta in capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities and the sale of personal residential proper ty situated outside the Scheduled Territories) may, in certain circumstances and w i th permission, use the exchange (which is re- garded as inves tment currency once permission has been given) for the purchase of marketable foreign cur- rency securities, the purchase of personal residential property outside the Scheduled Territories, or the mak- ing of approved direct inves tmen ts outside the Sched- uled Territories; they may also sell the exchange for s ter l ing to other residents to be used for the same pur- poses. If permission is not forthcoming, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United K ingdom. If permission is gran ted, however, the equiv- alent in foreign currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must normally be sold to an authorized bank for ster- l ing at the off ic ial ma rket rate of exchange.16'17 In cer- ta in circumstances, residents of the United Kingdom who have obtained exemption from their obligations under the Exchange Control Act in respect of assets denominated in any foreign currency other than Rho- desian currency may obtain permission for the sale pro- ceeds of exempted securities to be sold for sterling in the inves tment currency market up to 75 per cent of the amount concerned.18 In certain circumstances, ex- empted cash balances arising f rom the sale of property may also be sold as inves tment currency. There are no restrictions on capital transfers by resi- dents of the United Kingdom into the beneficial owner- ship of residents of other Scheduled Territories. All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Scheduled Territories require approval. Each indi- vidual resident of the United Kingdom may, from his own resources, make cash gifts or personal loans not exceeding a total of £1,000, or the equ iva lent in foreign currency, du r ing each calendar year to residents of the OSA, as well as a fu r th er £300 or the equivalent to residents of other countries outside the Scheduled Ter- ritories except Rhodesia; additional amoun ts may be allowed under appropriate circumstances. The cash g i f ts allowance is noncumu la t ive and is not transferab le from one resident to another. A resident of the United Kingdom w i th dependents who are established resi- dents of countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia may make payments from his own 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM resources not exceeding £2,000 a year to support those dependents. Such payments, which may be gifts or loans, are outside the cash gift scheme and do not prejudice the normal cash gift allowances. For security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means, except to relatives, or other Rhodesian residents where humanitarian reasons are given, to the extent of £75 during any period of two years. For direct investments in non-Scheduled Territories, official exchange is normally made available only for certain projects directly concerned with promoting ex- ports of goods and services where the prospective bene- fit to the U.K. balance of payments is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the investment within 18 months and to continue thereafter; this benefit will normally occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise from profits and other foreign cur- rency receipts that would not take place without the investment. For such projects ("super-criterion" projects), official exchange may be made available up to £250,000 or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of investment cur- rency, the export free of payment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade forming an integral part of the in- vestment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresi- dents on appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U.K. parent company, by approved profit reten- tion, or with foreign currency proceeds of disinvest- ment in the context of a group reorganization. Direct investment other than for super-criterion projects is considered on the basis that its capital cost should not fall directly upon the U.K. official foreign exchange reserves at least un t il an equivalent amount has been received in the United Kingdom by way of benefits arising from the investments; such investments can normally be financed by foreign currency borrow- ing, the use of investment currency, the export free of payment of capital equipment and stock-in-trade form- ing an integral part of the investment, by the issue or transfer of shares to nonresidents on appropriate terms, by the capitalization of an overseas subsidiary's current account indebtedness to the U.K. parent company, by approved profit retention, or w i th foreign currency pro- ceeds of disinvestment in the context of a group reorga- nization. The permitted proportion of retained foreign currency earnings normally is one third of net earnings after taxes, applied, if desired, on a global basis where more than one subsidiary is involved. The purchase outside the Scheduled Territories of marketable foreign currency securities for portfolio in- vestment must be financed either w i th investment cur- rency or with foreign currency borrowing. Such borrowing is freely permitted when undertaken by or through U.K. professional security managers, and the resale of foreign currency securities acquired in this 492 manner is exempt from the "25 per cent requirement" until the loan portfolio is liquidated and the profit repa- triated. Purchases of marketable foreign currency secu- rities with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositories. Pur- chases from other residents may also be effected with sterling on The Stock Exchange (sterling prices reflect the prevailing investment currency premium). The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or an apartment for personal use in countries outside the Scheduled Territories requires specific approval and must be made either from another Scheduled Territory resident for sterling or another Scheduled Territory currency, or from a nonresident of the Scheduled Terri- tories with investment currency or borrowed foreign currency; payment for attendant expenses and im- provements, but not maintenance, must also be made with investment currency. (As an exception to this rule, residents temporarily employed in the OSA or member countries of the EEC may be authorized to purchase necessary accommodation at current official market rates of exchange.) Approval is normally limited to one property a family; purchases of investment currency are normally limited to reasonable amounts and may be made before exchange control approval is received pro- vided that the funds are held by an authorized deposi- tory and that a formal application is lodged to purchase the property w i th in six months. The approval authority for amounts up to £30,000 for a residential property has been delegated to authorized banks. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or ma tur i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct in- vestments) owned by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories other than residents of Rhodesia are remit- table at the official rate of exchange. Payments to non- resident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased residents; capital payments under life and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance com- panies are also authorized freely. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Scheduled Territories and apply to transfer their assets are, on their departure from the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non-Sched- uled Territory nationals or citizens, other than Rhode- sians, who having been resident in the United Kingdom return to take up residence in any country outside the Scheduled Territories) may normally transfer all their sterling assets abroad at the official rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Scheduled Territories and the OSA except Rhodesia are allowed on departure to transfer for a fam i ly unit up to £5,000 through the official foreign exchange market (£20,000 for older per- sons) and may export any foreign currency securities ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution they hold; the remaining declared assets in excess of £5,000 are restricted for a fou r -year period from the date of the depar t ing person's redesignation as a non- resident. U .K. residents tak ing up residence and em- p loyment in member countries of the EEC, however, may, w i th specific approva l, t rans fer sterling assets at the official ra te of exchange in excess of the £5,000 limit where this is necessary in order to ensure their freedom to take up the employment in question. For emigration to the OSA, the basic settling-in al- lowance is £20,000 (with a similar concession for those tak ing up emp loymen t), also available at the off ic ial rate of exchange, and holdings of foreign currency secu- rities are exportable. During the fou r -year period the restricted funds may be disposed of for foreign curren- cies other than Rhodesian currency th rough the invest- ment currency marke t, or may be invested in sterling securities which are quoted on The Stock Exchange, the income the re f rom being f ree ly remittable th rough the off ic ial exchange marke t. A f t er the fou r -year period any rema in ing assets are transferab le in accordance w i th the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident; at present, the t rans fer at the off ic ial ra te of exchange is norma l ly allowed. The par t ic ipa t ion of fore ign capital as a direct invest- ment in the Un i ted K ingdom is subject to ind iv idual au thor iza t ion, wh ich is norma l ly granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved manner of payment (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above) or by the impo rt of goods and services; the fore ign currency received must be surren- dered at rates ru l ing in the off ic ial market unless per- mission has been given for the funds to be used for some other purpose. Cases invo lv ing the take-over of existing companies that by the ir size or na tu re cons t i tu te a vital part of British indu s t ry are considered on the ir merits. Permissions given for direct inves tmen ts in the Un i ted K ingdom by nonresidents are norma l ly, unless other- wise agreed w i th the Bank of England, conditional on the consideration being paid in sterling f rom an Exter- nal Account or in fore ign currency (other than Rhode- sian currency) and, where nonresidents (other than residents of the EEC and the OSA) have a controlling interest, on any subsequent f inance being provided in fore ign currency or External Account s ter l ing at least in propor t ion to the nonresident interest in the equ i ty of the company. The acquisition in any manner by any person not resident in the Un i ted Kingdom of 10 per cent or more of the ou ts tand ing shares of a company registered in the Un i ted Kingdom requires prior ex- change control approva l. Foreign f irms and foreign ind iv idua ls must obtain permission f rom the Treasury in order to raise capital in the United K ingdom, and U .K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain consent before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. U .K. residents also need permission to lend to U.K. companies controlled by nonresidents. Such permission is normally given for sterling lending for the purpose of UNITED KINGDOM f inanc ing the company's day-to-day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of manufac tur ing capacity except for companies whose activities are re- garded as bringing special advantages to the U.K. economy. There are three impo r tant exceptions to these principles: (1) Unlimited sterling finance in the United Kingdom is normally allowed to U.K. companies in which any nonresidents have less than a controlling interest, except to companies which are purely vehicles for portfolio inves tmen t. (2) U.K. companies con- trolled by residents of the EEC or the OSA that are not pure ly vehicles for po r t fo l io inves tment are norma l ly allowed unlimited sterling finance for their operations anywhere in the United Kingdom. (3) U .K. companies controlled by residents of any non-EEC coun try out- side both the Scheduled Territories and the OSA are upon application allowed similar facilities in respect of new expenditure in the areas of the United K ingdom which qua l i fy for special government assistance (the assisted areas), while their requests in respect of new expend i ture in other areas of the Un i ted Kingdom are considered on their merits. U .K. banks are proh ib i ted f rom prov id ing sterling loans or ove rd ra f ts to persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories and the OSA for the purpose of f inanc ing trade between non-Scheduled Territories, but sterling lend ing to residents of the OSA to f inance trade w i th such non-Scheduled Territories is unrestricted. Borrow ing by U .K. residents f rom nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories to f inance expenditure in the Un i ted Kingdom is subject to restriction. Private sector U .K. residents other than authorized banks normally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency f rom non- residents of the Scheduled Territories for conversion in to sterling for use in the United Kingdom, or to f inance current paymen ts to nonresidents of the Sched- uled Territories, unless the term of the borrow ing is at least two years (f ive years in the case of borrow ing for personal consumption, p rope r ty development, or f in an- cial transactions); exporters, merchants, and certain commodity traders are, however, permitted to borrow foreign currency for shorter periods f rom authorized banks or f rom nonresidents to f inance the ir sales or in some cases stock holdings. Public sector bodies nor- mally are not permitted to borrow foreign currency unless the term of the foreign borrowing is at least f ive years. Authorized banks must not lend foreign cur- rency to U .K. residents other than authorized banks for any other purpose w i thout prior reference to the Bank of England. U .K. companies normally are not permit- ted to borrow External Account sterling f rom nonresi- dents of the Scheduled Territories unless the term of the borrow ing is at least two years. Under certain permissions delegated to authorized depositories, transactions in securities of most types may generally be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions in Rho- desian securities may only be effected on The Stock Exchange. Residents are normally permitted, subject 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Scheduled Territories, and, after 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment cur- rency) in marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such invest- ments or for certain approved direct investment outside the Scheduled Territories. When foreign currency secu- rities are sold on The Stock Exchange for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment currency market for resale to an au- thorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers making a "book" may on appli- cation be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement in respect of transactions on the "book." Investment cur- rency held for a continuous period of 6 months nor- mally ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the form of foreign currency (other than Rhodesian currency) equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of the 6-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the cur- rent market rate in the official foreign exchange market. Investment currency may normally be retained as in- vestment currency for a maximum of 12 months, after which period any amount remaining must be offered for sale to an authorized bank at the current market rate in the official foreign exchange market.19 Professional security managers acting on their own behalf and for clients are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency for the purpose of making portfolio investments in marketable foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, w i th permission, arrange day-to-day bor- rowing of foreign currency, whether from U.K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign currency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other Scheduled Territories are not pre- vented by the U.K. regulations from buying and selling sterling securities in the United Kingdom; they may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhode- sian securities on The Stock Exchange, but they must obtain the permission of the U.K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United Kingdom in which a nonresident of the Scheduled Territories is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U.K. companies may issue sterling securities (including bearer securities) under a general permission given by the U.K. authorities. Nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories except Rhodesian residents may buy sterling securities on The Stock Exchange against payment in foreign currency or in sterling from an External Account. Securities so pur- chased may be exported from the United Kingdom. 494 Foreign currency securities may be bought and sold by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories on The Stock Exchange for settlement in foreign currency or, in cer- tain circumstances, for settlement in sterling excluding the investment currency premium. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United King- dom other than on The Stock Exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresi- dents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom for sterling which may be held on External Account or, alternatively, may be transferred abroad at official market rates. All trans- actions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England.20 Except in respect of U.K. companies controlled by nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories (where Bank of England consent is required), warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of capital payments on matured securities regis- tered in the names of nonresidents other than Rhode- sian residents may be dispatched freely to addresses outside the Scheduled Territories. These warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Authorized banks may freely accept foreign currency deposits and employ them in their foreign currency business. They may also switch such deposits into ster- ling on a covered basis. Individual ceilings are set on each bank's overall open position in foreign currencies and on the amount of spot assets which may be held against forward liabilities in foreign currencies. The Bank of England has authority to call for differential Special Deposits against increases in overseas sterling liabilities, but this authority has not so far been in- voked. Gold21 Residents of the United Kingdom may freely buy, hold, sell, borrow, or lend domestic and foreign gold coins. With this exception, residents of the United Kingdom other than the monetary authorities and au- thorized industrial and professional users are not per- mitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, whether at home or abroad, unless they are specifically or generally permitted to do so. Permis- sion is granted restrictively and is generally limited to established genuine domestic requirements for indus- trial and professional purposes (including the manufac- ture of gold medals, medallions, etc.). The Mint from time to time strikes gold sovereigns. Although legal tender, these do not circulate in the United Kingdom. Gold coins which are legal tender have also been issued in Jersey and the Isle of Man. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or which, having been current there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The import by any resident of the Un i ted Kingdom of gold bullion, gold coins, and gold medals, medal- lions, tablets, or other pieces in pictorial relief or bear- ing inscriptions is on Open General Impo rt License, f rom all sources except Rhodesia, but the ho ld ing of, or dealing w i th, bullion is subject to restrictions, as stated above. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. Au- tho r i ty has been given to authorized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non-Scheduled Territory resi- dent in the London gold market against payment in External Account sterling or foreign currency. A li- cense is required f rom the Department of Trade for the export of gold (and other) jewe l ry, etc., con ta in ing diamonds. The export of gold in manu fac tu red form over 100 years old and valued at £4,000 and over also requires a license from the Department of Trade. Manu fac tu res of gold may be impor ted w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction under Open General Impo rt Li- cense f rom all sources except Rhodesia. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are f ree ly traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, (2) any nonresidents of the Scheduled Territories, and (3) residents of the OSA who are sellers of new production. The U .K. authorities do not in tervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of Y4 of 1 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. Authorized banks may enter in to fo rw a rd transactions in gold w i thout prior permission f rom the Bank of Eng land. Banks may also f inance purchases of gold by nonres iden ts of the Scheduled Territories by lending foreign exchange and accept gold as collateral for advances in fore ign currencies or Exter- nal Account s ter l ing to nonres iden ts of the Scheduled Territories. Changes during 1974 January 1. The second reduction of 20 per cent in impo rt du t ies on goods or ig ina t ing in EEC member countries took e f fec t. This was accompanied by the f i r st 20 per cent reduction in duties on ho r t icu l tu ral prod- ucts of EEC origin. In add i t ion, there was a f i r st move toward the adop t ion of the common EEC ta r i ff on impor ts f rom non-EEC countries, and, except in two respects, the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) of the EEC superseded that of the Un i ted Kingdom. Tar iffs on impor ts f rom the developed member countries of the Commonwea l th were raised, but ta r i ff preferences for other Commonwealth countries re- mained unchanged, the rates of du ty being maintained where they were lower than the t rans i t ional rates. Tar- i f fs on processed food s tu f fs f rom other developed countries were increased. Textiles f rom developing countries outside the Commonwealth were exempted f rom customs duties under the EEC's GSP scheme. January 1. A large increase in the import quota for Cuban cigars came in to effec t. The quo ta for cigars of UNITED KINGDOM Dollar Area origin also was increased, in accordance with the timetable agreed w i th the United States in July 1973 for the phasing out of the U.K.'s Dollar Area quo ta restrictions. January L A modification was made to the scheme for export f inance provided by the clearing banks for periods of two years and over and guaranteed by the ECGD. The single fixed rate, which had stood at 6 per cent since March 1972, was abolished and replaced by a two-tier system. Business transacted on credit terms of two to f ive years would carry a fixed rate of 7 per cent, but for over f ive years there would be a range of rates from 6 per cent to 8V2 per cent, w i th a specific rate w i th in that range being fixed by the ECGD for each contract. In accordance w i th international commit- ments, the rate for shipbuilding (including exports of ships) would remain at 7 per cent, regardless of the length of the credit. January 10. Exports of cocoa and cocoa products to all destinations were brought under specific license. January 17. A supplementary quota was established for imports of bananas from the Dollar Area. Further increases were announced on Janua ry 31, October 3, and October 24. February L Exports of petroleum oils and products in ind iv idual consignments of less than 100 tons, and exports of lubr ica t ing oils, were placed on Open Gen- eral License. February 18. As a result of the effects of a miners' strike, exports of coal and steel products were brought under licensing control, irrespective of destination. It was announced that licenses for these exports would be issued only in exceptional cases. The restrictions were removed w i th effect f rom Ju ly 1. March 15. The Treasury announced that the Govern- ment had under taken to extend its guarantee on certain official s ter l ing reserves of Sterling Area countries for a fu r th er n ine -mon th period, effec t ive f rom April 1, 1974 to December 31, 1974. The new guarantee ar- rangements would incorporate modifications to the ar- rangements due to expire on March 31, 1974, and would include a f u r t h er general reduction of 10 per cent in the m in imum sterling proportions and a change in the determination of the guarantee, which would be expressed in terms of the effective depreciation of ster- l ing f rom the Smithsonian parities —the exchange rate for sterling in terms of a trade weighted average of ma jor currencies. The guarantee would be given at the average effec t ive depreciation of sterling in the preced- ing six-month guarantee period (18.35 per cent below the Smithsonian rate) and would be implemented if the average effective depreciation of sterling in the period of the new guarantee was below the guarantee rate. If implemented, the guarantee would be settled in ster- ling, derived as the sum necessary to restore the value of eligible balances, calculated at the implementation rate, to their value calculated at the guarantee rate. (The eligible sterling balances of official holders were the total amounts of sterling held on September 24, 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM 1973 or March 29, 1974 or December 31, 1974, less the greater of either 10 per cent of total reserves or the value of sterling equities on the relevant date, which- ever was the lowest. Where 10 per cent of total reserves was deducted, the amount would not exceed that de- ducted during the previous implementation.) March 23. Agreement was reached with other mem- ber countries of the EEC providing for special treat- ment under the Common Agricultural Policy for certain sectors in the United Kingdom. The agreement permitted the continuation of existing subsidy arrange- ments and the introduction of temporary subsidies on the production of beef, pig meat, and butter. March 26. The Chancellor of the Exchequer an- nounced that the Government would borrow US$2.5 billion in the Euro-dollar market. The agreement was signed on May 7. March 26. The swap credit line between the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was increased from US$2 billion to US$3 billion. March 27. A number of changes were introduced to the exchange control rules for direct and portfolio in- vestment. Their main effect was to terminate certain long-standing preferential treatment for the OSA and similar treatment accorded since early 1972 to the EEC. (1) The rules governing finance for outward di- rect investment in the OSA and EEC became the same as those applying to other Non-Scheduled Territories. Official exchange henceforth was available only for "super-criterion" projects and U.K. companies were normally expected to finance new investments in the OSA and the EEC by borrowing foreign currency or by one of the other permitted methods not involving the use of official exchange. (2) U.K. companies henceforth were expected normally to arrange for the repatriation to the United Kingdom of at least two thirds of the net after-tax earnings of their OSA subsidiaries, a require- ment already observed with respect to subsidiaries in other Non-Scheduled Territories (including the EEC). (3) The proceeds of the sale or liquidation of direct investments in Non-Scheduled Territory countries out- side both the EEC and OSA ceased to be eligible for sale in the investment currency market. These proceeds thereby had to be offered for sale for sterling at the official market rate of exchange, as had been applicable to realization proceeds in OSA and EEC countries. (4) Proceeds accruing to U.K. residents from the redemp- tion or sale of securities payable or optionally payable in OSA currencies (which since June 23, 1972 had been eligible for transaction in the investment currency mar- ket) became subject to the same 25 per cent surrender rules applicable to such proceeds of securities payable or optionally payable in non-Sterling Area currencies. March 28. The Chancellor of the Exchequer an- nounced that the Royal Mint would resume the pro- duction of gold sovereigns. None had been minted since 1968. March 31. The guarantee under the sterling guaran- tee arrangements for the period September 25, 1973 to 496 March 31, 1974 was implemented, in sterling, to com- pensate for the difference between the rate of US$2.3335 (the average of the daily U.S. dollar rate for sterling in that period) and the guarantee rate of US$2.4213. April 1. Changes in export insurance arrangements by the ECGD came into effect which provided for the inclusion of cover against buyer default in policies for trade between third countries when arranged and fi- nanced by U.K. merchants. April 1. The new Government announced that it pro- posed to seek a renegotiation of the terms of the United Kingdom's entry into the EEC. April 1. The rules for foreign currency borrowing by local authorities were modified. Following the estab- lishment of new local authorities grouping together ex- isting ones in England and Wales, the debt criterion for borrowing abroad, whether covered or uncovered, was increased from £100 million to £400 million; whereas previously eligible local authorities borrowed only on their own account, they were now expected to borrow on behalf of the county areas to which they belonged and the debt of their constituent parts counted toward their debt criteria. (In Scotland, however, the debt cri- terion of £100 million was retained, pending local au- thority reorganization in May 1975.) In addition, the reference date for the Government's lending rate used to calculate the rate payable by the borrower was changed from the date of draw-down to the date of the loan agreement. (The difference between the Govern- ment lending rate and the rate received by the lender, after allowing the borrower to keep a benefit of around 1 per cent, goes to the Treasury in return for a guaran- tee against exchange rate losses.) April 10. Henceforth, the Department of Trade was prepared to consider applications from any trader in- terested in the fruit-importing trade for individual im- port licenses for plantains of Dollar Area origin. May 30. The United Kingdom signed the OECD Declaration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Account Transactions. June 20. It was announced that purchases of shares on The Stock Exchange by or on behalf of persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories would be exempted from the doubling of stamp duty introduced in the budget. With effect from August 1, the duty on such transactions was restored to 1 per cent. June 25. The published rules regarding sterling bor- rowing from nonresidents were amended to bring them into line with current exchange control practice. The amendments provided that U.K. companies would nor- mally be permitted to borrow External Account ster- ling from nonresidents provided that the loan was for a minimum term of two years and that the interest rate was fixed for the term of the loan at not more than Vz of 1 per cent above the Euro-dollar interbank rate for borrowing for the same period at the time the loan is taken up. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution July 4. The initial emigration allowance for older persons (i.e., where a member of the family unit, or an individual in the case of single persons, has attained 65 years for men or 60 years for women) emigrating to a country outside the Scheduled Territories other than OS A countries was increased from £5,000 to £20,000. Persons who had already emigrated and whose assets were subject to restriction were permitted to take out additional amounts up to £20,000, provided they met the specified age requirements. July 6. Exports of silver alloy coins to all countries outside the Scheduled Territories were made subject to individual licensing. Previously, individual licenses were required for Non-Scheduled Territory countries other than member countries of the EEC. Genuine nu- mismatic exports to EEC countries would not be re- stricted. July 15. Imports of cattle and beef from "third" countries were suspended in accordance with a decision of the EEC Ministers of Agriculture. July 18. The fixed lending rate for ships under the scheme for clearing bank finance guaranteed by the ECGD was raised from 7 per cent to 7V2 per cent, exclusive of bank and other charges. August 20. The Bank of England announced that most banks and deposit-taking institutions (including full subsidiaries of foreign banks but excluding clearing banks and branches of foreign banks) would be re- quired from September 30 to provide additional in fo r- mation for surveillance purposes, particularly with respect to maturities of sterling assets and liabilities. August 28. New exchange control regulations affect- ing the purchase and ownership by residents of prop- erty for private use outside the Scheduled Territories came into effect. (1) Authorized banks henceforth could approve applications by U.K. residents to pur- chase investment currency up to the equivalent of £30,000 to buy from nonresidents property abroad for private use (previously, all applications were consid- ered by the Bank of England). Banks approv ing the purchase of such property would also be able to autho- rize the maintenance of a foreign currency account in connection with the ownership of the property. (2) Consideration would be given to applications by resi- dents wishing to take advantage of foreign currency loans, mortgages, or extended credit facilities for pri- vate property purchases outside the Scheduled Territo- ries. (3) Applicants wishing to purchase a plot of land on which to build a private dwelling would no longer be required to sign a declaration to the effect that build- ing would be completed within 18 months of authority being given for the purchase of the land. They would be expected to declare their firm in ten t ion that comple- tion, including all payments for the land and building project, would take place w i th in two years of the autho- rization. (4) Provision was made for persons who had purchased investment currency in connection w i th the acquisition of property abroad and who were later granted emigration status, to recover all or part of the UNITED KINGDOM investment currency premium incurred. (5) Permission would no longer be given for foreign currency proceeds arising from the sale of part of a property abroad to be treated as investment currency. September 23. The Bank of England asked consor- tium banks in London for a formal acknowledgement that ultimate responsibility for their affa irs rested with their shareholder banks. Subsequently, similar assur- ances were asked of the London subsidiaries of foreign banks. October 1. Importers were required to submit more detailed information to the Bank of England when re- questing permission to make advance payments for im- ports. October 2. Import licenses for textiles were no longer issued automatically against documents provided by the authorities of the Republic of China. October 17. New arrangements agreed between the government departments concerned, the Bank of En- gland, and the London and Scottish clearing banks came into effect with respect to the finance of medi- um-term and long-term export and shipbuilding cred- its. November 12. It was announced that the sterling guarantee arrangements would be discontinued at the end of the year. November 27. The English Court of Appeal decided that where the currency of a contract is a foreign cur- rency, the English courts have jurisdiction to give judg- ment for a sum expressed in that foreign currency. (The decision is being appealed to the House of Lords.) December 4. The Government announced that inter- national agreement had been reached on a m in imum interest rate of 7Y2 per cent for export credit with a ma tur i ty over five years. December 10. The exchange control regulations gov- erning outward direct investment outside the Sched- uled Territories were modified, as follows: (1) Interest paid or accrued on foreign currency borrowing taken to f inance the investment would be taken into account when calculating the matching benefits which must be received by the United Kingdom f rom the investment before repayment of the borrowing with official ex- change would be allowed. (2) Approval would nor- mally be given for a U.K. company, as part of a group reorganization, to sell or liquidate direct investments outside the Scheduled Territories and to reinvest the proceeds in fu r th er direct investment outside the Sched- uled Territories, provided that (a) the sale or liquida- tion was associated at the time with the intention to reinvest; (b) any shortfall on the requirement that two thirds of the after tax profits by the subsidiary be remit- ted to the U .K. parent had been rectified and any out- standing current debts to the U.K. parent had been repaid; and (c) the reinvestment took place within six months. December 17. Residents of the Republic of Ireland and Gibraltar who received permission to sell foreign currency securities beneficially owned by them prior to 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM April 7, 1965, and any other foreign securities derived therefrom, e.g., by way of "switches," were no longer exempt from the 25 per cent requirement, i.e., 25 per cent of the proceeds from sales of such securities was to be sold at the official rate of exchange. December 17. Changes in policy concerning exemp- tions from the exchange control regulations came into effect. (1) A person possessing the nationality or citi- zenship of a Scheduled Territory was no longer pre- cluded from applying for exemption from certain provisions of the Exchange Control Act if he was other- wise eligible. (2) Former residents of OSA countries who were, or would become, residents of the United Kingdom, could apply for exemption in special circum- stances, even though they were not nationals or citizens of countries outside the Scheduled Territories. (3) Ex- emptions would henceforth cover assets expressed in any foreign currency (previously only assets expressed in the currency of the applicant's country of nationality were covered). (4) Exemptions, except in certain cir- cumstances, would no longer apply to foreign currency assets acquired after an applicant became resident in the United Kingdom, unless such assets were acquired by way of gifts, charitable donations, or capital distri- butions under wills, intestacies, or trusts from sources outside the Scheduled Territories, or were derived from exempted assets. December 17. New exchange control regulations pro- vided that the foreign exchange facilities available to repatriates would cover citizens or nationals of all countries outside the Scheduled Territories other than Rhodesia; previously, they were available only to na- tionals of such countries. In addition, the facilities would be available to such persons irrespective of the country outside the Scheduled Territories in which they intended to reside; previously, they were limited to the country of the person's nationality. December 20. It was announced that exports of fer- rous scrap and of reusable and rerollable steel products to other member states of the EEC would be allowed without restriction with effect from January 1, 1975. Exports to other destinations would remain subject to individual licensing. December 20. It was announced that imports of cot- ton yarn from Greece and Turkey would be subject to specific import license with effect from December 25, and that imports of cotton yarn from sources that al- ready were controlled would continue to be subject to quota restrictions in 1975. (Subsequently, it was an- nounced that existing restraint arrangements for the import of all textiles from quota-controlled sources were being continued for the first quarter of 1975.) December 20. The Bank of England sent a memoran- dum to all authorized banks outlining ways in which their internal controls applied to operations in foreign exchange might be made more effective. The Bank also asked all banks registered in the United Kingdom to keep it informed of the scope of the foreign exchange 498 dealing authorities delegated to branches and subsidi- aries abroad. December 31. The sterling guarantee arrangements were allowed to expire. No further implementation payments were required. NOTES 1 Under the U.K. exchange control regulations, foreign currency comprises all currencies other than the currencies of the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and Gibraltar. 2 The U.K. regulations refer to Ireland as the Republic of Ireland, and for the purpose of this survey the U.K. usage is being followed. 3 The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is generally to be read as meaning securities payable or option- ally payable in a currency of a coun try other than the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and Gibraltar. Special regulations, however, are applicable to foreign currency secu- rities payable in Rhodesian currency. Sterling securities are defined as securities payable solely in sterling, Irish pounds, or Gibraltar currency. The term "securities" includes certifi- cates of deposit and treasury bills. 4 The OSA thus comprises Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Bermuda, Botswana, British Indian Ocean Territory, British Solomon Islands Protector- ate, British Virgin Islands, Brunei, Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Falkland Islands and Dependencies, Fiji, The Gambia, Ghana, Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony, Guyana, Hong Kong, Iceland, India and Sikkim, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Leeward Islands, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Mai- dive Islands, Malta, Mauritius and Dependency, Nauru, New Zealand, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Pitcairn Islands, Qatar, St. Helena and Dependencies, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Sing- apore, South Africa, South West Africa (Namibia), Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Tanzania, Tonga, Trinidad and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Samoa, Windward Islands, People's Democratic Re- public of Yemen, and Zambia. 5 With effect from January 29, 1975, authorized banks were empowered to approve certain specified payments, as follows: (1) from Rhodesian Accounts and Suspense Ac- counts in respect of living expenses of older residents of Rho- desia, educational and medical expenses in Rhodesia, and economy class air fares from the United Kingdom to Rhode- sia; and (2) from Suspense Accounts to U.K. residents and for living expenses in the United Kingdom of residents of Rhode- sia. 6 All goods from Rhodesia are subject to licensing control and licenses are not normally granted. 7 The Mediterranean Area comprises Cyprus, Greece, Leb- anon, Malta, Morocco, Spain, Tunisia, and Turkey. 8 The Non-Community Area comprises all countries other than EEC member states. 9 The Non-CEFTA Area comprises all countries other than EEC and non-Community EFTA member states. 10 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salva- dor, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicara- gua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 11 Japan will ultimately cease to be treated as in a category by itself. 12 The Eastern Area comprises Albania, Bulgaria, People's Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Re- public, Hungary, North Korea, People's Republic of Mongo- lia, Poland, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and also Romania. 13 Cocoa and cocoa preparations from all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance with the International Cocoa Agreement. The skins of certain rare animals and most primary whale products also cannot be imported under the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Open General License f rom any source. The restrictions on cotton textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States. 14 On April 3, 1975, surveillance arrangements for textile commodities came into effect. Import licenses became re- quired for imports of these items from countries other than the member states of the EEC. 15 For security reasons, v ir tua l ly all cu r rent paymen ts to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted, except when these result f rom per- m i t ted trade in goods. Consideration is, however, given to remittances on a limited basis to relieve hardsh ip and to remittances of a continuing na ture by charitable, religious, medical, and educational organizations for both current pur- poses or to meet capital expenditure in the educational and medical fields. Small personal g i f ts are also permitted where human i tar ian grounds exist for the purpose. 16 Where currency is received f rom the sale of residential real estate by residents of other Scheduled Territories, permis- sion may also be given for such f u n ds to be regarded as investment currency. 17 The fu ll amount of the foreign currency proceeds is nor- mally permitted to be sold as investment currency when the whole of a residential p rope r ty is sold which has been held for p r iva te use; when it has been held as an inve s tmen t, however, the proceeds are not no rma l ly eligible to be t rea ted as inves t- ment cu r rency. 18 Such exemp t ions may be g ran ted to persons who possess the na t iona l i ty or citizenship of a coun t ry which is outside the Scheduled Territories and, in some circumstances, to former residents of OSA countries who do not possess such national- ity or citizenship. 19 I n v e s tm e nt cu r r en cy may be invested tempo ra r i ly in sho r t - te rm gove rnment bonds (w i th up to s ix mon ths to run before f in al m a t u r i t y) or in s ix -mon th t rea su ry bills or o ther forms of recognized sho r t - te rm money -ma rket paper (includ- ing certificates of deposit) w i thout incu r r ing the need to com- ply w i th the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. 20 W i th effect f rom Janua ry 29, 1975, authorized banks could app rove applications by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia to buy and sell s te r l ing securities on The Stock Exchange, subject in the case of purchases to the securities being registered in the name of a U .K. au tho r ized depos i tary or the ir U .K. nominees and the c e r t i f i c a te of t i t le being held by the U .K. authorized depositary concerned, and in the case of sales, subject to the proceeds being withheld in suspense. 21 W i th effect f rom April 15, 1975, gold coins, gold med- als, etc., were b rought under s tr ic ter con trol by a combina- tion of t igh t er exchange con t ro ls and ind iv idu al impo rt licensing, as fo l lows: (1) The Exchange Con trol (Gold Coins Exemp t ion) Order, 1971 was revoked and was replaced by the Exchange Con t rol (Gold Coins Exemption) Order, 1975. The la t ter exempted all gold coins f rom the provisions of Sections 2 and 3 of the Exchange Control Act, 1947 but exempted f rom the provi- sions of Section 1 of the Act on ly the fo l low ing: (a) the buy- ing, selling, lend ing, and bo r row ing of gold coins m in t ed in or before 1837; (b) the b u y i ng and se l l ing of any gold coins m in ted a f t er 1837 and he ld in the Un i ted K ingdom, if the seller is a person res ident in the Un i t ed K ingdom and is not UNITED KINGDOM selling on behalf of a person resident outside the United Kingdom; and (c) the borrowing and lending of any gold coins minted af ter 1837 and held in the United Kingdom, if both the borrower and the lender are persons resident in the United Kingdom. For purposes of this Order, the United Kingdom was defined as including the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands. (2) Gold coins minted after 1837 and gold medals, medal- lions, tablets, or other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions and manufactured after 1837 could no longer be imported into the United Kingdom under the Open General Import License. Applications from authorized dealers in gold for a license to import gold coins minted after 1837 and gold medals, etc., manufactured after 1837 would normally be granted subject to certain conditions, but licenses would not otherwise be issued. (3) Restrictions were placed on sales of gold bullion and gold coins by authorized dealers in gold. These restrictions prohibited the sale, unless permitted by the Bank of England, of gold bullion for manufacturing gold coins, gold medals, and the like and prevented gold coins minted after 1837, that might be purchased in the fu tu re by authorized dealers from persons resident outside the United Kingdom, from being resold to U.K. residents, including other authorized dealers in gold. Except with the permission of the Bank of England, authorized dealers in gold were directed not to sell gold bul- lion and gold coins minted af ter 1837 to residents of the Scheduled Territories other than the United Kingdom; appli- cations for permission normally had to be supported by evi- dence of approval by the local exchange control authorities. Authorized dealers in gold could sell post-1837 gold coins on ly to persons resident outside the Scheduled Territories or to residents of the Un i ted Kingdom; sales to residents were permitted on ly if such coins were held for the account of, or had been purchased f rom, residents of the United Kingdom (including other authorized dealers in gold), or were from the ir own existing stocks acquired prior to April 16. In addition, the Bank of England ceased its sales of gold sovereigns to residents of the United Kingdom, with the ex- ception of sales to authorized gold dealers for export outside the Scheduled Territories. The ma in effect of these measures was that residents of the Un i ted Kingdom (other than authorized dealers in gold) could no longer import gold coins minted after 1837 or gold medals, etc., manufac tured after 1837; that any post-1837 gold coins that authorized dealers in gold might in the fu tu re purchase from persons resident outside the United Kingdom could not be resold to residents of the United Kingdom; and that the export of gold bullion and of post-1837 gold coins to G ib ra l tar and the Republic of Ireland was not normally pe rm i t ted except w i th the approval of the local control au- tho r i t ies. The ho ld ing, buy ing and selling, and borrowing and lending (between residents of the United Kingdom) of post-1837 gold coins and gold medals, etc., that were already in the United Kingdom remained unrestricted. Control over the export of all gold coins, irrespective of the year of issue, and of gold medals, etc., was not changed, but exports to the Scheduled Territories o ther than the Un i ted Kingdom were b rought und er closer con t ro l. 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar was estab- lished on October 18, 1973 at 0.736662 gram of fine gold, corresponding to US$42.22 a fine ounce or US$1.20635 = SDR 1. The convertibility of the U.S. dollar into gold and other reserve assets has been sus- pended and exchange rates are not maintained within any stipulated margin from parity. There are no restric- tions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authori- ties or nationals of Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam,1 and those imposed pursuant to UN Secu- rity Council Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 on any transfer of funds to, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any person in Rhodesia (including the authorities thereof), unless the funds are in payment of imports of strategic and critical materials of Rhodesian origin. The United States formally notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals with license applica- tions involving financial or commercial transactions directly or indirectly with Cuba, North Korea, Rhode- sia, and North Viet-Nam, or their nationals, as speci- fied under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations, the Cuban Assets Control Regulations, and the Rhodesian Sanctions Regulations.1 It also deals with license appli- cations involving the blocked accounts in the United States of the People's Republic of China under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations.1 The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Department administers im- port quotas; such quotas, however, are generally estab- lished and allocated by other agencies. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of im- port licenses. The import quotas on sugar are allotted among eligible exporting countries in accordance with a statutory formula administered by the Department of Agriculture and are prorated among eligible importers under regulations administered by that Department.2 Allocations and licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items subject to export control other than crude petroleum and petroleum products the Department of Commerce is, in general, the respon- sible authority. Imports and Import Payments The importation of merchandise, as well as payment therefor, is prohibited under Treasury regulations, un- less licensed, if such merchandise is of Cuban, North 500 Korean, or North Vietnamese origin,1 or, unless the goods are strategic and critical materials, if the mer- chandise is of Rhodesian origin. Import quotas are in effect for (1) beef, veal, pork, cattle, and hogs from Canada, pursuant to Section 252(A) of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962; (2) cotton, certain cotton waste and products, most dairy prod- ucts, and peanuts, pursuant to Section 22 of the Agri- cultural Adjustment Act; and (3) certain fish and certain potatoes. Import quotas established by the Sugar Act2 are in effect for sugar and confectionery. With the exception of the import quotas for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, and butter oil, the above quotas are on a country-of-production basis.2 The United States is a party to the new GATT Ar- rangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles, which provides a framework for the orderly expansion of international trade in textiles and apparel made of cotton, wool, or man-made fibers, and is a member of the Textile Surveillance Body established to supervise the Arrangement's implementation. The United States is nearing completion of an effort, begun in 1974, to bring all its bilateral textile agreements into conformity with the Arrangement's provisions. These agreements set the negotiated levels for the bilateral partners' ex- ports of textiles and apparel to the United States. As at the end of 1974, no limitations were applied to imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, but these were generally subject to import licenses and import license fees.3 Imports of fresh, frozen, or chilled beef, veal, and mutton are governed by bilateral agreements as an alternative to mandatory quotas under the Meat Import Act of 1964; in June 1972, all meat quotas were suspended, but in 1974 certain quotas were applied against Canada (see above). The transfer of funds to Rhodesia for most purposes other than payment for imports of strategic and critical materials (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is permitted only under license. Other payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions which are permitted only under license; these exceptions are payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam.1 Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions can be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammunition to South Africa. Most exports to Rho- desia require licenses and generally no licenses are is- sued except for food and humanitarian items. All exports (except phonograph records, publications, and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, are subject to individual vali- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution dated licenses.4 Exports of designated strategic materi- als and equ ipment to all other countries (except Can- ada) also require ind iv idual validated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to Western Euro- pean countries, Aus tra l ia, or Japan, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a fu ll year's ship- ments. The licensing requirements applicable to Po- land, Romania, and Yugoslavia are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries. Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have f rom time to t ime been subject to controls for reasons of short supp ly; as at the end of 1974 such controls were applicable to ferrous scrap5 and to crude petroleum and petroleum produc ts. The Secretary of Agr icu l ture has pub l ic ly asked for cooperation in vo lun t a ry repo r t ing of export plans for wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, and soybean oil in order to avoid the need for con tro ls. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are proh ib- ited to and f rom Cuba, No r th Korea, No r th V ie t -Nam, and Rhodesia.1 Individuals leaving or entering the coun t ry w i th more than US$5,000 in domestic or fo r- eign currency, travelers checks, money orders, a n d / or bearer-form negotiable securities must declare these to the customs at the point of exit or en t ry. Capital Incoming or ou tgo ing capital paymen ts by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on cer- tain transactions w i th or invo lv ing Cuba, Nor th Korea, North Viet-Nam,1 and Rhodesia, and there are certain reporting requirements for travelers entering or leaving the coun try (as well as corresponding repor t ing re- quirements for shipment of currency or bearer assets th rough the mails). Federal Reserve member banks must meet marginal reserve requirements of 8 per cent on Euro-dollar bor- their foreign branches;6 certain fo- rowings from reign-owned nonmember banks and agencies and branches of foreign banks comply vo lun tar i ly, at the request of the Federal Reserve Board. There are no regulations specifically governing the maximum size of any foreign currency positions banks may take, either over all or with respect to individual currencies, but surveillance of foreign exchange transactions of indi- vidual U.S. banks and their branches is effected through bank examinations. Gold U.S. citizens or residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Banks (but not savings and loan associations or Federal Home Loan Banks) may freely deal in gold bullion and gold UNITED STATES coins. U.S. gold coins remain legal tender at their face value. Treasury licensing of the importing and exporting of gold and the holdings or operations of producers, refin- ers, and processors of gold is no longer required. Pro- ducers of gold may sell their output at free market prices either to industrial users or abroad (except to monetary authorities). Gold may be freely imported, w i th the exception of counterfeit gold coins. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are free of quan- t i ta t ive restriction. Impor ts and exports of gold coins and gold bullion are free of customs du ty and other fiscal charges. Domestic sales of jewelry, including gold jewe lry, are subject to excise du ty at the ra te of 15 per cent, while domestic sales of gold in any other form, including gold coins, are free of fiscal charges. The use of the in terna t ional reserve assets of the Un i ted States has been limited to situations that might arise in which such use could contribute to interna- tional monetary stability and the interests of the United States. Changes during 1974 January 1. The Interest Equalization Tax (IET) pay- able by U.S. citizens or residents when purchasing for- eign stocks and debt obligations f rom foreigners was reduced f rom the equivalent of 3/4 of 1 per cent a year to the equivalent of V4 of 1 per cent for trades and acquisitions made a f ter December 31, 1973. January 1. The fo l low ing liberalization in the For- eign Direct Investment Program (FDIP) administered by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments became effective: (1) The m in imum world-wide allowable avail- able to smaller direct investors was raised from US$10 million to US$20 million. (2) The earnings allowable was increased f rom 60 per cent to 100 per cent of foreign aff i l ia te earnings for either 1973 or 1974, at the direct investor's election. This would permit compli- ance w i th the regulations w i thout the necessity of for- eign earnings remittance. (3) A new "debt repayment allowable" authorized a direct investor to repay 20 per cent of its total ou ts tand ing foreign borrowing allo- cated to positive direct investment as of the end of the 1973 compliance year. This repayment allowable was in addition to the m in imum, historical, and earnings al- lowables. The m in imum, historical, and earnings allow- ables were not, however, available for debt repayment, and direct investors were not permitted to reduce out- standing foreign debt below 80 per cent of the amount allocated effective as of year-end 1973. The regulations would operate to permit repayment of specific out- standing debt obligations, but direct investors would be required to refinance aggregate repayments in excess of the 20 per cent repayment allowable. Relief for bor- row ing hardsh ip situations would continue to be avail- able through specific authorization. January 1. The following amendments to the Volun- ta ry Foreign Credit Restraint Program (VFCRP) 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES guidelines became effective: (1) The ceiling for each commercial bank was increased to US$10 million or to an amount of 4 per cent above the ceiling in effect immediately prior to the present revision, whichever was higher. (2) The request that banks refrain from making nonexpert loans with maturities of over one year to residents of the developed countries of continen- tal Western Europe was eliminated. (3) U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks were given a ceiling of at least US$10 million for making foreign loans and other investments of types restrained under the VFCRP, whereas the existing minimum ceiling was US$1 million. (4) Agencies and branches could recalcu- late the "base net foreign position," which determined the relationship between their foreign lending and for- eign borrowing, by using 96 per cent of their foreign liabilities for June 30, 1973. (5) The restraint against term loans to the developed countries of continental Western Europe was dropped for agencies and branches, as it was being dropped for banks. (6) The ceiling of each nonbank financial institution was in- creased to an amount 5 per cent above that in effect at the end of 1972 or to US$2 million, whichever was higher. (7) The request that nonbank financial institu- tions refrain from increasing their loans and invest- ments in the developed countries of continental Western Europe beyond the amount held at the end of 1968 was eliminated. January 1. The United States formally accepted the GATT Arrangement Regarding International Trade in Textiles, covering textiles and apparel made of cotton, wool, and man-made fibers. January 2. The entry was authorized of an additional 100 million pounds of Cheddar cheese during the first quarter, over and above the annual import quota of about 10 million pounds, by Presidential Proclamation No. 4258. January 25. Quota restrictions on imports of wheat and milled wheat products were suspended un t il Ju- ly 1, by Presidential Proclamation No. 4260. January 29. The Treasury Department announced that the effective rate of the IET was reduced to zero, with immediate effect. The new zero rate would be applicable to trades and acquisitions of foreign stocks or obligations made after January 29. (On June 30, the legislation authorizing the imposition of the IET ex- pired.) January 29. The Department of Commerce an- nounced that the foreign direct investment controls administered by the Office of Foreign Direct Invest- ments were terminated with immediate effect. This ac- tion included rescission of the controls on repayment of outstanding foreign borrowings announced on Decem- ber 26, 1973. Certain statistical reporting requirements were maintained. January 29. The Federal Reserve Board announced the termination, with immediate effect, of the VFCRP. Certain statistical reporting requirements were main- tained. 502 January 31. The last phase of the duty reductions on window glass, negotiated in 1956 but suspended pursu- ant to Sections 301 and 351 of the Trade Expansion Act, became effective. February 1. The Federal Reserve swap line with the Bank of Italy was increased from US$2 billion to US$3 billion. February 11. The Federal Reserve Board clarified the status under Regulation M of certain loans made to enable the borrowers to comply with the FDIP by foreign branches of member banks to U.S. residents. The exemption from the 8 per cent reserve requirement on Federal Reserve System member banks' foreign branch loans to U.S. residents was terminated, except for loans made under binding commitments entered into before May 17, 1973. February 20. The increased import duty imposed on upright pianos (except grand pianos) pursuant to Sec- tions 301 and 351 of the Trade Expansion Act was terminated. The du ty reductions under the Kennedy Round were to take place in two phases, on January 1, 1975 and January 1, 1976. February 26. The suspension of quota restrictions on meat imports was extended to December 31, 1974. February 26. The first Board of Directors meeting of the U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council took place in Washington, D.C. March 4. The en try of 150 million pounds of nonfat dry milk was authorized up to the end of June, in addition to the annual quota of 1.8 million pounds, by Presidential Proclamation No. 4274. March 26. The Federal Reserve swap line with the Bank of England was increased from US$2 billion to US$3 billion. This action increased the size of the swap network to US$19.980 billion. April 4. The United States and Saudi Arabia agreed to expand cooperation in the fields of economics, tech- nology, and industry. April 18. The U.S. authorities authorized certain U.S. companies to allow their Argentine subsidiaries to ship specified locally produced motor vehicles to Cuba. It was emphasized that approval of these transactions constituted a special exception to the U.S. embargo on trade with Cuba. May 1. Import license fees were reimposed on im- ports of petroleum products from Canada. They had been removed on June 19, 1973. May 1. Countervailing import duties on selected cat- egories of ball bearings were imposed. May 24. In order to avoid duplication of reserve requirements, Regulation M was amended to eliminate Euro-dollar reserve requirements on loans by a foreign branch of one member bank to the domestic office of another member bank, where the borrowing member bank maintained reserves against that borrowing under Regulation D. May 30. The United States signed the OECD Decla- ration on Imports, Exports, and Other Current Ac- count Transactions. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May 31. Agreement was reached with Egypt to es- tablish a Joint Cooperation Commission designed to promote intensified cooperation in the economic, scien- tific, and cultural fields. June 3. The Department of Commerce announced that under the FDIP it would continue to require the larger direct investors to file qua r te r ly reports, for sta- tistical purposes only. June 8. Agreement was reached w i th Saudi Arabia to establish a Joint Commission on Economic Coopera- tion as well as several jo int work ing groups. June 8. The New York Clearing House announced that foreign currency payments normally processed by it would be subject to possible cancellation at 10:00 a.m. on the day fo l low ing the transac t ion. June 14. Certain principles of relations and coopera- tion between Egypt and the Un i ted States were agreed. June 25. Presidential Proclamation No. 4298 sus- pended indef in i te ly the quota restrictions on imports of wheat and milled wheat products, effective immedi- ately. June 27. The Treasury published, for comment, cer- tain proposed amendmen ts to its regulations governing the repor t ing of transac t ions in foreign exchange, trans- fers of credit, and export of coin and currency. These amendments would prescribe supplemental reporting requirements relating to foreign currency transactions by large U.S. enterprises and their foreign branches and majority-owned foreign subsidiaries—as required by Title II of P.L. 93-110 (the Act amending the Par Value Modification Act) —to provide additional data on the na tu re and source of flows of mobile capital. The pro- posals provided for weekly repor t ing by bankers and bank ing ins t i tu t ions in the United States of their posi- tions, spot and fo rwa rd, in specified foreign currencies, and mon th ly reporting of their assets, liabilities, and positions in the same currencies. The proposals also provided for mon th ly reporting by nonbank corpora- tions of their assets, liabilities, and spot and fo rwa rd positions in specified currencies. These amendmen ts, as f i n a l ly adopted, were published on October 16 and 21 and came in to effect for repor t ing by banks on Novem- ber 30, 1974. (Similar reporting requirements for non- bank f irms were published on February 24, 1975 and came in to effect for reporting on March 31, 1975.) The currencies to be reported were Belgian f rancs (commer- cial and financial), Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. Foreign branches and subsidiaries of U.S. banks also were to report their positions in U.S. dollars. June 28. An Agreement on Cooperation between the Un i ted States and the U.S.S.R. in the Field of Energy was signed. June 29. A Long-Term Agreement on Economic, Indus tr ia l, and Technical Cooperation was signed w i th the U.S.S.R., to supplement the Trade Agreement of October 18, 1972. (While the U.S.S.R. in January 1975 informed the United States that under the terms of the UNITED STATES Trade Act of 1974 it could not bring the 1972 agree- ment into force, this left the Long-Term Agreement entirely unaffected .) July 3. The preferential trade agreement with the Philippines (the Laurel-Langley Agreement) expired. July 20. The United States subscribed to the Fund's Vo lun tary Declaration on Trade and Other Current Account Measures for Balance of Payments Purposes. August 14. The President signed legislation to termi- nate, by December 31, 1974 at the latest, the prohibi- tion on ownership of gold by U.S. citizens and residents. Under the new law, P.L. 93-373, no law, rule, regulation, or order might be construed to prohibit any person from purchasing, holding, selling, or otherwise dealing w i th gold in the United States or abroad. This provision was to take effect either on December 31, 1974, or at any time prior to that date that the Presi- dent m ight f ind and report to Congress that in terna- tional mone tary reform had proceeded to the point where elimination of regulations on private ownership of gold would not adversely affect the U.S. interna- tional monetary position. August 27. The In te rnal Revenue Service (IRS) ruled that offshore f inanc ing subsidiaries of U.S. companies (which had often been used as vehicles for f loa t ing Euro-bond issues) would be required to w i thho ld taxes (at the regular 30 per cent rate) on interest and dividend payments to non-U.S. residents for financing in the form of securities arranged after June 30, 1974. This action terminated an income tax exemption that had been linked to the operation of the terminated capital control programs. Not affected were bond issues floated th rough a "foreign source income company," i.e., a company deriving 80 per cent or more of its income from overseas. The IRS stated that it had not yet been decided whether the withholding tax would be charged on new drawings on existing credit lines be- tween U.S. corporate subsidiaries abroad and foreign banks. August 28. The operating au tho r i ty of the Overseas Private Investor Corporation was extended th rough December 31, 1977. Its insurance activities were to be transferred to an association of private insurance com- panies by December 31, 1980. September 9. The Treasury reminded the public that, un t il the termination of the gold restrictions, gold fu- tures t rad ing or the acquisition of any f u t u re interest in gold remained restricted under the Gold Regulations. The regulations prohibited the purchase or sale of any present or fu tu re interest in gold in any form, direct or indirect, for speculative purposes. September 11. Countervailing duties were imposed on impor ts of nonrubber footwear f rom Brazil. October 7. The Administration announced the initia- tion of a vo lun ta ry system for approv ing big export orders for grain and soybeans. Under this system (ap- plicable to wheat, corn, sorghum, soybeans, and soy- bean flour), exporters were expected to obtain advance approval from the Department of Agriculture when (1) 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES a sale contract would involve shipment of more than 50,000 tons of a particular commodity on a single day to any one country of destination, or cause cumulative sales of any commodity to a single destination to exceed 100,000 tons in a week; and (2) any change from export destinations previously reported under existing con- tracts would affect more than 30,000 tons of one com- modity on a single day or more than 100,000 tons in a week. (These amounts were doubled in February 1975, and the approval requirement was discontinued with effect from March 6, 1975; reporting requirements were maintained.) October 8. The President proposed a stabilization program which would include energy conservation measures designed to reduce imports of petroleum by one million barrels a day by the end of 1975. October 14. The Export Administration Act was amended and extended until September 30, 1976. It granted the President broad authority to retaliate against countries withholding supplies or charging ex- orb i tant prices. A total embargo of U.S. exports could be applied against countries whose foreign trade poli- cies un fa i r ly injured the U.S. economy. Also, the Presi- dent could place export controls on U.S. products in limited supply, could apply export quotas and fees whenever overseas demand threatened to have a serious inf la t ionary impact or depleted scarce U.S. resources, and could introduce a systematic export monitoring system. October 19. Agreement was reached that the U.S.S.R. would limit its total purchases of U.S. grain during the current crop year to 2.2 million tons, with the understanding that additional quantities might be purchased later. October 23. A bill to create a Commodity Futures Trading Commission was signed into law. The new Commission would begin operations in April 1975. October 26. Countervailing duties were imposed on certain footwear from Brazil and Spain. October 26. The President signed into law the For- eign Investment Study Act of 1974, P.L. 93-479. It directed the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of Commerce to conduct a comprehensive, overall study of foreign portfolio and direct investments in the United States. The President stated that the Act was intended to gather information only, and he declared that his Administration would oppose any new restric- tion on foreign investment in the United States except where absolutely necessary on national security grounds or to protect an essential national interest. November 1. The Treasury Department promulgated in proposed form regulations, instructions, and forms to implement its responsibilities under the Foreign In- vestment Study Act. The documents became effective (see December 20, below) after a period for public comment on the proposals that ended on Novem- ber 22. November 7. The Treasury Department stated that the provisions of P.L. 93-373 terminating the gold re- 504 strictions would take effect on December 31, 1974 (see August 14, above). November 16. Quota restrictions were imposed on imports from Canada of cattle, hogs, beef, veal, and pork, retroactive to August 12, 1974, under Section 252(A) of the Trade Expansion Act. November 17. It was announced that the sugar im- port quota for 1975 would be 7 million short tons. The tariff rate would not be changed. November 22. The Federal Reserve Board ceased to guarantee bankers' acceptances purchased for foreign official accounts, and raised from US$500 million to US$1 billion the overall limit on the Federal Reserve System's outright holdings of bankers' acceptances. December 3. The Treasury announced that the U.S. Government would offer for sale approximately 2 mil- lion ounces of gold in 400-ounce bars on January 6, 1975, at public auction; the Department would con- sider at a later date whether subsequent sales of gold would be appropriate. (The offering was announced by the General Services Administration on December 9. On December 20 the Treasury stated that it would not accept bids from foreign governments or central banks.) December 3. The Federal Reserve Board sent to Con- gress proposed legislation to establish a national policy on foreign banks operating in the United States and a system of federal regulation and supervision of those operations. (This proposed legislation was resubmitted to the Congress on March 4, 1975.) December 9. The Treasury announced its view that obligations payable in gold or an amount of money measured thereby would continue to be unenforceable in the United States (Public Resolution of June 5, 1933, 31 U.S.C. 463) even after private ownership of gold became legalized on December 31, 1974. December 9. The Federal Reserve Board informed member banks that, when P.L. 93-373 came into force, gold in the form of coins or bullion could not be counted as vault cash in order to satisfy reserve require- ments, and that no Federal Reserve Bank would accept gold as collateral for an advance to a member bank. December 9. The Treasury announced that, in view of the likelihood that the Exchange Stabilization Fund would not be engaging in fur ther transactions to stabi- lize the value of the dollar relative to gold, the gold held by the Stabilization Fund had been sold on Decem- ber 9 to the Treasury, at its par value. December 11. The Department of Commerce an- nounced that no fu r ther FDIP statistical reporting would be required under the legal authority applicable to the previously terminated Office of Foreign Direct Investments. This did not affect, however, the quarterly reporting to the Bureau of Economic Analysis on trans- actions between U.S. companies and their foreign sub- sidiaries and branches; this was covered by a different legal au thor i ty and was still required for balance of payments purposes. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 19. The operating au thor i ty of the Ex- por t-Import Bank was extended until mid-1978. The Bank's f inanc ing au tho r i ty was increased from US$20 billion to US$25 billion. Certain limitations on loans to the U.S.S.R. were imposed. December 20. The Treasury Department promul- gated in f inal form the regulations, instructions, and fo rms for its survey of foreign por tfo l io investment in the United States under P.L. 93-479 (see October 26, above). Reports would be required on Form FPI-1 from all U.S. issuers of securities having assets of more than US$20 million, or US$50 million in the case of banks. Firms with assets of less than these amoun ts would be required to file Form FPI-1 only if they had evidence of foreign investment. Firms with assets of less than US$1 million were exempted f rom the reporting requirements applicable to U.S. issuers. Reports on Form FPI-2 would be required f rom U.S. persons act- ing as holders of record (e.g., nominees, trustees, fidu- ciaries) on behalf of foreign persons. Exempted were holders of record who held no more than US$25,000 of U.S. inves tmen ts on behalf of fore ign persons; parents or guardians acting as custodians for minors; and cer- tain estates and trusts. For purposes of the reports, foreign portfolio investment included all securities of a U.S. corporation, including stocks, bonds, and other evidence of ownersh ip or long-term indebtedness, held by a foreign person owning less than 10 per cent of the voting securities of the corporation. (Investment by foreigners owning a 10 per cent or greater equity inter- est would be reported to the Department of Com- merce.) In addition to corporate interests, the Treasury survey would cover foreign portfolio ownership of secu- rities of federal, state, or local governments or their ins trumen ta l i t ies, limited par tnersh ip interests, invest- ment t rust certificates, and other evidences of owner- ship or indebtedness of noncorporate enterprises. Excluded from the survey were debt obligations with an original ma tur i ty of one year or less. December 20. The U.S. Trade Bill was passed. Au- tho r i ty would be granted for the Adm in is t ra t ion to enter in to broad-scale international trade negotiations, while offer ing safeguards to domestic industries and workers hu rt by import competition. The main provi- sions would provide the President au thor i ty: (1) To negotiate on ta r i ff and non ta r i ff barriers to trade during a five-year period. (2) To mod ify the levels of tar iffs and quotas in order to deal with U.S. balance of payments deficits or surpluses for up to 180 days without Con- gressional approva l. (3) To g rant import relief and ad- ju s tment assistance on the basis of liberalized criteria and procedures. (4) To provide speedier relief from un fa ir foreign trade practices. (5) Subject to certain UNITED STATES provisos, to extend most-favored-nation status to com- munist countries. (6) To grant generalized tariff prefer- ences to developing countries. (The Trade Act of 1974, P.L. 93-618, was signed in to law and came in to force on January 3, 1975.) December 31. The U.S. Sugar Act expired (P.L. 92-138). December 31. P.L. 93-373 became effective. It re- moved the restrictions introduced in 1933 on persons (including banks) purchasing, holding, selling, or oth- erwise dealing with gold, notably the restrictions on private ownership of gold. Prior to this date, private U.S. citizens or residents were not permitted to hold gold at home or abroad except for industrial, profes- sional, or artistic purposes or in the form of numismatic coins or jewelry; imports of gold coins minted after 1959 (other than restrikes of older coins) were not nor- mally licensed as numismatic coins. Banks (but not federally chartered savings and loan associations or Federal Home Loan Banks) became free to purchase and sell gold bullion and gold coin, and they could accept both as collateral for loans. U.S. gold producers and refiners or processors of gold no longer needed Treasury licenses for their holdings and opera- tions. Trading in gold commodity fu tures and transac- tions involving margin and leverage contracts in gold bullion and bulk gold coins would on April 21, 1975 become subject to the jurisdiction and regulation of the new Commodity Futures Trading Commission. NOTES 1 Similar restrictions in respect of the authorities or nation- als of the Khmer Republic were imposed on April 21, 1975, and in respect of the authorities or nationals of South Viet- Nam on April 30, 1975. 2 The Sugar Act expired on December 31, 1974, thus end- ing coun t ry -by -coun t ry quotas. However, under various other laws and regu la t ions the President is authorized to set a global quo ta. By establishing a global quota the President is permitted to establish a ta r i ff rate lower than he would otherwise be permitted to establish. The quotas on sweetened chocolate, candy, and confectionery were abolished w i th ef- fect f rom Janua ry 1, 1975. 3 On February 1, 1975, a special import fee of US$1 a barrel was introduced on imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products. 4 W i th effect f rom May 16, 1975, the Khmer Republic and South Viet-Nam were added to country group Z, with the general embargo policy applicable, except for humanitarian cases. 5 The export controls over ferrous scrap were discontinued w i th effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1975. 6 On April 9, 1975, it was announced that the reserve re- quirement against Euro-dollar borrowings was being reduced to 4 per cent with effect from the four-week period beginning May 22, 1975. Also affected were foreign-owned banking institutions that had voluntarily maintained an 8 per cent reserve against Euro-dollar borrowings since mid-1973. 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc,1 which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc. Exchange trans- actions in French francs, the intervention currency, be- tween the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. The BCEAO levies a commission of YIO of 1 per mill for transfers within the West African Monetary Union and a commission of 2.50 per mill for transfers to countries outside the Union. Exchange rates for foreign currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Banks levy a commission on transfers to all countries outside the West African Monetary Union, part of which must be surrendered to the Treasury. With the exception of those relating to gold, Upper Volta's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mali, Niger, Senegal, and Togo). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Upper Volta itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are sub- ject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the External Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the Ministry of Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertis- ing, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta, inward direct investment and all outward invest- ment, and the soliciting of funds in Upper Volta for placement in foreign countries. The approval authority in respect of exchange control (except for imports and exports of gold, forward exchange cover, and business travel allocations in excess of CFAF 400,000) has been delegated to the BCEAO and, within limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized inter- mediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of banks, fi- nancial institutions, the Postal Administration, and no- taries public, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be effected 506 through authorized banks, the Postal Administration, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Commerce at the Ministry of Commerce, Industrial Development, and Mines. Im- port certificates or attestations for liberalized commod- ities and export attestations (when settled in foreign currencies) are made out by the importer or exporter himself and are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any Operations Account country. Cer- tain settlements with Ghana are made through special accounts. Settlements with all other countries are usu- ally made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settle- ments with Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. BCEAO bank- notes may be credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs when they have been mailed direct to the BCEAO agency in Ouagadougou by authorized banks' foreign correspondents. Otherwise, the crediting to nonresi- dent accounts of BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports originating in or shipped from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may in princi- ple be made freely, although exceptionally, special reg- ulations may be issued. Imports shipped from and originating in EEC countries, with minor exceptions, are liberalized and require only an import certificate (attestation). Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing. Imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are admitted in accor- dance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this pro- gram, global quotas are established up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities. Imports from Ghana are subject to special regulations. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000. The import licenses or import certificates (attestations) entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control ap- proval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. All payments to Portugal, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. Authorized banks and the Postal Administration have been em- powered to make payments to foreign countries freely, on behalf of residents, up to CFAF 50,000 a transfer. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been ap- proved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted. Residents traveling for tourism to countries other than France (as defined above), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a person a trip (CFAF 87,500 for children under ten) for any number of trips a year; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter return to Upper Volta must be surrendered. The basic allocation for travel abroad for business purposes is the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, with a max imum of CFAF 400,000 a trip. Resident travelers going to for- eign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes issued by any ins t i tu te of issue that maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury. Resident travelers to other countries of the French Franc Area may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a coun try that is not a member of the West African Monetary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may free ly take out, in addi- tion to any means of payment established in their name abroad, foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 175,000 or, subject to the submission of appro- priation (if it was either declared upon entry or ac- quired by drawing on a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign Currency or by exchange of foreign travelers checks, etc.), any larger amoun t. They may also take out any foreign means of payment other than banknotes acquired in Upper Volta by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs or an Account in Foreign UPPER VOLTA Currency, again subject to submission of documenta- tion. Finally, they may take out freely up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes issued by Operations Account countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes certain agri- cultural products require a license from the Directorate of Commerce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all other countries are permitted freely but some also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds received in curren- cies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered within two mon ths of the date on which the payment falls due (the due date stipulated in the commercial contract, which must not, in principle, be later than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination). All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domi- ciled w i th an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 500,000, and the exporter must sign a foreign exchange commitment and submit a customs certifica- tion. Proceeds from In visibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area may be re- tained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered w i th in two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earnings must not be received in or from Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Res- ident travelers must declare to the customs any foreign means of payment in excess of CFAF 5,000 that they bring in and within eight days after return surrender these to an authorized bank. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France (as defined above), Monaco, and other Operations Ac- count countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, ad- vertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the ex- ception of those over foreign securities in Upper Volta, the control measures do not apply to relations with France (as defined above), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Spe- cial controls are maintained also over imports and ex- ports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and insti- tutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building opera- tions abroad; these special controls do apply also to France (as defined above), Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investments abroad by residents of Upper Volta require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.2 Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta3 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of either type of invest- ment also is subject to prior declaration to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign investments in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and the BCEAO within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of for- eign securities in Upper Volta requires prior authoriza- tion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Upper Volta Government and (2) shares that are similar to or may be substituted for securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper Volta has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authoriza- tion: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transac- tions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Volta, or by international 508 trading houses previously approved by the Minister of Finance to finance international merchanting transac- tions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one borrower, provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate and that the proceeds are immediately surrendered by the sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or debited to a Foreign Account in Francs. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was sub- ject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization by the BCEAO, acting on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Ordinance No. 70-074/PRES/PL-TP of Decem- ber 31, 1970, the Investment Code, provides preferen- tial treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified enterprises for periods of up to 25 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiable between the investor and the Gov- ernment, and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of exceptional importance to the development of the country. Law No. 25761 /AN set up an assis- tance fund for new industries. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the Ministry of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a com- bined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1974 January 19. The fixed exchange rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 was maintained following the announcement of the French authorities that during the next six months, and on a provisional basis, the interventions of the Exchange Stabilization Fund in the official exchange market would no longer aim at limiting the exchange rates between the French franc and certain other cur- rencies within predetermined margins. An official deci- sion to this effect was taken by the Council of the West African Monetary Union on January 24. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 21. Following the abolition of the dual ex- change market in France, the dual market arrange- ments in Upper Volta also ceased to operate. The financial franc market and the Financial Accounts in Francs were abolished and settlements with countries outside the French Franc Area henceforth took place only through the official exchange market and through Foreign Accounts in Francs. The relevant exchange control regulations were issued in Upper Volta on April 2, April 6, and June 1. April 2. Order No. 253 /MEF revoked Order No. 403 /MFC of June 13, 1972. All purchases and sales of foreign currencies (spot or fo rwa rd) and all payments between Upper Volta and foreign countries or between a resident and a nonresident henceforth had to be made through the official exchange market. April 6. Circular No. 17 substituted in Circular No. 106 of December 5, 1968 (and in all related circu- lars) the term "official exchange market" for "financial f ranc market," and the term "Foreign Account in Francs" for "Financial Account in Francs." UPPER VOLTA June 1. Circular No. 29 modified Circular No. 106 of December 5, 1968 (as amended) concerning nonresi- dent accounts in francs and foreign securities dossiers in light of the abolition of the dual exchange market. The Circular also revoked Circular No. 110 of December 9, 1971, thus terminating the freedom for residents to lend CFA francs to nonresidents for periods of up to two years. NOTES 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common cur- rency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by per- sons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidi- aries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 3 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960 a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was established by Uruguay with the Fund; how- ever, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market, consisting of a commercial market and a f inan- cial market. Payments and receipts in respect of imports, exports, freight, and insurance on imports and exports, and most public sector exchange operations are settled in the commercial market, where the exchange rates are fixed (although adjusted from time to time), while all other permitted exchange transactions take place in the financial market, in which the exchange rate fluctuates freely. On December 31, 1974 the buying and selling rates in the commercial market were Ur$ 1,640 and Ur$ 1,656 per US$1, respectively, and those in the fi- nancial market were Ur$2,150 and Ur$2,170 per US$ 1, respectively. The Central Bank of Uruguay supplies foreign ex- change to the commercial banks for imports, and the proceeds from exports (valued at the officially assessed price or aforo where applicable) must be surrendered to the monetary authorities.1 Commercial banks operate on their own account in the financial market, but are not permitted to exceed their combined overbought positions in both markets as specified below, and must surrender any excess exchange holdings to the Central Bank; the relevant limit is the equivalent in U.S. dollars of the sum of the U.S. dollar position on February 29, 1972 and the position in Argentine pesos and Brazilian cruzeiros on September 20, 1974. Various additional effective exchange rates arise from the following: (1) the application of exchange taxes (detracciones or retenciones) to the proceeds from certain traditional exports; (2) the payment of subsidies through tax credit certificates (reintegros) on proceeds from certain nontraditional exports; (3) the 40 per cent tax on certain profit remittances; (4) the minimum ex- ternal f inanc ing requirements for imports; (5) the sale in the financial market of the excess of the actual f.o.b. value over the aforo or the minimum surrender value (sobreaforos) on wool exports; and (6) the special de- posit requirements (consignaciones) on imports. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through au- thorized banks, banking houses, and the monetary au- thorities. The latter collect import surcharges and export taxes, hold the special deposits required for cer- tain imports, and receive export and import registra- tions. 510 Prescription of Currency Payments between Uruguay and the countries with which Uruguay has concluded reciprocal credit agree- ments may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the central banks, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system; these countries are Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colom- bia, Mexico, Peru, and Venezuela. Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other con- vertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments* All imports are subject to registration prior to the placing of orders abroad. The registrations are gener- ally valid for 180 days, within which period goods must be cleared through customs. Certain imports are tem- porarily prohibited. Most imports are subject to an import surcharge (recargo), a special deposit (consigna- tion), and /or prescribed terms of payment. Goods are classified into nine categories; goods in one category bear no surcharge; goods in other categories are subject to surcharges of 10, 30, 40, 55, 75, 120, 150, or 200 per cent, payable at the time of registration. Imports from LAFTA countries receive a full or partial exemption from the surcharges. Many imports are subject to spe- cial deposits in Uruguayan pesos of a certain percent- age of the c.i.f. value; the deposit must be lodged with the monetary authorities at the time of registration and is refundable upon application after six months. For 1974, imports by each importer in each sur- charge category were exempt from special deposits when they did not exceed, per quarter, 80 per cent of the value of the goods he imported free of deposit dur- ing the second half of 1971; in addition, special deposits were waived up to a specified percentage of individual imports in 1970 and 1971 of certain special categories of imports. (In 1974, there were also some ad hoc allo- cations to cover special needs or to offset increased price levels abroad.) For imports in excess of the mar- gin exempt from special deposits, the required deposit rate varied depending on the surcharge category appli- cable as of July 21, 1971. For general category imports free of surcharge, or imports with surcharges as of that date of up to 50 per cent, the special deposit was 450 per cent of the c.i.f. value (315 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries); for imports with surcharges of more than 50 per cent and up to 110 per cent the rate was 900 per cent (630 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries); and for imports with surcharges of 150 per cent or more, the rate was 1,200 per cent (840 per cent for imports from LAFTA countries). The regime of special deposits is not applicable to goods designated as capital goods by Decree No. 482/971 of August 3, 1971; these are subject to a spe- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cial regime. Capital goods for specified industries are exempt f rom special deposits, provided they meet cer- tain m in imum external f inanc ing requirements. Most impor ts are subject, in addition to any customs du ty required, to an additional import du ty of 18 per cent of the c . i .f. value, payable upon customs clearance. The tax is not applied to impor ts originating in GATT or LAFTA countries, nor to impor ts of specified agen- cies and public ins t i tu t ions; in add i t ion, an exemption of 100 per cent, 85 per cent, or 40 per cent of the applicable tax is provided for specified imports. All imports valued at over US$1.82 are subject to consular charges of Vi0 of 1 per cent of the peso amount result- ing f rom the conversion of the f .o .b. value at a rate of Ur$55 per US$1; the amount of the charges is payable in foreign exchange at a rate of U r $l = US$2.10 (at a ra te of U r $l = US$1 for pr iva te impor ts of petroleum and petroleum products, alcohol, and te trae thyl lead, at a rate of U r $l = US$0.50 for impor ts of the same commodities by the Administracion Nacional de Com- bustibles, Alcohol y Por t land (ANCAP) — the state oil, cement, and alcohol enterprise —and at a rate of U r$l = US$1.05 for certain other imports by ANCAP).3 Special deposits and surcharges in most cases are calculated either on assumed c.i.f. prices (aforos) estab- lished for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calcula- tion is based on an o f f ic ia l ly assessed price, which usu- ally is expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Sales of foreign exchange for most private sector impo r ts are proh ib i ted unless m in imum f inanc ing re- qu iremen ts are fu l f i l led. At the end of 1974, foreign exchange was made available by the bank ing system for imports of goods other than capital goods only when payable 180 days or more a f ter the date of sh ipmen t; for capital goods the m in imum terms ranged from 180 days to f ive years, applicable to at least 80 per cent of the c . i .f. value. For general imports for which f inanc ing under these conditions could not be obtained, the Cen- tral Bank could authorize the sale of exchange on a case-by-case basis. The sale of exchange was made at the earliest 15 days prior to the ma tu r i ty date. Provided that the importer had deposited the peso equivalent of the transaction w i th in 30 days af ter the date of ap- proval of the application for customs clearance, the sale was made at the rate of exchange in effect on the date of the deposit; for importers not mak ing the deposit w i th in the 30-day period, however, the sale of exchange was made at the rate in effect on the date of payment. Special arrangements were applied to certain other import payments and an exchange rate guarantee was given subject to the lodging of a peso deposit w i th the Central Bank. Certain delays have arisen in the imple- mentation of these arrangements. Payments for Invisibles Freight and insurance on imports and exports are settled in the commercial marke t. Payments for all URUGUAY other invisibles may be made freely through the finan- cial market. Certain profit remittances are subject to a tax of 40 per cent. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal exports are subject to taxes (detracciones or retenciones), which are withheld by the monetary authorities on the basis of either the f.o.b. value or the aforo value of the commodity con- cerned. The tax is stipulated in pesos per unit of export commodity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of meat the stipulated max imum is 25 per cent while for wool the permitted limits are 2 per cent and 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value. The exchange proceeds of traditional exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in fu ll to the monetary au- thorities. At the end of 1974 the prescribed surrender periods were as follows: generally, not later than 30 days after shipment has been authorized (180 days for combed wool); for exports of nontraditional products, however, w i th in 60 days if the sale is on a cash basis (75 days for certain leather goods) or within 210 days if the sale is made on credit. For certain exports, including wool and hides, mini- mum f.o.b. values (m in imum surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram have been estab- lished for various grades and types. There are special arrangements for the advance surrender (anticipos and preanticipos) of the exchange proceeds from exports. Surrender before the export is registered (preanticipos) is permitted for wool, meat, cereals, oilseeds, and non- traditional exports; surrender af ter registration (an- ticipos) is limited to some traditional exports. Subsidies in the form of tax credit certificates (reintegros) of up to 50 per cent of the f.o.b. value are granted on certain non trad i t ional exports (80 per cent for new exports). Exports of certain types of beef and dairy cows, wool ewes, specified minerals (including iron, copper, zinc, a lum inum, and nickel), and protein concentrates used for animal feed are prohibited. As at the end of 1974 exports of certain animal fats, all types of sheepskin, and animal bristle were also temporarily prohibited. Exports of greasy wool, wheat, sorghum, corn, and sunflower seeds are prohibited from time to time. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold to the banking system. Department stores, hotels, and other tourist establishments are authorized to ac- cept foreign currencies at the rate prevailing in the financial market; the proceeds must be sold th rough the bank ing system. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by either resi- dents or nonresidents may be made freely through the financial market. However, certain borrowing abroad is controlled, and the amortization or liquidation pro- ceeds of foreign capital cannot normally be transferred abroad until three years after the date on which the investment was approved. Exchange rate guarantees are in effect available on certain inward capital trans- fers, whether made by residents or nonresidents; these consist of swaps with the Central Bank. New foreign investments in Uruguay, as well as certain existing for- eign investments, are governed by a Foreign Invest- ment Law (Law No. 14179 of March 28, 1974, as amended by Law No. 14244 of July 26, 1974 and De- cree No. 808/974 of October 10, 1974). Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Uruguay or abroad, provided that the transactions are registered. Gold may be exported only if accompanied by evidence of prior importation. Any private purchases abroad for nonindustrial use, how- ever, must either be financed from the buyer's own exchange holdings or settled through the financial mar- ket. Imports and exports of gold for industrial use are settled through the commercial market. Changes during 1974 During the year, the buying and selling rates in the commercial market were gradually depreciated from Ur$928 and Ur$937 to Ur$ 1,640 and U r$ 1,656 per US$1; those in the financial market moved from Ur$925 and Ur$930 to Ur$2,150 and Ur$2,170 per US$1. March 22. A special mterministerial commission (CIADE) was established to consider applications by the private sector for procurement abroad with exemp- tion from special deposits. (The commission was abol- ished on June 1, 1975.) March 28. An Industrial Promotion Law (Law No. 14178) was passed. It provided for tax and other incentives for industries declared to be of national inter- est. March 28. Law No. 14179, the Foreign Investment Law, came into effect. Foreign investment was autho- rized in principle in all sectors of the economy but special authorization by the Central Government was required for investment in many specified lines of busi- ness. Authorization guaranteed the transfer of capital and profits through the financial market. Outward cap- ital transfers could be made not earlier than three years after the date of approval of the investment contract. Profits that had not been remitted during the last three financial years could be treated as new capital invest- ment. Foreign exchange for profit remittances would be sold by the Central Bank at the rate of exchange pre- 512 vailing in the financial market on the day the profits were declared, provided an application was submitted within 60 days of that date; after that period, the ex- change rate on the day of application would apply. Foreign companies were defined as those companies whose capital was at least 50 per cent foreign owned. Foreign companies could not contract medium-term or long-term loans in Uruguay, and only in exceptional cases could they borrow at short term in Uruguay; in addition, they required prior authorization to borrow abroad. Existing companies in which foreign capital had more than a majority interest were given 180 days to register. (Some provisions were changed by Law No. 14244 of July 26, 1974 and Decree No. 808/974 of October 22, 1974.) March 28. Circular No. 504 increased the exchange allocation for travel to Argentina from $a 1,000 to $a 1,500 a person a trip and that for travel to Brazil from Cr$600 to Cr$900 a person a trip. March 29. A Hydrocarbons Law (Law No. 14181) came into force. Subsequently, bids were invited for offshore petroleum exploration contracts. April 1. Circular No. 505 set the deposit-free import quotas for the second quarter of 1974 at the same level established for the first quarter of 1974 by Circular No. 494 of December 18, 1973, i.e., for general imports at 80 per cent of individual deposit-free imports during the second half of 1971 and for special imports at 35 per cent of quotas for 1971 (which amounted to 80 per cent of individual deposit-free imports during 1970). April 1. Circular No. 506 ruled that import permits (denuncias de importation) relating to deposit-free quo- tas granted in the first quarter of 1974 could be submit- ted to the monetary authorities through September 30. April 18. Circular No. 508 revised the regulations relating to swaps with the Central Bank. Banking insti- tutions and private f irms could sell amounts of at least US$50,000, as follows: at Ur$700 per US$1 for maturi- ties of at least 18 months but less than 24 months; at Ur$750 per US$1 for maturities of at least 24 months but less than 30 months; and at Ur$800 per US$1 for maturities of at least 30 months. The difference between the buy ing and selling rates could not exceed the equiv- alent of 6 per cent per annum denominated in domestic currency. Banking institutions which combined a for- eign currency deposit with the Central Bank with a loan in domestic currency from the Central Bank were sub- ject to a separate regime. Amounts of at least US$200,000 and deposited for a period of 180 days (renewable for additional periods of 90 days) could be sold and repurchased at Ur$750 per US$1. The Central Bank would not pay interest on the foreign currency deposit but would charge 7 per cent interest on the relevant domestic currency loans combined with for- eign currency deposits when amounting to at least US$1,500,000, or 8 per cent for smaller amounts. Cir- cular No. 410 of November 7, 1972 was revoked. April 23. Circular No. 509 revised the conditions set by Circular No. 445 of May 3, 1973 for the importa- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tion of capital goods. The m in imum external f inanc ing terms for deposit-free imports were set as follows: for imports valued at US$5,000 or less, 180 days; for im- ports between US$5,000 and US$10,000, one year; for imports between US$10,000 and US$15,000, two years; for imports between US$15,000 and US$20,000, three years, and for impor ts above US$20,000, f ive years. (Previously, the financing requirements were two years for impor ts valued at less than US$10,000 and f ive years for other imports of capital goods.) Export indus- tries now were given two years to increase their exports by an f.o.b. value equal to the c.i.f. cost of any "preferred" capital goods imported. The special import deposits applying to "nonpreferred" capital goods of LAFTA origin were raised to 450 per cent. May 3. Circular No. 512 exempted manufactured goods for technical use and spare parts for installed industrial machinery from deposit-free quotas, for amoun ts up to US$5,000 and for the period ending September 9, provided the goods were for the import- er's own use and were not resold. May 10. The prohibition imposed on December 22, 1973 on exports of various types of greasy wool was revoked by Decree No. 372/974. May 17. Circular No. 515 superseded Circular No. 433 of March 20, 1972 and Circular No. 478 of October 2, 1973. It provided that wool sobreaforos must be deposited in special bank deposits to cover any sho r t fa l ls of the actual f .o .b. value w i th respect to the aforo value {bajoaforos). Outstanding balances could be sold in the f inanc ial market twice a year, on March 31 and on September 30. Any exporter needing foreign exchange to cover bajoaforos for which he had no so- breaforos outstanding could borrow from a bank against f u t u re sobreaforos. Moreover, the exchange pro- ceeds from wool exports henceforth had to be sold in the commercial market w i th in 30 days in the case of raw and washed wool, and within 180 days in the case of combed wool. May 24. Circular No. 516 provided that the deposit- free quotas set by Circular No. 505 of April 1, 1974 could be adjusted in the light of changes in the interna- tional prices of raw materials considered essential to industrial activity. May 27. Circulars Nos. 518 and 519 reduced the exchange allocations for travel, as follows: for Argen- tina, a max imum of $a 1,000 a person a trip; for Brazil, Cr$600 a person a trip; for Paraguay and Chile, $a 1,200 or Cr$800 a person a trip; for other South American countries, up to US$15 a day, subject to a max imum of US$300 a person a t r ip; and for other destinations, up to US$20 a day, subject to a maximum of US$600 a person a trip (previously US$900 a person a trip). June 1. Following the termination of its contracts with foreign petroleum companies, ANCAP became the sole impor ter of crude petroleum. June 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Brazil came in to effec t. URUGUAY June 5. A general agreement was signed between the Central Bank of Uruguay and the Central Bank of Argen t ina. (Subsequently, imports of capital goods un- der that agreement were exempted from all import sur- charges and import duties.) June 6. Circular No. 521 set for th certain new rules pertaining to the importation of capital goods under Circular No. 509 of April 23, 1974. Henceforth, the Central Bank could provide foreign exchange for down payments of up to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value, with the m in imum f inanc ing terms applying only to the re- maining 80 per cent. Moreover, foreign exchange could be purchased 15 days prior to the day a payment obli- gation became due. June 27. Law No. 14214 increased the max imum level of tax credit certificates (reintegros) from 40 per cent to 50 per cent of export proceeds for non trad i- tional exports and to 80 per cent for new export prod- ucts. In addition to the producers, exporters became eligible for such certificates. (The law was amended by Law No. 14215 of Ju ly 11, 1974.) June 27. Law No. 14210 was enacted which ex- empted exports f rom all taxes, duties, and other cus- toms charges, with the exception of detracciones and retenciones. June 28. Circular No. 524 set the maximum rate of interest that banks could charge on foreign currency loans contracted on or after July 1 at 15.5 per cent per annum. July 3. Circular No. 526 provided that proceeds from sales of ships to be registered abroad and f rom repairs and services rendered to ships of foreign registry mustbe received in foreign exchange and must be sold in the commercial market on the first business day after re- ceipt. July 5. Circular No. 528 reduced the number of prod- ucts eligible for deposit-free quotas and set the depos- it-free import quota for the third quarter of 1974 at the same level as in the second quar ter (Circular No. 505 of April 1). July 5. Circular No. 529 stated that the Central Bank would make exchange available for the settlement of certain commercial arrears. July 19. Circular No. 530 set the maximum rate of interest on loans in foreign currency contracted on or after July 22 at 16.5 per cent. July 19. The retenciones on the proceeds f rom exports of beef were reduced substantially. A fu r ther large re- duction occurred on August 9. These measures were introduced with retroactive effect on September 12 by Decrees Nos. 725 /974, 726 /974, 727 /974, and 728/974, which also established new retenciones tor the period beg inn ing September 2. July 26. With effect from August 12, Law No. 14244 modified the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 14179) and introduced a tax of 40 per cent on p ro f it remittances, which was applicable to any amount remitted in any given year in excess of 20 per cent of eligible capital (original capital plus reinvested profits); 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY for the purpose of profit remittances, the law extended the definition of a foreign enterprise to include invest- ments equivalent to less than 50 per cent of the capital of local companies (when specified by the Executive, acting on the advice of the Bureau of Planning and Budget). The Law permitted short-term domestic bor- rowing by foreign enterprises. Existing foreign compa- nies could register under the revised terms within 180 days after July 26. August 1. The trade agreement signed with the EEC on April 2, 1973 came into force. It had been approved by Law No. 14223 of July 11, 1974. August 9. Decree No. 613/974 of August 12 revised the definitions of gross and net weight for customs valuation purposes. August 20. Circular No. 537 approved payment of interest by the Central Bank as compensation for de- lays in the delivery of foreign exchange under transac- tions involving an exchange rate guarantee (Circular No. 248). Also, the new circular amended Circular No. 394 to state that it was understood that no delay existed provided the Central Bank delivered the ex- change within a mon th after the due date (or after the date of the final authorization, if the latter was later than the due date). August 20. A treaty and a protocol were signed with Argentina. They provided for the progressive elimina- tion of customs duties and nontariff barriers on trade between the two countries, except for agricultural prod- ucts. August 22. Circular No. 541 established the condi- tions for the utilization of the agreement with Argen- tina providing a credit of US$50 million for imports of capital goods. September 12. With effect from October 1, the re- tenciones on the proceeds from wool exports were re- duced substantially by Decree No. 720/974. For wool tops, an export subsidy of about Ur$650 per kilogram was granted in addition. September 24. Circular No. 549 set the max imum interest rate on loans denominated in foreign currency at 16.5 per cent. September 24. Circular No. 551 liberalized access to the financial market w i th effect from September 25. Foreign currency could be bought and sold freely in that market, by residents and nonresidents, without identification of buyer, seller, or beneficiary. As a re- sult, the existing exchange restrictions on current invisi- bles (including travel expenses and profit remittances) and on outward capital transfers (including purchases of Uruguayan U.S. dollar-denominated treasury bonds) were abolished. The exchange rate in the f inan- cial market henceforth would be determined by supply and demand, w i thout any official intervention. It de- preciated initially to about Ur$3,000 per U.S. dollar, but appreciated subsequently. The exchange houses re- mained closed. Banks and banking houses had to sell their overbought financial market positions periodi- cally in that market. Their financial market and com- 514 mercial market positions were consolidated into a sin- gle general exchange position. October 7. Circular No. 554 set the deposit-free im- port quota for the fourth quarter of 1974 at the same level as in the second and third quarters. (Subse- quently, these arrangements were continued virtually unchanged for the first quarter of 1975, by Circular No. 587.) October 7. Circular No. 555 provided for increases in the deposit-free quotas for raw materials and certain other essential goods, in response to increased prices abroad. Applications could be submitted until Decem- ber 31. October 10. Decree No. 808/974 was issued, con- taining implementing regulations for Foreign Invest- ment Laws Nos. 14179 and 14244. October 10. Decree No. 794/974 reduced the import surcharges of 60, 90, 150, 225, and 300 per cent to 55, 75, 120, 150, and 200 per cent. October 18. Circular No. 557 authorized the Central Bank to auction a deposit-free allocation of US$625,000 for "luxury" imports required for the tour- ist industry. October 23. Circular No. 560 created a Fund for the Financing of Nontraditional Exports. November 25. Circular No. 575 revised the regula- tions for swaps. Banking institutions and private firms could sell foreign currency in amounts of at least US$100,000 at Ur$l ,150 per US$1, for maturities of at least 12 months but less than 18 months; at Ur$ 1,400 per US$ 1 for maturities of at least 18 months but less than 24 months, and at Ur$ 1,700 per US$1 for maturi- ties of at least 24 months. The difference between the buying and selling rates could not exceed the equivalent of 34 per cent per annum denominated in domestic currency for contracts of at least 12 months, 26 per cent for contracts of at least 18 months, and 22 per cent for contracts of 24 months or more. December 9. Circular No. 582 extended the system whereby sobreaforos had to be deposited in special ac- counts to various wool by-products. December 9. Decree No. 958/974 exempted imports of capital goods under the credit agreement with Ar- gentina from consular fees, surcharges, and import taxes. December 19. The full or partial exemptions from the 18 per cent additional import tax, which had been granted on goods with a recargooi 10 per cent or less by Decree No. 1115/973 of December 28, 1973, were extended through June 30, 1975 (Decree No. 1018/974). NOTES 1 On March 1, 1967, a new Central Bank was established but some operations are still being carried out on its behalf by the Bank of the Republic. The term "monetary authori- ties" as used here refers to both banks taken together. 2 On April 9, 1975 it was announced that with effect from Ju ly 1, 1975 the 180-day foreign financing requirement for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pr iva te sector imports would be eliminated, as well as the system of vo lun tary peso deposits in the Central Bank, which served to guarantee the exchange rate for the importer dur ing most of th is period. W i th effect f rom April 14, 1975, p r iva te sector impo r te rs were required to lodge w i th the Central Bank a prior deposit of 35 per cent of the c . i .f. value of impor ts, to be retained for f ive mon ths. The system of depos- it-free quotas was eliminated on June 1, 1975. 3 These charges are equivalent to 11.55 per cent, 5.50 per cent, 2.75 per cent, and 5.775 per cent, respectively. The charges were reduced on March 9, 1975 and April 10, 1975, and had to be settled in pesos at the Bank of the Republic. URUGUAY 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Venezuelan Bolivar. No transactions take place at the par value. Exchange transactions take place at the fol- lowing rates.1 The Central Bank of Venezuela pur- chases proceeds of the petroleum and iron ore exporting companies at the rate of Bs 4.20 per US$1. Any proceeds from exports of cacao and coffee that are offered for sale to the Central Bank must be purchased by it at the rate of Bs 4.285 per US$1. The Central Bank sells exchange to the Government and its agencies and to the commercial banks (for sales to the public only) at Bs 4.285 per US$1.2 The commercial banks purchase foreign exchange from the public at rates close to Bs 4.28 per US$1. Commercial banks must sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.30 per US$1 for all transactions; foreign banks may only sell foreign exchange that has not been ob- tained from the Central Bank. Some foreign exchange is also negotiated on the two stock exchanges, where buying and selling rates usually are slightly below Bs 4.30 per US$1. Exchange houses are permitted to deal only in banknotes, coins, and travelers checks. The Central Bank offers swap facilities under which it buys U.S. dollars at Bs 4.27 and resells at Bs 4.30 after 180 days. Administration of Control There is no exchange control mechanism. Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, depending on the commod- ity; for certain agricultural products, the prior approval of the Agricultural Marketing Corporation must be obtained before applications for export licenses are sub- mitted to these ministries. Under the terms of an agree- ment between the Government and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that a sub- sidy is applied to imports of wheat for human con- sumption and to certain exports of coffee and cacao. The Superintendency of Foreign Investments (SiEx) is charged with the supervision over foreign investment in Venezuela. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Venezuela and Argentina, Chile, Colombia, the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Peru, and Uruguay may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of the countries con- cerned. 516 Imports and Import Payments The import of certain goods is either prohibited or reserved for the Government; these include fully assem- bled automobiles, certain textiles, coffee, citrus fruit, bananas, pineapples, melons, salt, opium, cigarette pa- per, natural pearls, and matches. In addition, a few other commodities require import licenses; quantitative restrictions applicable irrespective of origin are main- tained on these items for protective purposes. Licenses are valid for all countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the quan- tity import (contingentamiento). All other commodities are free from import licensing. Wheat for human consumption is imported by the Agricultural Marketing Corporation and receives a subsidy of 25.55 per cent of the f.o.b. value, calculated at Bs 4.30 per US$1. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Import payments may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; pri- vate sector purchases of exchange for this purpose are made from commercial banks or exchange houses. Transfers of profits and dividends are limited in princi- ple to 14 per cent per annum of registered foreign capi- tal. Resident and nonresident travelers must on departure pay a travel tax of Bs 80 a person a trip; exemptions exist for children under seven, foreign tour- ists, Venezuelan and foreign diplomats, and personnel of international organizations. Travelers may freely ex- port domestic and foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain furs and hides, scrap metals, and a few other commodities are prohibited. Licenses are required for the exportation of many other commodi- ties. Most export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Development, but those for coffee, cacao, rice, and sugar are granted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. Exports of products containing subsidized imported wheat are subject to special arrangements to ensure that the subsidy received is repaid. The export of gold and precious stones requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting companies must surrender to the Central Bank export proceeds, to the extent of their local currency requirements (includ- ing taxes), at a rate of Bs 4.20 per US$1. Otherwise, there are no surrender requirements for export pro- ceeds or other exchange receipts. Exporters of coffee and cacao may (but need not) sell exchange proceeds ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to the Central Bank at Bs 4.285 per US$1; they may receive an export subsidy calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from falling below specified minimum amounts regardless of external prices for these products. Eligibil- ity for this subsidy is maintained even if the exchange proceeds are not surrendered. In principle, the benefit of these arrangements based on guaranteed minimum prices may be extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. Nontraditional exports are eligible for freely negotiable tax certificates, as an ex- port incentive, provided that the value added nationally is at least 30 per cent. All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are pro- hibited, as are exports of petroleum and military equip- ment to the People's Republic of China and North Korea. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely dispos- able. Travelers may freely import domestic and foreign currency, with the exception that the Currency Law prohibits the importation for commercial purposes of foreign coins other than gold coins. The importation of Venezuelan gold coins is reserved for the Central Bank. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are permit- ted freely. Brokerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mutual funds is prohibited. Foreign capital imported for in- vestment purposes and all foreign credits must be regis- tered with the Superintendency of Foreign Invest- ments. The Central Bank regulates bank credit to non- residents and companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. The General Banking Law of December 30, 1970 (as amended on Septem- ber 7, 1974) authorizes the Government to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 40 per cent owned by nonresident or foreign physical per- sons or companies. This law also provides special regu- lations for foreign banks operating in Venezuela. Gold Venezuelan gold coins are legal tender but do not circulate. Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and investment pur- poses. The Central Bank does not deal in gold with the public, but gold coins, medallions, and bars are freely negotiated between licensed importers, exchange houses, and the public. Commercial banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents but do not normally deal in gold with the public. Imports and exports of monetary gold are re- served for the Central Bank, as is the import of gold coins that are legal tender in Venezuela. Other imports VENEZUELA and exports of gold require licenses. Imports require licenses from the Ministry of Finance and in certain cases also from the Ministry of Development, while exports are licensed by the Ministry of Finance only. The law prescribes a license for all imports and exports of gold by anyone not registered at the Ministry of Development as an industrial user, but in practice im- ports and exports by private persons are permitted free of license. Imports of gold coins and of gold bars and ingots weighing more than 12 kilograms are free of customs duty; all other gold imports are subject to duty at varying rates. All imports of nonmonetary gold are subject to consular duties ranging from 2 per cent to 3V2 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1974 January 1. As a signatory to the Cartagena Agree- ment, Venezuela became a member of the Andean Group. February 5. Presidential Decree No. 1577 of Janu- ary 23, 1974 was published, which revoked with effect from February 6 the 30 per cent customs surcharge ("Antillian duties") on imports from certain neighbor- ing countries. February 8. Presidential Decree No. 1588 of Febru- ary 6 was published, which contained implementing regulations for the tax certificate scheme for nontradi- tional exports. March 17. It was announced that the petroleum in- dustry would be nationalized. March 22. Presidential Decree No. 1647 of March 7 was published, which implemented the law creating the Export Finance Fund. April 2. Decree No. 29 made exports of sugar subject to license. April 29. For the implementation of Decision No. 24 of the Cartagena Agreement, Decree No. 62 of April 28 specified the industries in which no new direct foreign investment in Venezuela was permitted. For- eign companies operating in these sectors had to trans- form into national companies, for which purpose they must put on sale at least 80 per cent of their shares for acquisition by national investors in a period of not more than three years from May 1, 1974. The sectors of insurance, commercial banking, and other financial institutions would continue to be governed by the spe- cial laws in force, but SIEX (see next entry) would have certain powers with respect to the representation of national investors in the management of the companies concerned. April 29. For the implementation of Decisions Nos. 24, 37, 37-A, and 70 of the Cartagena Agreement, Decree No. 63 of April 28 created the Superinten- dency of Foreign Investments (SlEx) in the Ministry of Development, set out its functions, and specified cer- tain provisions henceforth applicable to the following: direct foreign investment, reinvestment of profits, utili- zation of foreign and local credit, transformation of 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA foreign corporations into national or mixed corpora- tions, importation of technology and use and exploita- tion of patents and trademarks, and transfer of profits to foreign investors. The Decree also provided a defini- tion of direct foreign investment. Among the duties of SIEX was that of maintaining a Registry of Foreign Investments and a registry of approved contracts with regard to imports of technology, as well as trademarks, patents, licenses, and royalties. Companies which have foreign investors as stockholders, partners, or partici- pants, would only be able to distribute dividends, or remit these abroad, on foreign owners' holdings in amounts not exceeding annually 14 per cent of the foreign authorized and registered investment (after de- duction of the tax on dividends). The Ministry of De- velopment issued various implementing regulations on May 14. April 29. A Central Bank Resolution revoked the "exception clause" which had provided that the pro- ceeds from exports of petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts could not be received over the accounts maintained under reciprocal credit agreements with LAFTA countries. April 30. The President announced that foreign com- panies operating in Venezuela would have to be trans- formed into national companies through the sale of 80 per cent of their shares to Venezuelan investors. May 1. It was announced that the iron ore industry would be nationalized. On December 7 it was stated that this would occur on January 1, 1975. May 14. Decree No. 86 (subsequently completed by Decree No. 308 of August 6) revised the 1973 customs tariff to bring it into line with the Nabandina nomen- clature. June 11. Decree No. 151 created the Venezuelan In- vestment Fund, which among other things, was to make investments abroad and develop programs of in- ternational financial cooperation. June 11. Decree No. 173 prohibited iron ore conces- sionary companies from selling, transferring, mortgag- ing, destroying, or modifying any asset subject to nationalization without prior authorization. June 14. Decree No. 179 charged the Agricultural Marketing Corporation with the importation and ex- portation, direct or through third parties, of specified commodities. These included cotton, coffee, cacao, to- bacco, rice, and sugar. June 14. Decree No. 181 gave the Agricultural Mar- keting Corporation a monopoly over the importation of powdered milk. June 17. A SIEX Resolution authorized for 90 days all foreign borrowing contracts or foreign lines of credit to be agreed by companies operating in Venezuela with foreign banks or financial institutions and with head offices or affiliates abroad, provided that such contracts were immediately notified to SIEX for registration and that their maturity did not exceed 180 days. Renewals of existing borrowing contracts or lines of credit were also authorized, provided the renewal did not exceed 518 180 days. After the 90-day validity of the authoriza- tions given in this Resolution, all foreign borrowing contracts or lines of credit would require authorization and registration. (Another authorization for certain foreign borrowing was issued on October 2.) July 2. Decree No. 216 established terms and proce- dures for the registration of foreign investments in Ven- ezuela. July 25. A Central Bank Resolution of July 19 was published, which fixed the interest rate to be charged by commercial banks to enterprises over 50 per cent of whose capital belongs directly or indirectly, jointly or individually, to foreign companies. July 30. Decree No. 291 revised the by-laws of the Export Finance Fund. August 6. Decree No. 308 eliminated import quotas for some 80 tariff items, mostly foodstuffs, and autho- rized the modification and elimination of the quotas applied to several other items. August 12. SIEX issued instructions for the registra- tion of foreign investments in Venezuela as at Decem- ber 31, 1973 and of technology contracts existing prior to April 29, 1974. It was also announced that (1) all companies with foreign capital in Venezuela must re- ceive prior authorization before October 29, 1974 from SIEX before they could register for operations in Vene- zuela; (2) any reductions or increases in assets of com- panies with foreign capital must be authorized by SIEX; and (3) bearer securities of such companies must be converted to registered securities before January 1, 1975. Insurance companies, commercial banks, and other financial institutions remained subject to the special Venezuelan legislation governing each, but SIEX could prescribe the participation of national investors in their technical, commercial, and administrative management in accordance with the shares held in their capital pur- suant to the laws concerned. August 20. Decree No. 346 was issued implementing the Export Incentives Law of September 28, 1973. Fur- ther implementing decrees (Nos. 376, 377, and 379) were issued on September 3. August 30. Decree No. 338 provided that the Naban- dina customs tariff would come into force on Septem- ber 29. Decree No. 339 was published containing the "internal" tariff applicable to countries of the Andean Group. September 2. Decree No. 343 of August 20 came into force, which amended the General Banking Law. September 5. SIEX announced the documentation to be submitted in order to obtain approval and registra- tion of foreign investments made in Venezuela on or after January 1, 1974. September 5. A resolution of SIEX regulated the transfer of shares in Venezuelan companies. Certain transfers between foreign investors were generally per- mitted. September 13. Decree No. 352 of September 3 came into force, which regulated the new Customs Law. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution September 18. Decree No. 365 created a Registry of Industrial Projects in the Ministry of Development and provided that all projects for the establishment of new industrial plants or the expansion of existing plants must be registered with it. October 31. The Central Bank was nationalized. November 7. Decree No. 2240 provided that with effect from January 1, 1975 bills of lading for imports would no longer require a consular visa or consular stamp. November 10. Government Instruction No. 7 pro- vided that the public authorities could sign insurance contracts only with companies 90 per cent of whose capital is held by Venezuelans. November 21. The closing date for registration of foreign investments in accordance with Decision 24 of the Andean Pact, which previously had been changed from June 30 to October 29, was extended to Decem- ber 30, 1974. November 26. A new Central Bank Law (Decree No. 507 of October 30) was published. Among other things, the Central Bank was empowered to conduct a flexible exchange rate policy. VENEZUELA November 28. Exports of coffee of the 1973 and 1974 crops were suspended. December 14. An agreement was signed with the Central American countries and Panama providing for partial payment in local currencies for Venezuelan pe- troleum. Another agreement provided for Venezuelan financial support to Central American stockpiling of coffee. December 16. Decree No. 580 reserved the iron ore m in ing indus t ry for the State and revoked with effect from December 31 the concessions that had been granted by the National Executive. NOTES 1 The exchange rates given (except those for the Central Bank's swap transac t ions) are those applicable to sight draf ts on New York. 2 The Central Bank does not sell foreign exchange to the pub l ic but does sell m inor amoun ts to its staff and certain government officials, at the Bs 4.30 rate, for travel expenses and personal remittances. 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM1 (Position on January 1,1975) of the law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negotiable between nonresident foreigners. Imports and Import Payments The bulk of imports comes under one of three head- ings: (1) imports financed with funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID); (2) im- ports financed from Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country-financed imports," i.e., imports financed with loans or grants from France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, or other countries. Products imported under the AID programs or under third-country assistance may be financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange when the specific approval of the Minister of Trade and Supply is ob- tained. Many imports are prohibited. Imports financed by the U.S. AID programs require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. Imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign ex- change or by third countries are subject to import cer- tificates; these are issued by authorized commercial banks, endorsed by the National Bank, and checked a posteriori by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. Import certificates are valid for six months. Goods eligible for import with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange are lim- ited to those included in a list issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply; imports by end-users of capital goods or raw materials not included in the list may be effected after approval by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. Some imports are permitted without foreign ex- change (sans Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The exchange rate structure is based on the official rate which is adjusted from time to time; on December 31, 1974 the rate stood at VN$685 per US$1. Foreign exchange transactions are subject to two commissions totaling about 2 per cent. Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks. Authorized banks are allowed to en- gage in forward buying or selling of foreign exchange in the domestic or foreign exchange markets, but only in relation to payments for imports and only in certain specified currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Viet-Nam (Directorate-General of Exchange). Most remittances must have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to ap- prove some payments for private invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply, and import and export certificates by authorized com- mercial banks. Prescription of Currency Payments must normally be effected in one of the currencies specified and quoted by the National Bank.2 Receipts may be accepted either in those currencies or in any other convertible currency, provided that prior to repatriation such other currencies are converted into a currency quoted by the National Bank. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts w i th banks, subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts in Free Piastres may be freely credited with the proceeds from the sale of convertible exchange and may be freely debited for most payments to residents. A category of nonresident accounts, Capital Ac- counts, covers piastres owned by nonresident foreign- ers that may not be transferred abroad. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment. Their use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-Gen- eral of Exchange. Investments financed from Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see section on Capital, below), and pro- ceeds from the liquidation of such investments are cred- ited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of Economy has declared them eligible for the privileges raw materials imported by end-users; some imports of raw materials by end-users are subject to a 50 per cent advance payment. The settlement of all impor ts, except petroleum products and fertilizers, financed w i th Viet-NanVs own fore ign exchange takes place at the official exchange rate prevailing at the time of the utilization of the letter of credit. A special subsidy of VNS60 per US$1 is paid on goods imported under the Commercial Import Pro- gram (CIP), on impor ts of wheat f lour and cotton un- der U.S. P.L. 480, and on petroleum products and fe r t i l ize rs imported against f ree foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require approval by the Directorate-General of Exchange. Students approved by a special commission are granted US$80 a month for s tudy in the Republic of China or Hong Kong and US$150 a mon th for study elsewhere; they are also gran ted allocations for tu i t ion and medical fees and for ex traord inary expenses. Students participating in short-term t ra in ing courses abroad are gran ted up to US$130 a month. Foreign specialists employed in Viet- Nam may t rans fer up to 50 per cent of their salary every mon th, but not more than US$600 a month. In principle, foreign firms are generally permitted to transfer up to 70 per cent of their net annual profit after tax, a f ter examination of their accounts and af ter de- duction of any losses in previous years. Profit transfers by foreign enterprises established or expanded between February 14, 1963 and June 2, 1972 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the provi- sions of that law unless they meet the requirements of the "Foreign Exchange Working Capital System" (see section on Capital, below). Although dividends de- clared in Viet-Nam and accruing to nonresidents and foreign residents may in principle be transferred abroad, under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law transfers of profits and dividends are limited to 20 per cent annua l ly of the declared capital. Net annual prof i ts after tax from projects covered by the new Investment Law, Law No. 4 / 7 2, may be transferred w i thout limit. Each resident authorized to travel abroad is entitled to purchase the fo l low ing amounts of foreign exchange at the official rate: travelers to the Khmer Republic and Laos US$30 a day, w i th a maximum of US$300 a per- son a trip, and travelers to other countries US$40 a day, w i th a max imum of US$2,400 a person a trip. The allocations mentioned may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign banknotes. Travelers are permitted to take with them up to VN$5,000 in Viet- namese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by fo r- eign travelers may be re-exported. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports require a certificate issued by an autho- rized commercial bank which is responsible for the re- patriation of the foreign exchange. Some goods, mainly VIET-NAM scrap and certain products containing imported raw materials, require a license issued by the Ministry of Trade and Supply. A few commodities are exempt from certificates or permits. All exports to communist countries, exports to any destination of manufactured or semimanufactured products originally imported into Viet-Nam, gold, rice, rice products, and certain other items are prohibited; the prohibition does not apply to imported goods that have been processed in Viet-Nam, provided that the value added corresponds to, or ex- ceeds, a specified proportion of the export price. Ex- porters are allowed to retain in EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts 10 per cent of their total export proceeds for the settlement of inciden- tal expenses related to the export transaction. Exports enjoy subsidies on the basis of the repatriated export value in terms of Vietnamese piastres. Proceeds from In visibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate. A traveler entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange and up to VN$5,000 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreign military and civilian personnel (government officials) must surrender on ar- rival any foreign banknotes they bring into Viet-Nam. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formalities, but foreign investors must register their capital with the Vietnamese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to repatriate their capital and to transfer profits. Under the Investment Law of 1963, special benefits could be accorded to new foreign investments in those sectors of the economy that are given high priority. The minimum investment in agriculture was established at VN$0.5 million, and in industry at VN$1 million. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertak- ings covered by the law were exempt from customs duties. Foreign technicians employed by these enter- prises were exempt from income tax for 2 years. For- eign investments were free of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments were not subject to any national- ization measures for the first 15 years from the date of the written authorization granted to the investor; they were accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic investments. The law provided for the trans- fer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital, and for the repatriation of the original investment after 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent if the capital was newly imported (after 20 years for investment of foreign-owned capital previ- ously held in Viet-Nam). A new Investment Law promulgated on June 2, 1972 has superseded the Investment Law of 1963. The provisions of the 1963 law, however, are still applicable to the enterprises which were governed by them. Under 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM the new law, which mainly adds new fiscal benefits to the provisions of the 1963 law, fiscal incentives are granted to new investments whether financed in Viet- namese currency or in foreign exchange brought from abroad, provided that (1) the investments are made in a "priority sector" and (2) that the initial capital is over VN$10 million in the primary sector and over VN$20 million in the secondary and tertiary sectors. Besides fiscal exemptions the foreign enterprises enjoying the benefits of the law are authorized (1) to transfer abroad total net annual profits and (2) to repatriate after five years of operation the capital invested, in annual in- stallments of 20 per cent. Investments not covered by either Investment Law nor by the regime described in the following paragraph are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, which nor- mally authorizes the transfer of up to 70 per cent of net annual profits after taxes but does not permit disinvest- ment; such investments are not eligible for the above-mentioned tax exemptions. Under a "Foreign Exchange Working Capital Sys- tem," foreign capital imported in the form of direct investment or as medium-term and long-term credit in cash or in kind may be registered with the National Bank and treated as follows. Capital must be brought from abroad and sold through authorized banks, where it is credited to a "Foreign Exchange Working Ac- count." Profits, dividends, and interest on such capital may be transferred annua l ly up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the registered amount and repatriation may be made up to an annual maximum of 25 per cent of the registered capital. Imports and exports of capital are made at the off i- cial rate. Gold Within Viet-Nam, the holding of gold and all trans- actions in gold are subject to licensing, but the controls are not rigidly enforced and unlicensed holdings of gold by individuals are tolerated. Only the National Bank is empowered to import and export gold. All domestic transactions in gold are subject to a luxu ry tax of 10 per cent on the sale value or the manu fac tu r ing cost. The export of gold by physical or juridical persons other than the National Bank is prohibited. The import of gold by physical or juridical persons other than the National Bank is also prohibited, w i th the following exceptions: (1) Vietnamese settled in Laos may, when returning to Viet-Nam, bring in up to 13 taels3 of gold in the form of jewelry; (2) residents may import gold without allocation of foreign exchange, provided that they have an import license and pay a customs duty of 130 per cent; (3) nonresidents may, w i thout allocation of foreign exchange, bring into Viet-Nam any quan t i ty of gold, provided that its en try is declared and that it is deposited in safe custody with an authorized bank; the utilization of such gold is subject to prior authoriza- 522 tion by the Directorate-General of Exchange, and if it is sold in Viet-Nam, the sales proceeds must be credited to a Capital Account. Changes during 1974 January 4. The official exchange rate was changed from VN$550 to VN$560 per US$1. The special ex- change rate applicable to certain imports financed un- der programs of the U.S. AID was changed from VN$455 to VN$465 per US$1. January 12. Decision No. 12 /BTMKN abolished all exchange subsidies for exports, with the exception of the special export subsidy for new exports of VN$25 per US$1, which would expire automatically. Exporters henceforth received an interest rate subsidy (equivalent to three months' interest at an annual rate of 26 per cent) on the local currency value of the adjusted f.o.b. export value declared on the export registration. This subsidy was paid by the Export Financing Fund in the National Bank. January 12. Notice No. 10/BTMKN abolished the equalization taxes (taxes de perequation) on commodi- ties of non-U.S. origin imported under the CIP. January 12. Communique No. 2 /BTMKN abol- ished, w i th effect from January 14, the advance deposit of VN$100 per US$1 for all CIP import license applica- tions and replaced the special exchange rate applicable to CIP imports by a flat subsidy of VN$85 per US$1 on the customs value of imports, payable after customs clearance. The local currency value of the import trans- action henceforth was calculated at the official ex- change rate on the day of the opening of the letter of credit. January 28. Notice No. 8 /BTMKN announced the procedures for utilizing a loan from the Republic of China in the amount of about US$5 million. February 3. The official exchange rate was changed from VN$560 to VN$575 per US$1. February 6. Notice No. 12/BTMKN announced the procedures to be followed in utilizing French aid and loans in a total amount of about US$20 million. February 9. Communique No. 13/BTMKN an- nounced that, with effect from February 11, the local currency value of all import transactions under the CIP would be calculated at the exchange rate on the day of settlement abroad. February 12. National Bank Circular No. 16/ 152/017-D directed commercial banks not to finance more than 50 per cent of any import transaction of items on Import Lists A and B, and to refrain entirely from financing import transactions of items on Import Lists C and D. Excepted from this directive were trans- actions financed by U.S. aid. February 20. Order No. 63 /BTMKN extended the import credit procedure previously applicable only to import transactions financed with free foreign ex- change, to all import transactions financed with foreign aid or loans, except U.S. aid or loans. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 22. Decree No. 34 established an Exchange Council, consisting of the Minister of Finance as chair- man and the Minister of Trade and Indu s t ry and the Governor of the National Bank as members. The Coun- cil was empowered to decide all matters concerning exchange rate policy and the operation of the exchange market, including the special subsidies. March 3. The official exchange rate was changed from VN$575 to VN$590 per US$1. The special sub- sidy for CIP impor ts was reduced f rom VN$85 to VN$60 per US$1 of customs value. March 11. Communique No. 2 /B TMKN an- nounced tha t, with effect f rom March 15, all letters of credit under the CIP must be opened within 15 days of the approval of the license and have a maximum valid- ity of one year. Upon opening the letter of credit, im- porters were required to lodge a 30 per cent margin deposit. Impor ts of fer t i l izer and of mach inery for ap- proved industrial projects were exempt. March 23. Notice No. 34 /BTMKN provided that importers using the import credit procedure would be charged the full local currency value of the import transaction, calculated at the exchange rate on the date of the settlement of the transaction abroad. The amount of the deposit under the import credit proce- dure would be credited toward f inal settlement of the impor ter's local currency obligation. Letters of credit opened under the import credit procedure would henceforth have a validity period of up to four mon ths if the supplier country was located in Asia, and up to six months if the supplier country was located else- where. March 24. The official exchange rate was changed f rom VN$590 to VN$605 per US$1. April 5. In order to compensate exporters of f ish products, timber products, tea, glass products, and ve- hicle tires for the increase in fuel costs, the bank interest rate subsidy for these exports was raised to the equiva- lent of six months' interest at an annual rate of 26 per cent; this increased subsidy would expire on Ju ly 4, 1974, when the old subsidy would again app ly. April 24. The official exchange rate was changed f rom VN$605 to VN$620 per US$1. July 5. The official exchange rate was changed f rom VN$620 to VN$630 per US$1. July 5. Imports of refined sugar and of 55 nonessen- tial items, inc lud ing textiles, were suspended. July 5. The requirement of a margin deposit of 30 per cent on letters of credit for CIP-financed impor ts was abolished and replaced by a bank credit measure. July 5. Communique No. 62 /BTMKN announced that for machinery and spare parts letters of credit for imports under the CIP could be exceptionally validated for an additional six months after the first year of valid- ity set by Communique No. 2 /BTMKN. A similar measure was announced for impor ts of mach inery and spare parts settled w i th free foreign exchange. July 19. Communique No. 6 7 /BTMKN modified the conditions under which products on the dual fi- VIET-NAM nancing list could be imported with free foreign ex- change. Before being authorized to import on this basis, importers had to show that the items concerned were not listed, or not available, under current program loans f rom the Republic of China, France, Japan, or the United States. No transaction could exceed US$5,000. July 24. Circular No. 16 /816 /063 D informed com- mercial banks that (1) imports of goods on Lists A and B and settled w i th free foreign exchange could be fi- nanced up to 50 per cent; (2) impor ts effected under the CIP or under other fore ign aid ( f rom the Republic of China, France, or Japan) could be f inanced up to 80 per cent; and (3) impor ts of fertilizers, petroleum products, machinery for approved projects, and chemicals for pesticides could be financed up to 100 per cent. In addition, the circular abolished the guarantee deposit of 30 per cent required against letters of credit for impor ts effected under the CIP and other fo re ign aid. July 25. Decree-Law No. 251 amended Order No. 4 9 4 / B K T / B T C / N D / LB (November 15, 1971) regarding impor ts w i th free fore ign exchange. Impor ts of petroleum products and fertilizers would not be sub- ject to the immediate payment of the counterpart in piastres of the amount of foreign exchange allocated by the National Bank. Commercial banks were required to pay the coun terpart in piastres to the National Bank when the payment in fore ign exchange was effected, and at the exchange ra te preva i l ing at that time. How- ever, for petroleum products the exchange ra te applied was that prevailing at the time of the opening of the letter of credit. July 25. Decision No. 2 5 2 /BTMKN amended Deci- sion No. 7 7 /BTMKN (March 4, 1974). The bank in- terest ra te subsidy for exports was set at the equ iva lent of four mon ths' in teres t, at an annual rate of 30 per cent, on the f .o .b. value. July 25. Decision No. 253 /BTMKN reinstated the special bank interest rate subsidy, at the equivalent of six months' interest at an annual rate of 30 per cent, for exports of fish produc ts (including f ish sauce), t imber products, tea, glass, and tires. August 5. Circular No. 1421 informed authorized banks tha t, subject to prior au thor iza t ion by the U.S. AID, transpor ta t ion of CIP imports by non-U.S. cargo ships would be permitted in cases where no U.S. vessel was available. August 22. Commun ique No. 7 0 /BTMKN banned temporar i ly the import of a number of commodities, including f r u it and vegetable products, vegetable oil, margarine and fa ts, sugar and candy, paper and paper- board, cigarettes, clothes and hats, used garments, watches, and precious stones. August 22. The list of temporarily banned imports was extended to include the following commodities: air-conditioners and parts; refrigerators; water heaters (other than electric); dishwashing machines; air dryers and hum id if iers; and household electrical appliances. December 24. Interministerial Order No. 452 pro- vided that with effect f rom Janua ry 1, 1975 all trade 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM transactions would be subject to the control of the Ministry of Trade and Supply. The order set out rules governing the activities of importers and exporters and introduced a certificate for imports settled with free foreign exchange and for all exports other than those of scrap and processed imported raw materials. December 24. Interministerial Order No. 453 speci- fied the conditions under which import and export cer- tificates could be issued, their period of validity, and the regulations pertaining to the payment of counter- part funds for imports financed with free foreign ex- change. December 27. National Bank Notice No. 108 listed 14 currencies which could be used in foreign transac- tions. These currencies were Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian dollars, Netherlands guilders, pounds ster- ling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. (Circular No. 132/1/01-D of January 8, 1975, which gave details on the implementation of Notice No. 108, omitted the Belgian franc from the list of prescribed currencies.) December 28. Communique No. 101 gave additional instructions governing imports settled with free foreign exchange. Certificates would be issued by banks, which would be held responsible for the enforcement of the regulations. Advance deposits on imports were abol- ished. The new list of products eligible for import with free foreign exchange by commercial importers was at- tached; items not included were to be considered as banned temporarily. December 29. National Bank Notice No. 109 gave further details regarding the implementation of the new trade regulations. The following changes came into effect at the begin- ning of 1975: January 1. The new import regime introduced by Interministerial Orders Nos. 452 and 453 came into operation. Order No. 01 listed the banks authorized to issue import or export certificates. NOTES 1 In view of certain changes that took place on January 1, 1975, this survey presents the position on that date. 2 Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Malaysian dollars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 One tael equals about 37.57 grams. 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System No par value for the Western Samoa Tala has been established with the Fund. A central rate of WS$1 = US$1.67736 has been established, corresponding to 1.23565 grams of fine gold per WS$1. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar and Western Samoa avails itself of wider margins. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance operating as the exchange control authority; the Minister may delegate his approval au tho r i ty to the Financial Secretary, who in tu rn may delegate part of his powers to authorized banks. All paymen ts to non- residents of Western Samoa require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. The M in is t ry, however, has dele- gated to the Bank of Western Samoa, the only autho- rized bank, au tho r i ty to approve certain paymen ts up to any amount and certain other payments up to speci- fied amounts. Prescription of Currency Western Samoa has ceased fo be a Scheduled Terri- to ry in terms of the U .K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Most settlements w i th Sterling Area ter- ritories take place in Sterling Area currencies, but there are no prescriptions as to the currencies in which pay- ments to or from nonresidents of Western Samoa must be made or received. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of resi- dents and nonresidents of Western Samoa. Imports and Import Payments The import of a few commodities is prohibited f rom all sources for reasons of security or health. Other com- modities may be imported f rom any source. Each li- censed commercial impor ter receives an annual allocation of foreign exchange, to be taken up on a quarterly basis, which may be used freely for the import of any commodity that is not prohibited, except auto- mobiles. The allocations are made by the M in i s t ry of Finance and communicated to the Bank of Western Samoa; the latter au toma t ica l ly provides the foreign exchange required for import payments upon submis- sion of documen tary evidence. Persons who are not licensed impor ters may import any commodity free ly up to WS$100 a person a year but require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for imports of higher value. The import of motor vehicles, other than for exclusive use in p lan ta t ion wo rk, requires an ad- vance deposit of 50 per cent of the retail value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain invisibles, such as overseas con- tractual obligations and insurance, are approved auto- matically by the Bank of Western Samoa up to any amount or w i th in limits determined by the Ministry of Finance. Payments in excess of these limits as well as payments for all other invisibles require the prior ap- proval of the M in is t ry of Finance. Remittances in re- spect of s tudy abroad are freely authorized. The Ministry of Finance approves up to any amount the transfer of genuine income derived locally from pen- sions, rents, interests, and dividends by persons perma- nen t ly resident overseas. Residents trave l ing to American Samoa, whether for business or private pur- poses, are entitled to a foreign currency allowance equivalent to US$50 a person a quar ter; an additional allowance of US$15 a day is provided to cover hotel expenses. The basic travel allowance for other countries is equivalent to WS$10 a person a day, subject to a limit of WS$ 1,000. The Ministry of Finance grants supple- men ta ry allocations when evidence of genuine need is provided. Resident t rave le r s, may take out foreign banknotes, as part of their foreign currency allowance, up to WS$20 a person a trip. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out any amount in domestic cur- rency. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r tua l ly all exports require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance. Exports may be prohibited by the Director of Agriculture on grounds of low quality, or by order of the Head of State to alleviate domestic shortages. Copra exports are controlled by the Copra Board and banana exports by the Produce Marketing Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. Export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa w i th in a reasonable time af ter shipment. Where exceptional circumstances exist, the Ministry of Fi- nance may waive this requirement for certain export items. Proceeds from In visibles All receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. Resident travelers must on return sell to the Bank all foreign currency brought in. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign and domestic banknotes. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution WESTERN SAMOA Capital All ou tward capital transfers by residents require the specific approval of the M in is try of Finance and capital received by residents must be surrendered to the Bank of Western Samoa. Inward capital remittances do not normally require approval, but borrowing abroad by nonbank residents does require approval. The transfer of legacies from estates of deceased local residents due to beneficiaries permanently residing overseas is ap- proved up to a limit of WS$ 10,000 a year. The Bank of Western Samoa approves transfers of gifts to relatives and dependents, either for special fam i ly occasions or by way of maintenance, up to WS$200 a year for each fam i ly group. Foreign investments in specified activi- ties in Western Samoa are encouraged. The Enterprises Incentive Act No. 27/1965, as amended in 1969, makes provision for the gran t ing of certain relief of customs duties, income tax, and business license fees to persons engaged in approved enterprises. Both the re- patriation of capital and profit remittances on foreign capital are subject to approval by the Minister of Fi- nance; such approval is normally granted. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form. There are no restrictions on imports or ex- ports of gold in any form. Changes during 1974 January 1. Foreign exchange allocations for import- ers came in to effect which were set at levels above those of 1973 (in terms of domestic currency). They included a special allocation to cover increased petroleum and transportation costs. 526 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The currency of the Yemen Arab Republic is the Yemen Rial, which is issued by the Central Bank of Yemen. No par value has been established with the Fund. All transactions take place in a free market at a fluctuating exchange rate, which in 1974 remained un- changed. On December 31, 1974 the rate for the U.S. dollar was YR1 1 = US$0.22. Exchange rates for other currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank on the basis of London cross rates against the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered on behalf of the Minister of Economy by the Central Bank of Yemen, which has the authority to grant exchange licenses and licenses for imports and exports. The only commercial banks and authorized dealers are the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development and four branches of foreign commercial banks. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements.1 Settlements are usually made in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are reserved for the Government. All other imports require import licenses. These are issued freely for all commodities for which government agen- cies or firms with government participation do not have the exclusive right of importation; three firms have such rights, for cigarettes, petroleum products, and medical supplies, respectively. In addition to a license, the im- portation of certain commodities requires the permis- sion of the Ministry of Economy. Imports that are financed by the importer with his own foreign exchange held abroad also require an import license. Importers who have obtained an import license may obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the local banks or the free market. In addition to the applicable customs du ty, imports are subject to a defense tax of 5 per cent and a statistical tax of 2 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles may be made freely when financed from foreign currency accounts held at home or abroad by exporters of goods or services, or when effected in foreign banknotes. All other payments in respect of invisibles require an exchange license is- sued by the Central Bank. Such licenses are issued freely for virtually all current invisibles, including tour- ist travel. Travelers may freely take out any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel are prohibited. For statistical pur- poses only, all exports require registration forms, which are issued freely by banks; export licenses are not re- quired. Exporters are not required to surrender the foreign exchange proceeds; these may be retained in foreign currency accounts with domestic banks. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles need not be surrendered but may be retained in foreign currency accounts with do- mestic commercial banks. Travelers may freely bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital In principle, all capital transfers require prior ap- proval and capital proceeds must be surrendered; in practice, no restrictions are imposed on inward or out- ward capital transfers. Both domestic and foreign in- vestment are regulated by Law No. 13 of 1970. Foreign investors in the Yemen Arab Republic are free to trans- fer abroad any desired proportion of their net profits after taxes or of their capital. Gold Two commemorative gold coins in denominations of YRls 20 and YRls 30 have been issued, which do not circulate in the Yemen Arab Republic. By virtue of Ministerial Decree No. 21 /1973 residents are free to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in the Yemen Arab Republic and to import or export gold in any form without an import, export, or exchange license. Changes during 1974 No significant changes took place. NOTE 1 There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement w i th Egypt. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts The currency of the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen is the Yemeni Dinar, which is issued'by the Bank of Yemen (the central bank) and is defined as equivalent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold. No par value for the Yemeni dinar has been established with the Fund. Since February 1973, the central rate has been YD 1 = US$2.89523 or US$1 = YD 0.345395. On December 31, 1974, the National Bank of Yemen's buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were YD 0.343 and YD 0.350. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Yemen's General Department for Ex- change Control through the Foreign Exchange Com- mittee, which has delegated certain powers to the Director of Exchange Control, a member of the Com- mittee. The Ministry of Economy and Industry issues import and export licenses; those for gold and other precious metals require the prior approval of the Direc- tor of Exchange Control. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermediary of authorized dealers (licensed commercial banks approved by the Director of Exchange Control); at present the only commercial bank and authorized dealer is the National Bank of Yemen. Except for payments for imports against letters of credit or documents, which may be approved by the authorized dealer, and for payments by the oil refinery, all payments for imports (including those of precious metals) require the prior approval of the Director of Exchange Control. Two public corpora- tions are engaged in foreign trade (see section on Im- ports and Import Payments, below). The oil refinery is treated as a resident entity but in its operations gener- ally is not affected by the existing exchange and trade controls. Prescription of Currency The People's Democratic Republic of Yemen has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations continues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the intermedi- ary of authorized dealers in accordance with prescrip- tion of currency regulations that are in certain respects similar to those applicable in the United Kingdom. All payments to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Ex- port proceeds and certain receipts from invisibles must be received in prescribed currencies1 and surrendered to authorized dealers. Payments for imports must be made in prescribed currencies. 528 Nonresident accounts may be held by certain per- sons not resident in the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen. External Accounts in Yemeni dinars may be credited with proceeds from convertible foreign cur- rency transferred from abroad, with bank interest pay- able on such accounts, and with balances from other External Accounts. Transfers from abroad must be in the form of bank drafts; the accounts cannot be cred- ited with payments in the form of foreign banknotes (unless they have been declared to the customs on en- try), or with locally raised or locally earned funds (ex- cept in certain cases specified by the law). External Accounts may be debited for any payments to resi- dents, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Trans- fers abroad from Nonresident Accounts in Yemeni di- nars require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. The Foreign Exchange Commit- tee may direct any payment to a nonresident to a Blocked Account. Except with the Committee's prior approval, Blocked Accounts may be debited only for purchases of specified securities. Subject to certain conditions, Yemeni nationals working abroad may establish nonresident accounts in foreign currencies; balances in these accounts earn in- terest and are convertible into foreign currency on de- mand. Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, all imports other than those of the oil refinery require individual licenses. Most overland merchanting trade with the Yemen Arab Re- public is also exempt from the licensing requirements. Imports from Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. An import program is drawn up annually, but its quotas are operated flexibly. Payments for imports on a c.& f. basis against letters of credit or documentary drafts can be made by authorized dealers without the prior ap- proval of the Director of Exchange Control; most other forms of payment for imports require approval. Insur- ance on imports must be effected locally. A Board of Trade is in charge of the trading activities of the nationalized companies. The National Company for Foreign Trade has a monopoly over imports of flour, sugar, wheat, rice, ghee, cooking oil, tea, and cigarettes. The National Import Company Ltd. im- ports certain consumer goods not mentioned in Law No. 37 of 1969. The National Company for Home Trade is the sole importer of automobiles and other vehicles, all government requirements, and most re- quirements of the public hospitals, as well as other specified items. Imports into and exports from the free port zones within the port of Aden are free of exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution and trade controls (except in respect of transactions between these zones and the rest of the People's Demo- cratic Republic of Yemen) and are exempt from cus- toms duties. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. The basic exchange allowance for tourism, which residents may take up without applying for exchange control approval, is the equivalent of YD 125 a person a trip in travelers checks, drafts, and foreign notes and coins (50 per cent of this amount for children under ten).2 Allowances for other types of travel are granted on the merits of the application. Foreign employees of approved enterprises and the oil refinery are allowed to remit abroad up to 50 per cent and three eighths, respectively, of their total earnings (net of taxes). All insurance is nationalized; existing policies have been transferred to the National Insurance and Reinsurance Company, and payments abroad in respect of premiums are not permitted. Trav- elers may take out the equivalent of YD 5 in domestic banknotes and up to the equivalent of YD 125 in trav- elers checks, foreign banknotes, or other foreign means of payment. Furthermore, nonresidents may take out any foreign exchange declared upon en try. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports, including petroleum products, are ex- empt from licenses. All exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for exports to the Yemen Arab Republic specified by the Foreign Exchange Commit- tee, export proceeds must be received in prescribed currencies within six months of shipment and must be sold to authorized dealers upon receipt. The proceeds of exports or re-exports to the Yemen Arab Republic may be surrendered in the national currency of the importing coun try. Proceeds from Invisibles All claims of residents for services rendered to non- residents must be collected in foreign currency (or re- ceived from an External Account) when due and surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may freely bring in foreign banknotes but not more than YD 5 in domestic currency. Capital Virtually all capital payments and transactions re- quire prior approval. Expatriates are normally permit- ted upon departure to remit their liquid funds to their country of permanent residence. Foreign investments that have been approved under the Law for the Organization of Industry and the Pro- motion of Industrial Investment (Law No. 23 of PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN May 14, 1971) may be granted exemptions from im- port duty and various other tax facilities. All remittances abroad of interest and profits require prior approval by the Director of Exchange Control. Profit remittances abroad by foreign firms under Law No. 23 also are subject to the Exchange Control Law (Law No. 16) and in any one year should not normally exceed 50 per cent of the accrued net profit. Beginning five years after production has started, the net value of the enterprise (calculated on the basis of actual or book value or surrender or liquidation value, whichever is less) is transferable at the rate of 25 per cent a year; if an expatriate national or foreign investor encounters difficulties, however, his capital may be retransferred six months after entry. Interest due on any loans ob- tained abroad after the firm concerned has been estab- lished may also be remitted, provided that all duties, taxes, and other government dues have been paid. Gold Only the monetary authorities and authorized deal- ers may purchase, hold, or sell gold bullion. Licensed goldsmiths may purchase, hold, and sell other un- worked gold and gold coins and ornaments. Other resi- dents may hold gold only in the form of ornaments or numismatic coins. Exports and imports of gold by reg- istered goldsmiths require licenses issued by the Minis- try of Economy and Industry (General Department for Foreign Trade); in certain cases, the consent of the Foreign Exchange Committee must also be obtained. Travelers may bring in or take out reasonable amounts of gold, in the form of ornaments only (not exceeding YD 100 in value for departing travelers). Imports and exports of gold by travelers are subject only to customs control, but if incoming nonresident travelers wish to sell any gold coins or bullion, they must sell them to an authorized dealer. Changes during 1974 January 1. Yemeni nationals working abroad were allowed to establish nonresident foreign currency ac- counts. February 4. The limit of YD 250 on the value of gold ornaments that travelers could bring in was removed. July 9. Import duties on many consumer goods were increased by 10 per cent of the existing duty. July 14. Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, and Lebanese pounds were added to the list of prescribed currencies. NOTES 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kro- nor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 The equivalent of YD 75 for Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Yemen Arab Republic, and the Gulf States. Travelers to the Yemen Arab Republic may alternatively take out up to YRls 1,000 in Yemen rials. 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0433330 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav Dinar, corresponding to Din 20.508 = SDR 1 or Din 17 = US$1. However, since July 12, 1973 the authorities have not maintained the exchange rate of the dinar within announced margins and there- fore all transactions, except for receipts and payments effected under the procedures set forth for certain countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral pay- ments agreements, take place at a fluctuating exchange rate. The buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar in the foreign exchange market in Belgrade on Decem- ber 30, 1974 were Din 17.0265 and Din 17.0777 per US$ 1, respectively. The foreign exchange market is lim- ited to spot transactions between authorized business banks and the National Bank of Yugoslavia. The cur- rencies dealt in are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finn- ish markkaa, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Kuwaiti dinars, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provi- sions in respect of foreign trade and exchange transac- tions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, establishes rules and regulations, makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses when required. It is also charged with securing bal- anced trade with payments agreement countries. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. This Sec- retariat and the National Bank of Yugoslavia adminis- ter the exchange controls. The National Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries; it also licenses compensation transactions. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank or an authorized bank. The latter are of three types. Fully authorized banks, which must have a minimum credit fund of Din 500 million and deposits of at least Din 1,000 million, may engage in all foreign exchange transactions in Yugosla- via and abroad, as well as in foreign credit operations (including the granting of guarantees). Limited autho- rized banks, which must have a minimum credit fund amoun t ing to Din 100 million and deposits of at least Din 200 million, may conduct foreign exchange opera- tions in Yugoslavia only; they may neither keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign credit operations, except through the intermediary of a fully authorized credit bank. Authorized exchange offices 530 may only deal in foreign banknotes and travelers checks; this status is open to all commercial and savings banks, hotels, and specifically authorized tourist agen- cies. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic organizations (both producing and trad- ing undertakings) registered for this purpose. Registra- tion is effected automatically, provided that certain conditions, including the provision of minimum work- ing capital for trade enterprises, are fulfilled. Economic organizations that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel their orders through economic organiza- tions which export and /or import on their own behalf. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugo- slavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral accounts as follows: (1) in U.S. dol- lars with Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Brazil, Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Roma- nia, and the U.S.S.R.; (2) in pounds sterling with North Viet-Nam; and (3) in the partner country's currency with Iraq. Certain settlements with Bangladesh, Co- lombia, Mexico, and Pakistan take place through spe- cial accounts. A degree of multilateralization of payments is provided under the bilateral payments agreements with Afghanistan, Ghana, Hungary, and Iraq.1 For purposes of import and export licensing and the operation of nonresident accounts, Ghana and Hungary are considered to belong to the convertible area. Nonresident Accounts Foreign juridical and physical persons may maintain accounts denominated in foreign exchange and in di- nars in Yugoslavia according to the following rules. Foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may freely open accounts in convertible currencies in Yugoslavia. For- eign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may freely open with authorized banks accounts ex- pressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Foreign exchange accounts in convertible currencies of nonresident juridical and physical persons are kept in the currency deposited.2 Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia, in dinars or in the currency concerned, and abroad, in any con- vertible currency. Transfers from these accounts are free if made in the currency in which the account is kept; outward transfers in other convertible currencies ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are subject to the account-holding bank being prepared to make the necessary conversion. Nonresident foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be opened only for certain fore ign jur id- ical and physical persons resident in Yugoslavia. Bal- ances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for re t ran s fer to the bilateral coun t ry to which the account is related. Foreign juridical and physical persons may free ly open nonresident accounts in convertible dinars with authorized banks. Such accounts can be credited freely with amounts whose transfer in convertible currency has been authorized and they may be debited freely for permitted paymen ts in Yugoslavia and for transfer abroad in the convertible currency of the account holder's coun t ry of domicile. Nonresident juridical and physical persons may also open o ther d inar accounts w i th authorized banks. These other accounts may be credited with dinars ac- quired in Yugoslavia in accordance w i th the existing regulations. Balances are, in principle, nontransferable and may be spent in Yugoslavia only for noncommer- cial payments by the account holder or by members of his close fam i ly, or by the owner and staff of foreign firms if the account holder is a foreign juridical person. If balances on these accounts derive from copyright royalties or f rom work performed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pensions and disability allowances of persons who have emigrated from Yugoslavia, or from alimony paymen ts, transfers may be effected in accor- dance with the existing regulations. Resident nationals may maintain foreign exchange accounts or foreign exchange savings deposits in con- vertible currencies w i th any authorized bank. These accounts are kept in the currency deposited, are interest bearing, and interest is paid par t ly in the foreign cur- rency deposited and partly in dinars. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indefinite period of time and may be drawn upon freely for payments in Yugoslavia and abroad on behalf of the account holder or his immediate family; balances are not transferab le to other persons or accounts (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugoslav emigrants residing abroad and former emigrants returning to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Foreign exchange accounts in bilateral currencies may be maintained by resident nationals. In the case of currencies of Eastern European countries3 and Mongo- lia, the accounts are denominated in dollars of account, and for North Viet-Nam in pounds sterling of account; for other bilateral currencies the accounts are kept in the currency deposited. In general, balances may be used only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia or for re- transfers to the bilateral country to which the account is related. YUGOSLAVIA Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by eco- nomic organizations registered as participating in for- eign trade. In addition to economic organizations specializing in foreign trade, most major industrial pro- ducers are registered. The import of certain basic food- s tuffs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, edible oils, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Food Re- serves, on the basis of public bids. For most commodities import licenses are not re- quired. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in five categories, largely in accordance with the manner in which exchange is made available: LB—liberalized goods; DL—goods liberal- ized under special license; GDK —goods imported un- der global exchange quotas; RK and DK—goods subject to individual quotas (RK if individual quotas are fixed by quan t i ty and DK if they are fixed in di- nars); and D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Goods in the LB category are mainly raw materials, foods tuffs, and spare parts, but they also include some consumer goods; at the end of 1974, 5,097 items (out of a total of 7,616) were classified under LB. Protective equipment for workers and all other goods not specifi- cally included in the GDK, RK, DK, or D lists were also liberalized and free f rom any quan t i ta t ive restric- tion. Imports of LB commodities accounted for 51.6 per cent of total imports in 1973, and 59.4 per cent of total imports in 1974. Exchange for payments for LB imports f rom the convertible currency area is made available freely in any convertible currency appropriate to the exporting coun t ry. Payments for imports of liber- alized goods from payments agreement countries must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant pay- ments agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of funds in the appropriate clearing account. DL goods comprise certain previously restricted consumer items, such as watches, whose 1972 import value was negligible. Special licenses are required for these items for statistical and recording purposes. The Secretariat for Foreign Trade is obliged to issue the license within 20 days from the date of application. Once the license is obtained the importer may freely acquire foreign exchange for the import payment in the same manner as for LB goods. At the end of 1974, 32 items were liberalized under the DL regime, and im- ports of these items corresponded in 1974 to 0.4 per cent of total imports. The GDK list comprises raw materials, other repro- duction materials, most capital equipment, and most of those consumer goods not liberalized under the LB and DL regimes. In 1973 imports of commodities that were on this list amounted to 21.2 per cent of total imports, and in 1974 imports of the same items amounted to 14.4 per cent of total imports. Such imports can be made under several d ifferent procedures. Those for 531 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA nonconsumer goods are as follows: Each importer of raw materials and other reproduction materials re- ceives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any such goods listed as GDK. Payment for imports of capital goods on the GDK list may be financed from specific exchange allo- cations; a considerable portion may be freely financed from retention quota funds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), funds originating in deprecia- tion allowances, and credits obtained abroad, including suppliers' credits. The specific exchange allocations are limited mainly to large investment projects, including public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Fed- eral Assembly. Economic organizations may acquire foreign exchange at a predetermined proportion of their annual depreciation allowance, a ratio that varies ac- cording to the economic sector involved. For consumer goods, trading enterprises agree within the Economic Chambers on the distribution of GDK quotas among themselves. This agreement must be approved by the Federal Secretariat for Market and Prices, which issues a certificate to each trading enterprise for its share in the GDK quota allowing it to import the agreed quan- tity of the goods concerned. Imports under commodity quotas (list RK or list DK), mainly selected agricultural and mineral prod- ucts (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and salt) but also machine tools and certain plastics, are subject to quotas established for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are established either in physical quantities (RK) or in di- nars (DK). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and payments agreement countries; their allocation among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organi- zations.4 Imports of RK and DK items amounted to about 20.6 per cent of total imports in 1973 and about 20.8 per cent of total imports in 1974. Exchange is provided automatically for payments for imports of goods subject to the RK and DK regime, but only up to a predetermined quan t i ty or amount for each item. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammunition, opium, motor vehicles, tractors, certain textile fibers and yarns, television sets, railroad rolling stock, air- craft, fertilizers, natural gas, and bitumen. Import li- censes are required only for list D commodities. These licenses automatically entitle an enterprise to purchase the requisite foreign exchange. Imports of D items ac- counted for 6.5 per cent of total imports in 1973 and 5.0 per cent of total imports in 1974. There is also a special list of goods whose import by enterprises requires ad hoc permission by the Secretar- iat for Foreign Trade.5 At the end of 1974, the list comprised 46 items, such as refrigerators, television receivers, radios, record players, and tape recorders. For certain goods there is an additional requirement, irrespective of those set out above, of a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. At the end of 1974 these goods were 532 61 LB items, 5 RK items, 2 DK items, and 1 D item. For all items concerned, the Secretariat may prescribe direct importation from the country of origin; these items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and fruits, raw materials, fats, oils, and textiles, as well as tin and raw cotton. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks may use these funds freely to import goods intended for their own use or for the use of close relatives residing with them, regardless of the import regime for the goods. Self-employed Yugoslav nationals may freely and at any time import machinery for small farms or equipment for handicraft production, up to Din 50,000 a shipment. Also, Yugoslavs returning from work abroad and nonresidents residing in Yugoslavia for more than three months may import goods up to Din 50,000 intended for their personal needs or the needs of their own household, provided such goods were paid for from the savings from their foreign earn- ings; such savings may be held abroad or in foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nationals working abroad may import automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, provided that importation is effected through a registered enter- prise and payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of payment and method of importation, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for per- manent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is purchased out of an insurance indemnity received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad continuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens returning from a tourist trip abroad may import any amount of goods intended for the needs of their household. However, if the value of the goods exceeds Din 1,000, these goods must be handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic forwarder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the cus- toms duties are paid. Compensation transactions are only authorized in exceptional circumstances; in both 1973 and 1974 they accounted for less than 1 per cent of total imports. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 3 per cent equalization tax ("contingency tax") are pay- able on all commodities not exempt from customs duty. In addition, an import surcharge of 6 per cent of the c.i.f. value at the border has to be paid for all dutiable commodities, with the exception that the surcharge has been reduced to 2 per cent for capital equipment for the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution development of basic primary product industries, for some reproduction materials, and for certain essential items such as butter, wheat flour, hides, and raw cot- ton. Many agricultural commodities and foodstuffs are subject to variable import levies. Certain goods are subject to advance import deposit requirements; the deposit is 30 per cent or 50 per cent of the c.i.f. value and is retained for 12 months or 6 months, respectively. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise trans- actions, including transpor ta t ion, are fu l ly liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made freely available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are transferable under certain conditions. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains bilateral payments arrangements, then such paymen ts may be made only if the agreement in ques- tion provides for this to be done on a reciprocal basis. Authorized banks may sell foreign currency up to the equivalent of Din 600 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified personal expenses. The National Bank may authorize the sale of any amount of foreign exchange for the foregoing and for unspecified purposes when justified in light of the cir- cumstances. Purchases of services abroad, as well as spare parts, fuel, etc., by Yugoslav enterprises involved in interna- tional freight and passenger transportation are liberal- ized. There is no basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad. However, travel agencies may sell orga- nized tours abroad against payment in dinars up to an amount equivalent to 100 per cent of their individual retention quotas. The National Bank may also autho- rize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and individual travel abroad. Payments for other invisibles may be made from the remittor's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention quotas, or, when made by various social and sociopolitical organiza- tions, from specific annual allocations). Not more than Din 1,000 in domestic currency, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Foreign travelers may bring in and take out any amount in foreign exchange w i thout declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In principle, exports are free of control, except for certain raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic market (including petroleum and petroleum derivatives and certain livestock) and certain other ma- terials such as gunpowder, weapons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to countries with which Yugoslavia has a bilateral payments agreement are subject to approval by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade ("accor- YUGOSLAVIA dance"). Such approval may be given for a group of commodities or for all commodities to be exported within a certain period (global approval). Permission to export to bilateral countries may be made conditional on an under tak ing to import from such countries or to export to other countries. In accordance with bilateral arrangements, Yugoslavia restrains exports of certain commodities to France, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, Sweden, and the United States. Proceeds from exports must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of exportation, unless specific ap- proval is granted to deviate from this rule. The surren- der of these proceeds is not required. The full export proceeds may be credited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts which the exporter maintains w i th an authorized bank of his choice; separate accounts must be established for each currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles or be sold to an authorized bank. Retention quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain consumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tourist industries or are engaged in setting up trade fa irs, and by film enter- prises; such imports are also permitted as consignment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the remainder may be retained indefinitely or used for certain payments abroad, but cannot earn interest. The permitted reten- tion rate is 20 per cent for all export earnings from goods and services, w i th the exception that a rate of 45 per cent applies to tourist organizations and a rate of 100 per cent applies to foreign exchange earnings of Yugoslav enterprises operating abroad and to Yugo- slav enterprises operating under long-term cooperation agreements w i th foreign companies. (Enterprises with long-term cooperation agreements may in any case im- port up to the value of their production which is a result of that cooperation.) In some instances (services ren- dered to foreign tourists and sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank), sales against payment in dinars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Producing enterprises selling specified consumer goods in Yugoslavia for foreign currency may retain 20 per cent of the foreign exchange thus earned. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated within 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable. The performance of construction and engineering ser- vices in payments agreement countries is subject to an "accordance" issued by the Federal Secretariat for For- eign Trade. Receipts f rom services are eligible for reten- tion quotas; the quota for hotels and tourist agencies is 45 per cent. Exchange proceeds may be used for pay- ments abroad connected with the activities of the eco- 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA nomic organization concerned, including payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to eco- nomic organizations other than those with which the recipients are cooperating in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents who, while em- ployed abroad, deposited their savings in foreign sav- ings banks and obtained a "savings book," may withdraw their balances in the form of foreign exchange when in Yugoslavia. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign cur- rency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the full amount of a person's savings in foreign exchange. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his family; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Authorized trade organizations may sell manufac- tured goods to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia against payment in foreign exchange at a discount freely estab- lished by the trade organizations themselves. This dis- count is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely contracted by fu l ly authorized banks and economic organizations, with the exceptions that no consumer goods may be imported on deferred payment terms, and that no for- eign financial credits may be taken up whose repayment terms include a grace period of less than two years.6 All other inward or outward transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require individual licenses. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the National Banks of the republics. Loans must ordinarily be repaid w i th foreign exchange that is either obtained by the economic organization concerned as export re- tention quotas and foreign exchange amortization (de- preciation) allocations or acquired from banks according to the regulations governing the foreign trade regime. Credits in the former category are subject to prior dinar deposit requirements; the deposits are noninterest bearing and are held with the National Banks of the republics until full repayment of the foreign credits. For financial credits and foreign exchange deposits received by business banks for the account of nonresidents, the five basic rates of deposit introduced in April 1972 range from 1 per cent for maturities over ten years to 40 per cent for maturities of less than two years. How- ever, as a temporary measure beginning in mid-Decem- 534 ber 1972, a dinar deposit of 75 per cent was required for all financial credits and foreign exchange deposits by nonresidents regardless of maturity. For credits for the importation of capital goods, the deposit rates at the end of 1974 were 20 per cent for credits with a maturity of up to three years; 10 per cent for credits of between three and five years; and 1 per cent for credits with a maturity over five years. However, if the capital goods were imported for investments in underdevel- oped regions of Yugoslavia, the latter deposit rates were 10 per cent for credits with a maturity of up to three years and 1 per cent for credits with a longer maturity and for all credits for the import of specially produced capital equipment. Certain foreign credits are specifically exempted from the foregoing deposit requirements; these include credits from specified international financial organiza- tions, credits contracted for or on behalf of the Federal Government or the National Bank, and credits con- tracted for the importation of equipment intended for high-priority sectors and activities as defined by Deci- sions of the Federal Executive Council. Foreign credits repayable with foreign exchange ac- quired according to the regulations governing the for- eign trade regime are trade credits for raw materials and intermediate goods, usually with a maturity of up to 360 days. These are exempt from deposit require- ments. As an exception, if the goods imported on credit are under the LB regime, 25 per cent must be deposited with the National Banks of the republics or the autono- mous provinces as a downpayment and the remaining 75 per cent is payable at maturity. Foreigners may invest in certain Yugoslav economic organizations but only through joint ventures; such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the orga- nization's capital. Profit transfers abroad may be fi- nanced from the retention quota and, in addition, profit transfers are permitted up to one third of the joint venture's foreign currency earnings from exports of goods and services. If the law governing joint ventures were to be amended, the legal provisions in force on the date of registration of a joint venture would continue to be applied during the entire life of the investment contract, if the foreign investor so desires or, at the latter's option, any more favorable provisions of the amended legislation would be applied. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. Foreign juridical and physical persons are permitted to purchase bonds issued by Yugoslav enter- prises, sociopolitical communities, and other sociolegal persons. The investment income earned abroad by Yugoslav economic organizations must be repatriated within 90 days; however, when repatriated the profits are gov- erned by the regulations for retention quotas. Residents are obliged to repatriate and, with the exception of inheritances, to surrender all foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Outward capital transfers by residents who are phys- ical persons are not approved. Economic organizations wishing to participate in foreign enterprises may be allowed under special conditions, by the Federal Secre- tariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance, to export the necessary capital. Also, a Deci- sion of the Federal Executive Council of October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Gold The National Bank has issued certain commemora- tive gold coins, which are not legal tender. Foreign travelers are freely permitted to import and export these coins, subject to customs declaration and, for exports, subject to proof that they have been purchased in Yugoslavia. Residents who are private persons may hold gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may be sold to the National Bank or to any authorized bank, and they may freely hold, purchase, impor t, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic economic organizations that have been registered as trading in gold may import gold jewelry under the GDK import regime; they may free ly export gold jewe lry and other articles of gold. Authorized banks may freely export gold coins. Sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank against payment in dinars (calculated by applying the rate of Din 17 per U.S. dollar to a price of US$42.22 an ounce) are re- garded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota of 20 per cent in convertible foreign exchange. Other domestic sales of new ly mined gold by the pro- ducers may be made at a price which equals the average quotation in free gold markets abroad. Domestic eco- nomic organizations using gold for their normal activi- ties may purchase gold f rom domestic producers or abroad on the basis of quotas allocated to each such organization individually. Changes during 1974 January 1. The system of expor t- import l ink ing ar- rangements was abolished. January 1. The preferential export regime for "major exporters" was abolished. January 1. Crude petroleum and gas oil were freed from import duties and the import surcharge on these goods was reduced from 6 per cent to 2 per cent. January 31. Conditions were established under which Yugoslav enterprises engaged in fore ign trade or in construction abroad could hold foreign exchange w i th foreign banks or f irms. February 14. Fertilizers, na tural gas, and bitumen were moved f rom the LB list to the D list. February 14. The reductions in import duties on fer- rous me ta l lurgy products and the du ty exemptions for YUGOSLAVIA certain raw materials and other reproduction materials were extended until December 31. February. Yugoslavia introduced a system of gener- alized tar iff preferences for developing countries. The beneficiaries were the 25 least developed countries in the UNCTAD classification, plus Bangladesh. March 15. Modifications were introduced in the con- ditions under which insurance premiums and indemni- ties could be settled in foreign exchange. April 25. The import surcharge was reduced f rom 6 per cent to 2 per cent for 27 agricultural and food products. April 25. Some 835 items were transferred from the GDK list; 651 of these were shifted to the LB list. June 14. A National Bank decision modified the specification of the types of borrowing abroad for which authorized banks and socialist enterprises could grant guarantees and super guarantees. The repayment period could not exceed five years. June 20. The transfer of fertilizers from the LB list to the D list was extended until December 31, 1975. July 16. The National Bank issued a revised decision on the manner in which settlements w i th foreign countries had to be effected. As previously, payments and receipts in relations with countries of the convert- ible currency area were to take place in convertible currencies, and those in relations with countries of the bilateral account area in the appropriate clearing cur- rencies. Exceptionally, however, the National Bank could introduce a temporary limitation on the use of any specific convertible currency for payments and re- ceipts in respect of goods and services. July 19. New regulations regarding foreign currency accounts held by foreign juridical and physical persons came into force. The National Bank Decision of April 6, 1973, published in Official Gazette No. 17/73, was revoked. August 3. The GDK quota for the second half of 1974 for the import of raw materials and semimanufac- tures was reduced by 10 per cent. August 3. The GDK quota for 1974 for goods for personal consumption was reduced by 15 per cent. August 3. A list of 45 commodities or groups of commodities was issued whose import by enterprises un t il the end of 1974 would require the ad hoc permis- sion of the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. The list included air conditioners, washing machines, refrig- erators, typewriters, television sets, transistor radios, vacuum cleaners, phonographs, and tape recorders. (With effect from January 1, 1975 this list was abol- ished.) August 6. The National Bank issued instructions for the implementation of the decision of July 19 regulat- ing the use of foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia by nonresident physical and juridical persons. Nonresi- dents could open foreign exchange accounts in autho- rized banks in convertible currencies. Deposits could be used for payments in dinars and foreign exchange in Yugoslavia and for transfers abroad. Banks were also 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA allowed to open foreign exchange accounts in curren- cies of the bilateral account countries area, but only for foreign diplomatic missions and other foreign agencies in Yugoslavia and for foreign physical persons resident in Yugoslavia; these accounts could be fed only by clearing currencies remitted from abroad and by checks and letters of credit in these currencies. Balances could be used by the account holders only for dinar payments in Yugoslavia and for transfers of the clearing curren- cies concerned to the country of origin. August 10. Socialist enterprises tak ing up foreign fi- nancial credits as well as authorized banks tak ing up foreign financial and bank credits were exempted from the obligation to place dinar deposits w i th the National Bank in the following cases: if the financial credits granted to socialist enterprises and authorized banks were used for payments abroad for services related to prospecting for mineral and ore deposits in Yugoslavia; and if the financial credits and deposits used by autho- rized banks were earmarked for purposes of placing deposits with their correspondent banks abroad and with other foreign banks with the highest credit rating. August 10. Import deposits of 30 per cent for 12 months on some 20 groups of commodities and 50 per cent for 6 months on some 63 groups of commodities were required. The cash deposits were to be kept in noninterest-bearing accounts with the National Bank. The deposit requirements were applicable both to im- ports on a cash basis and on a credit basis. There were certain exemptions when the imports were to be used for specified purposes. August 10. A National Bank decision provided that certain imports of goods and services on credit terms would be considered as cash operations rather than credit operations. They were imports of goods, when payment was made within 90 days after customs clear- ance, and imports of services (whether rendered in Yu- goslavia or abroad), when payment was made within 120 days. August 16. A bilateral payments agreement with North Viet-Nam was signed. It came into effect on the same date. October 29. The dinar was depreciated by approxi- mately 7 per cent. The middle rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from Din 16.1242 (in the preceding week) to Din 17.2850 per US$1. November 6. The limits on the amount of Yugoslav currency that could be taken out or brought in by travelers were increased from Din 500 to Din 1,000 and from Din 500 to Din 1,500, respectively. November 7. The import surcharge was extended from the end of 1974 to December 31, 1975. November 16. A subsidiary GDK import allocation for 1974 was given to the coal industry. November 16. Certain goods were exempted from the import deposit requirements introduced in August. November 25. Imports and exports of crude petro- leum were made subject to license. December. The payment of the duty levied at 5 per cent on specified imports for priority purposes was deferred. Their payment henceforth could be made by means of a bill of exchange either within 36 months of importation or within 5 months from the date of com- missioning of the project, whichever was earlier. December 11. Yugoslav citizens (physical persons) depositing foreign exchange in foreign exchange ac- counts no longer had to prove their right to such for- eign exchange. December 31. The bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Poland, and Romania expired. NOTES 1 Settlements with Bulgaria, Poland, and Romania took place in convertible currencies w i th effect from January 1, 1975, and settlements w i th Iraq w i th effect from February 1, 1975. 2 Accounts may be denominated in any of the following currencies: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dol- lars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guil- ders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Other con- vertible currencies must be converted in to one or more of the foregoing currencies. 3 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, and U.S.S.R. 4 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed upon among economic organizations within the Economic Chambers. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the distribution. Imports of coffee, wheat, sugar, rice, and salt for final consumption are adminis- tered by the Federal Office for Food Reserves, which is au- thorized to select the most competitive importer from among registered importers. 5 With effect from January 1, 1975 the list was abolished. 6 When enterprises issue bonds abroad, they may use 80 per cent of the foreign exchange proceeds for the import of equipment and spare parts for their own needs. 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE (Position on December 31, 1974) Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.77734 grams of fine gold per Zaire. A central rate of Z 1 = US$2 has been established, and Zaire avails itself of wider margins. The intervention currency is the U.S. dollar. The Bank of Zaire (the central bank) quotes an official rate of exchange for the Belgian franc based on the rate for the zaire quoted on the official exchange market in Brussels. The buying and selling rates for other quoted currencies, except the U.S. dollar, the French franc, and the CFA franc, also are based on official market rates in Brussels. For the U.S. dollar, the Bank of Zaire quotes a fixed rate of Z 1 = US$2, buying and selling. Quotations for the French franc and the CFA franc are based on daily quotations for the zaire in the official exchange market in Paris. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. Administration of Control The Bank of Zaire has regulatory authority over all foreign trade and payments. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to authorize payments and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of Zaire, and to permit the importation, exportation, and transit of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments from nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies quoted daily by the Bank of Zaire.1 Special authorization for the acceptance of other currency may only be given in respect of curren- cies that can be exchanged freely without a discount. Payments to nonresidents must be made in the listed currencies. However, certain settlements with Burundi, Rwanda, and Uganda are made through special ac- counts established under arrangements concluded by the Bank of Zaire with the central banks of the countries concerned. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Zaires, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Convertible Accounts in Zaires. Nonresident Accounts in Zaires may only be debited with the approval of the Bank of Zaire. Such accounts, when opened by diplomatic missions and international organizations established in Zaire, may be debited freely but may be credited only with the proceeds of sales of foreign currency and with payments made by the Government. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be cred- ited for any permitted payment in foreign currency; they may be debited freely for transfers to accounts abroad or to Resident and Nonresident Foreign Cur- rency Accounts, and for sales of foreign currency against domestic currency. Nonresident Zairian nation- als require special authorization from the central bank to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresi- dent foreigners may open them freely. Convertible Accounts in Zaires may be credited in accordance with Circular No. 1312 and debited freely for conversion into foreign currency or for any pay- ments in domestic currency. Such accounts may be held by both residents and nonresidents but must not be credited with payments for exports of goods or services. Imports and Import Payments The importation of a number of goods is prohibited on grounds of public policy; these are mainly arms, ammunition, narcotics, and jukeboxes. The importa- tion of certain automobiles is prohibited for economic reasons. Import licenses, which must be submitted to the Bank of Zaire for prior approval, are only required for a few goods on list A (these include jewelry, pre- cious stones, precious metals, gold coins, rubber tires, certain iron and steel products, sugar, portland cement, mineral water, works of art, and antiques). All other imports are subject to import declarations, which do not require the approval of the central bank. The cen- tral bank has issued a general import and payments license which for all goods not on list A guarantees the availability of foreign exchange when payments fall due, provided that the importer files an import declara- tion with his bank following the actual placing of the order and provided that invoice price and quality have been verified and found acceptable by the foreign corre- spondents of the Office Zairois de Controle.3 Applications for import licenses, whether requiring foreign exchange or not, are made out at authorized banks; these forward the applications to the central bank after certification. After approval of the applica- tion by the central bank, which is given in the form of a visa, the import license application is returned to the intermediary authorized bank for validation. Import licenses are validated by the authorized banks without undue delay and remain valid for cus- toms clearance for six months starting from the first day of the month following that in which validation by the commercial bank takes place. Foreign exchange is in principle made available for all licensed imports, the validated license constituting at the same time an ex- change license; for payments purposes, the license re- mains valid as long as the relevant payments have not been completed. The counterpart of the value of goods imported under the Belgian food aid program, the U.S. import support program, and the agricultural aid pro- gram must be deposited within 120 to 180 days after their shipment. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAIRE All imports are subject to a statistical tax of 3 per cent ad valorem. In addition, most imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to a temporary import surcharge of either 5 per cent or 20 per cent ad valorem on the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formu- lated by the central bank. Certain payments are subject to authorization by the central bank, which is given or refused on a nondiscriminatory basis; the approval au- thority for other current payments has been delegated to the authorized banks. The central bank will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents or, except for imports payable on arrival, and provided that the sup- plier has arranged it, for insurance on imports. Further- more, imports and exports between Zaire and ports in Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Neth- erlands, and the Scandinavian countries must be shipped in vessels participating in the conference of the Associated Central West Africa Lines. Banks are not authorized to pay in foreign currency the maritime freight on shipments that do not meet these regulations, unless an immediate discount is obtained on the in- voice, and in the case of exports, banks are not autho- rized to validate export declarations unless these are marked accordingly. All other payments for services performed by nonresidents are in principle authorized. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals, how- ever, are restricted; for each enterprise concerned, their amount cannot exceed the countervalue in zaires of the amount spent on such transfers in 1972. Transfers in respect of certain administrative expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and certain por- tions of insurance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. Net profits of firms with foreign capital participation are in principle transferable up to an amount propor- tionate to that participation. Transfers of royalties re- quire the prior approval of the Service de la Propriete Industrielle. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in Zaire in local currency. Zai'rian nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts depending on the dura- tion of the journey, up to the equivalent of Z 400 a trip; applications exceeding this amount are subject to indi- vidual approval by the central bank. The export of domestic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out any foreign means of pay- ment declared upon entry, minus the equivalent, at the official rate, of Z 20 for each day spent in Zaire. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports not covered by general license require individual declarations. Banks are normally authorized to approve such declarations, in which exporters under- take to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be ex- 538 ported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export declarations are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. Most exports of minerals are subject to special regulations to take into account the time required for processing abroad. For mineral products exported by the Generate des Carrieres et Mines du Zaire (GECAMINES), a provisional payment of a variable portion of the shipment's estimated value has to be received and surrendered within 8 days after ship- ment. For diamond exports, two thirds of the value established at a preliminary examination in Zaire must be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Ex- port proceeds from coffee must be surrendered within 45 days after shipment. Receipts from other agricul- tural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of validation. The exportation of coffee is a monopoly of the National Coffee Office. Minimum ex- port prices have been established for coffee, tea, ivory, and certain other commodities. All exports are subject to a statistical tax of 1 per cent ad valorem, and all commodities except cement are subject to export duties. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surren- dered. The import of domestic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign means of payment and may take out on departure the amount declared on entry, less the equivalent of Z 20 a calendar day spent in Zaire. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought in under the provisions of the Investment Code (Ordi- nance-Law No. 69-032 of June 26, 1969) is guaran- teed, as is the transfer of profits and dividends on such capital. With minor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capital owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted.4 Gratuitous transfers of real estate are sub- ject to approval by executive ordinance. When the local currency part is paid by the debtor, amortization on foreign loans can be transferred in accordance with the terms of contracts that the central bank has endorsed to guarantee the availability of exchange for such trans- fers. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term lia- bilities in foreign currencies. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, pro- ducers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the per- sonal effects of a traveler, require the prior approval of the central bank. Producers are not required to sell ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution their production to the central bank. All newly pro- duced gold is exported, with the exception of small quantities used domestically for the manufacture of jewelry. Changes during 1974 January 15. The nationalization was announced of the foreign-owned petroleum distributing companies operating in Zaire. February 1. The existing attestation controls over imports and exports were transferred to the Office Zai- rois de Controle. February 14. Imports of dried and salted fish re- quired a license. July 10. The Societe Zairoise de Commercialisation des Minerais (SOZACOM) was established. It would take over the commercial operations of the Societe Generate des Minerais (SGM). August 5. Imports valued at less than Z 200 f.o.b. were made subject to attestation by agents of the Office Zairois de Controle before shipment; exempt were spare parts for industrial machinery, medicines, and medico-optical glasses. August 8. The regulation providing that imports could not be admitted at prices higher than the lowest 1971 list prices minus 3 per cent was withdrawn. Henceforth the Office Zairois de Controle a n d / or its representatives abroad were authorized to issue a sur- vey attestation for all imports, provided that the foreign supplier had granted the importer either a rebate of 3 per cent on the current list price or minimum payments ZAIRE terms, free of interest, of 90 days from the date of shipment. November 14. Import declarations and import li- censes for goods originating in or shipped from "East- ern bloc countries" required the prior visa of the Bank of Zaire. November 24. Imports of luxury passenger automo- biles were prohibited. November 26. Circular No. 146 added a number of iron and steel products to the list of goods for which an import license from the Bank of Zaire is required (list A). December 9. Zairian citizens required the prior ap- proval of the Bank of Zaire before importing for per- sonal use any jewelry, watches, or furn i ture. NOTES 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Conversion of foreign currency at the official rate, trans- fer from another Convertible Account in Zaires, or autho- rized paymen ts by residents to nonresidents. 3 The Office is empowered to issue attestations provided that the foreign supplier has granted the importer either a 3 per cent rebate on the current list price or payments terms of at least 90 days af ter shipment, free of interest. 4 On J anu a ry 5, 1975 it was announced that Zairian citi- zens were required to t ran s fer to the State any immovable property or securities they held abroad. All physical persons of Zairian na t iona l i ty and all juridical persons constituted according to Zairian law were required to repatriate by Sep- tember 30, 1975 any bank balances they held abroad that were denom ina ted in fore ign currencies. 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts ZAMBIA (Position on December 31, 1974) The par value is 1.14592 grams of fine gold per Zam- bian Kwacha, and Zambia avails itself of wider mar- gins. The effective parity relationship for the U.S. dollar, the intervention currency, is K 1 = US$1.55556 or US$1 = K 0.642856. The Bank of Zambia maintains fixed buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar. Since February 15, 1973, these rates have been Y16 of 1 per cent below parity for buying (US$1 = K 0.64246) and V4 of 1 per cent above parity for selling (US$1 = K 0.64447). The Bank of Zambia deals only with authorized commercial banks in Zam- bia. The authorized banks normally charge an addi- tional V2 of 1 per cent plus any cable costs when dealing with customers. The Bank of Zambia bases its rates for sterling on the current rates for the U.S. dollar in the London market; it normally deals only in U.S. dollars and sterling. Authorized banks are free to deal with customers in other currencies, and base their rates on the Bank of Zambia's rates for the U.S. dollar and the current London market rates for the currencies con- cerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to commercial banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange. The con- trol of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Commerce, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia has ceased to be a Scheduled Territory in terms of the U.K. Exchange Control Act, 1947 but under current U.K. exchange control regulations con- tinues to be regarded as a country of the Overseas Sterling Area. Authorized payments, including pay- ments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries other than Rhodesia may be made in Zam- bian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian currency. Payments from residents of countries other than Rho- desia may be received in sterling or in Zambian cur- rency from an External Account, or in any foreign currency freely exchangeable for U.S. dollars or ster- ling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rho- desia. All permitted payments to residents of Rhodesia must be made in Rhodesian currency, in Zambian cur- rency to an External Account—Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom, in U.S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars. Proceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U.S. or Canadian dol- lars. 540 Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of countries other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of Zambia, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign cur- rency except Rhodesian currency by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Zambia, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any for- eign currency other than Rhodesian currency from au- thorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian currency held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with nontransferable capital sums in Zambian currency and with any unremittable portion of rents which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Nor- mally, approval is given for the investment of balances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an autho- rized dealer. The interest on blocked account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, which is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Virtually all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited, as is the import from all countries of certain specified commodities for health, safety, or moral reasons. Per- sonal and household effects, samples, diplomatic ship- ments, and means of transportation entering Zambia temporarily do not require individual import licenses, nor do any other goods for personal use and consump- tion, provided that the person importing them does not import more than K 50 worth of such goods in any period of 90 days. The two major mining companies and the Ministry of Health are granted "blanket li- censes" for bona fide requirements. The Controller of Customs is authorized to admit emergency goods im- ported without prior reference to the Ministry of Com- merce. All other imports require individual import licenses. Import licensing aims at containing imports within a quarterly exchange allocation established by the Min- istry of Commerce in consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Zambia. All imports under individual licensing are first divided into SITC1 three-digit groups and further subdivided into end-use groupings. Exchange allocations are specified for each of these categories. Normally raw materials, intermedi- ate goods for further processing in Zambia, pharmaceu- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ticals, and fuel and electricity are licensed liberally; alcoholic beverages, tobacco, durable consumer goods, and other consumer goods are licensed restrictively. No licenses are being issued for 23 items, mostly luxury foods tuffs. The M in is try of Commerce has designated seven import agencies as authorized to allocate foreign exchange among individual applicants. These agencies are Indeco Industrial Holdings, National Import and Export Corporation, Steelbuild Holdings, Motor Trad- ers Association, Ministry of Health, Zambia Railways, and Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation. Foreign exchange for import payments is automatically made available once an import license has been obtained, subject to presentation of the relevant documents to an authorized bank. Prior approval by the Bank of Zam- bia, however, is necessary for payments to Rhodesia and South Africa in excess of K 20,000; payments for imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are not nor- mally permitted unless no alternative source of supply is available. Unless prior permission is otherwise ob- tained, all imports must be paid for within six months of the date of importation. All dutiable imports are subject to a customs surcharge of 10 per cent ad valo- rem. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control authorities, ex- cept when payments and transfers in excess of K 20,000 to Rhodesia or South Africa are involved. Special reduced allocations apply to payments for invis- ibles to Rhodesia, and authorized dealers are not per- mitted to make foreign exchange available for travel to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is K 20 a day for an adult, with a maximum of K 600 for each period of two calendar years, and K 10 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a maximum of K 300 for two calendar years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. Ap- plications for amounts exceeding the limits may in cer- tain circumstances be granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that exceptional treat- ment is justified. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for advertising, management, accounting, administrative, engineering, and consulting services rendered to residents by nonresidents are subject to individual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which gen- erally grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable and that these services can- not be provided domestically.2 Profits and dividends of subsidiaries and branches of companies whose head offices are situated outside Zambia may be transferred abroad up to 30 per cent of the nonresident share of the ZAMBIA equity capital or one half of net profits accruing to the nonresident owners of incorporated companies, which- ever is smaller.3 Foreign companies operating in Zam- bia may remit declared profits and dividends once a year after the end of the accounting year. The remit- tance of depreciation allowances is not permitted. Re- mittances of rents to nonresidents are restricted to 50 per cent of net annual rental income. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia on a contract basis and recruited after December 4, 1971 are allowed to remit to their country of domicile a third of their annual earnings. Foreign nationals recruited before De- cember 4, 1971 and still employed on a contract en- tered into prior to that date are allowed to remit to their country of domicile one half of their annual earnings. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrange- ments are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, education, maintenance, etc. To facilitate pay- ments of small amounts, individuals are freely permit- ted to remit abroad up to K 10 a month for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities (including family maintenance). Travelers may not take out more than K 10 in Zam- bian currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license; minerals, however, are exported under general agree- ments with the mining companies. The export of certain metals is reserved, in principle, for an official agency, the Metal Marketing Corporation, but by the end of 1974 the implementing arrangements had not yet been agreed. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Cer- tain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and jute bags. For most goods, however, export li- censes are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment; the foreign ex- change proceeds of copper exports, however, must be credited to a Bank of Zambia account in London upon receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, except that travelers from Zaire are allowed to import only up to the equiva- lent of K 20. The import of Zambian currency is lim- ited to K 10 for each traveler, except travelers from Zaire, who are allowed up to K 20. 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted but, with the exception of overseas short-term financing of imports other than certain capital goods, all borrowing outside Zambia requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Outward transfers of capital are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources out- side Zambia. Local borrowing by companies controlled either directly or indirectly from outside Zambia is re- stricted to a debt/equity ratio of 1 to 2. However, the Bank of Zambia permits borrowings in excess of this limit for certain priority sectors of the economy, pro- vided the borrowings secure higher employment oppor- tunities and /or savings of foreign exchange. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are re- quired to offer for sale to an authorized bank any for- eign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges abroad, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Per- sons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 5,000 for a family unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 3,000, together with K 250 for each child, up to a maximum of K 4,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed K 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 1,500. In addition to their emigration allowance, emigrants may remit gratuities, compensa- tion payments, and terminal benefits up to a maximum of K 8,000 on departure, and up to K 5,000 as annual transfers. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zam- bia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, resi- dents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require exchange control approval as well as import or export licenses issued by the Minis- ter of Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. 542 Gold-bearing slime is exported by copper companies as a by-product for refining and sale abroad. Foreign ex- change for imports of gold may only be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. Changes during 1974 January 2. Authorized dealers were advised that the use by importers of usance letters of credit and short-term bills raised overseas was being restricted. With effect from January 15, importers required Bank of Zambia approval to avail themselves of short-term foreign financing facilities; such approval would be granted in exceptional circumstances only. Also, fi- nancing fees levied by shipping or confirming houses or other overseas financing organizations (other than those relating to arrangements concluded prior to Jan- uary 15) could not be paid by importers without spe- cific prior exchange control approval. Letters of credit opened on a "sight" basis continued to be permitted. No usance letters of credit, bills, acceptances, or similar financing instruments representing claims on Zambian residents or companies could be held from January 15 by authorized banks, for collection for or on behalf of overseas correspondent banks or other overseas resi- dent entities, other than those negotiated by such resi- dents or companies prior to that date. The measure was intended to reduce exchange risks and interest charges, not to delay or restrict imports. March 18. Gifts to nonresidents could no longer be made by persons under 16. March 30. Authorized dealers were advised that the requirement to refer to the Bank of Zambia all pay- ments in foreign exchange on account of or on behalf of the two major copper companies was withdrawn. Authorized dealers could again provide the necessary foreign exchange within their delegated powers. May 15. The basic exchange allowance for business travel was increased from the equivalent of K 30 a day to K 40 a day, for up to 21 days (previously 15 days) in any calendar year and not more than two trips a year. August 2. Authorized dealers no longer were allowed to provide foreign exchange for travel to Rhodesia. September 12. The restrictions on remittances of profits, dividends, and rents were extended for another year. October 17. The restrictions imposed in January on short-term foreign financing of imports were with- drawn for consumer goods and all other goods, except capital goods for agriculture, industry, transportation, and construction. In principle, such capital goods still had to be financed locally, but importers could, subject to Bank of Zambia approval, arrange credit abroad provided that the rate of interest was reasonable. October 17. It was announced that no import licenses would be issued for a group of 23 commodities, mainly luxury foodstuffs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution November 13. The exchange allowance that autho- rized dealers could approve for education abroad was increased to K 3,000 a student a year, except for study in Rhodesia, for which the basic allowance remained unchanged. November. In compliance with the guidelines laid down by the Council of Copper Exporting Countries, Zambia announced a reduction in its copper sales abroad for 1975. NOTES 1 S tandard In te rna t ional Trade Classification. 2 Services rendered by a parent company abroad to its branch or who l ly owned subsidiary in Zambia are not gener- ally approved. 3 An aud i tor's cer t if ica te must be subm i t ted to the effect th at the amount sought to be t rans fe r red represents bona f ide realized p ro f i ts derived f rom the year's operations a f t er f u ll provision has been made for local taxa t ion. The p ro f it and loss account and balance sheet for the year in respect of which app l ica t ion is being made mu st also be subm i t ted. ZAMBIA 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of " * " " n a t s i n a h g f A r I A r t i r - lp \ / I IT c t a t i ic 2 Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins 3 in terms of: (a).- U.S. dollar (b) sterling (c) French f r a nc (d) South African rand or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mutual intervention ar- rangements) f (J) a composite of currencies 4. Exchange rate not maintained within relatively narrow margins as in (#)—(/) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital transactions and /or some or all inv is ib les 6. Import rate(s) different from export rate(s; 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions4 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transac t ions4-5 1 1 . Prescription of currency 12. Bilateral payments a r rangemen ts 13. Bilateral payments arrangements wi nonmem ers 16. Surrender of export proceeds reou ired 1 7. Part of French Franc Area or Sterling Area - 18. Participates in regional economic cooperation6 • • • Appendix Countries' Restrictive Systems country survey) 2 >> <u o.c 03 Q - - D n e m a r k - - - - D o m i n i n a c R b u p e i l c - - 0 73 03 3 CJ W - - a,>> 00 W - E l S a l o d a v r - - E a u q t o i r a l G u i a e n - - - - 03 'B, to 15 m - - - - 'PU - - ~ - 73 C J2 _d PU - - " r e e n a - - - c 203 O - - - e h ~ G a m b i a - - - "o d.o> OS 73* 1> UH >> C 03 <U O - - - 03 C 03 JC O - - G r e c e e G a u t e m a l a - - G u i a e n - 03 C 03 >i 3 O - - 'o3 X - - - H u d n o r s a - - - 5fl C 0X so c o E - - - - e c l d n a .2 73c: - s e n o d n i a - - c 03 - 0" 03 -o C 03 U - - ~ <L> 03 - _X - - 03 0 U >~> o> - - - a m a i a c - - e 03a 03 - - - - C 03-a % - For key and foo tno tes, see page 548. 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • — • • — • • • • — • • • • — — • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • — • • • • — • • • • • • — • — • • • • • • — • • • • • Analytical Principal Features of Member (as at date of 2. A r t i c le XIV s ta tus 3. Exchange rate ma in ta ined w i th in relatively na r row m a rg in s3 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (6) sterling (c) French f ranc (d) South Afr ican rand or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mu tual intervention ar- rangemen ts) (/) a composite of currencies 4. Exchange rate not ma in ta ined w i t h in re la t ive ly narrow ma rg ins 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all cap i tal t ransac t ions and /or some or all inv i s ib les 6. Im p o rt ra te(s) d i f f e r e nt f rom 9. Res tr ic t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of current transac t ions4 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital t ransac t ions4-5 1 1 . Prescription of cu r rency 12. B i la te ral p a ym e n ts a r r a n g em e n ts 13. B i la teral paymen ts a r rangemen ts 14. Im p o rt su rcha rges 1 5 . A d v a n c e im p o r t d e p o s i t s 16. Su r render of export proceeds r e q u i r e d 17. Part of French Franc Area or Sterling Area 18. P a r t i c ip a t es in regional economic coop e r a t ion" i 03 >> 1 - K h m e - f R b u p e i l c - - 03 <U> O X - - - 1£ - - % 03_) - - L n o n a b e I - - o.c Ifo> J £ - - J - - - D. 1> VL X) 03 < I'_J 0 - M a l s a g a y R b u p e i l c - - M a l a w i M a l y a s i a - -J 03 _ - - $ "03 _ - M u a t i r n a i a _ - - M u a i t i r u s - M x e i o c | _ - - oo§ 1 - - I _ - N e t e h r l d n a s __ - - - N e t e h l r d n a s A n l l i t s e _ - - - N e w Z a e l d n a _ 0 - N i a c r a u g a - - & zl __ - - c«i 9 _ - For key and foo tno tes, see page 548. 546 1. Article VIII status as in (a)-(f) above export rate (s) 7. More than one rate for imports 8. More than one rate for imports with nonmembers with nonmembers ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Appendix Countries' Restrictive Systems country survey) 2 ] N o r w y a - - c 03 o - P k a i s t n a P a n a m a - - - P a r y a u g a - - - 3 1 - - h P i l i p p i s e n - - - o P t r a g u l - •_ .5en 0 - - R o m n a i a - w R a d n a 0 - - j5 < •5 03 3 03 00 - - - £0)o> <u CO - <u 0 OJJ & <U lo - S i o p a g n r e o S m a i l a - - CJ '—< x; 3 0 CO - - _c 5o, CO - ^c 03J 5 c 03•o 3 00 - u S i r a n m - - - S w z a l i d n a - - S w n e d e - - ~ rj C£ X) < C >, V) - T n a z n a i a - - T a h l i d n a - - - 0 GO 0 - - T i r n i d a d d n a T o g a b o - - T n u i s i a 7 - - - >-, OJ^J 3 H - •a 03 bfl D 0 - U n t i d e A r b a E m r i a t s e - - E 0-atc 5 •a H c D ^ - - CJ 03 CO •o iJ D 0 - - - For key and foo tno te s, see page 548. 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • — • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Analytical Appendix Principal Features of Member Countries' Restrictive Systems} (as at date of country survey) 2 1. Article V I II status 2. Article XIV status 3. Exchange rate maintained w i th in relatively narrow margins 3 in terms of: (a) U.S. dollar (b) sterling (c) French f ranc (d) South African rand or Spanish peseta (e) a group of currencies (under mu tu al in terven t ion ar- rangements) (/) a composite of currencies 4. Exchange rate not m a in t a in ed w i th in relatively narrow margins as in («)-(/) above 5. Special exchange rate regime for some or all capital t ran sac t ions and /or some or all i n v i s i b l es 6. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent from e x p o r t r a t e ( s ) 7. More than one rate for impo r ts _ 8 . M o r e t h a n o n e r a t e f o r e x p o r t s 9. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current transactions4 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital transactions4-5 1 1 . Prescription of currency 12. B i la teral paymen ts a r r ang em en ts w i th members 13. Bilateral payments arrangemen ts w i th nonmembers 14. Import surcharges 15. Advance import deposits 16. Surrender of export proceeds requ ired 17. Part of French Franc Area or Sterling Area 18. Participates in regional economic cooperation6 1 5 "o i_<u D D, CX - - _ - - _ - - - - U r y a u g u ^ . - - - _ - - - _ - - V e u z e n e l a * « . - - - _ - - _ _ - - - - - - - / £ Z 03 OJ> - - - _ - - _ - - - - W s e t e r n S a m ^ a o - - - - - - . _ - - - - - Y e m n e A r a l * R p e . - - - - - . - - _ - - - - Y e m * n e p o e ? J . D e m . R p e . 1 - - - - - - _ - - - - .5'> 03 1DO 3 > - ~ ~ - - ~ - - ffi *C3N - - - - - - - - - - 03 t C3N - - - - - - - - - - Key and Footnotes • indicates that practice exists; - indicates that practice does not exist; and 0 indicates that position is undetermined. i Practices indicated as existing do not necessarily apply to all transactions. 2 In most cases, December 31, 1974. Where the date is a different one, this is indicated in a footnote. 3 Margins of approximately 21A per cent either side of parity. 4 Payments to member countries. Restrictions in the form of quantitative limits or undue delay other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 5 Resident-owned funds. 6 Membership in, or association w i th, Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area, Arab Common Market, Association of South East Asian Nations, Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, Carib- bean Common Market, Cartagena Agreement, Central African Customs and Economic Union, Central American Common Market, Common Organization of African and Mau r i t ian States, Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance, East African Com- mun i ty, European Economic Commun i ty, European Free Trade Association, Latin American Free Trade Association, League of Arab States, Rand Monetary Area (Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa and Swaz i land) Regional Cooperation for Development (Iran, Pakistan, and Turkey), or West African Customs Union (or West African Economic Commun i ty). 7 Position on January 1, 1975. 548 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • — • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 