 S E V E N T E E N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1966 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL M O N E T A RY FUND Seventeenth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions 1966 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Traiismittal to Members and Governors of the Fund April 28,1966 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transm it to you a copy of the In terna t ional Monetary Fund's Seventeenth Annual Report on Exchange Restric- tions, which has been prepared in accordance w i th the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ PIERRE-PAUL SCHWEITZER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PART I I. Introduction II. Ma in Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions and Discrimination Bilateral Payments Agreements Mu l t ip le Currency Practices and F luc tua t ing Exchange Rates Import Surcharges and Advance Deposits Measures A f f e c t ing Capital III. Regional Arrangements PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys A fghan is tan Algeria Argentina Australia Austria . . . ., Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil British Guiana Burma Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central A f r i c an Republic Ceylon Chad vii Page 1 3 3 4 5 5 6 7 13 19 23 31 44 48 54 61 63 81 85 88 92 99 103 105 110 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo (Brazzav i l le) Congo, Democratic Repub l ic of Costa Rica Cyprus Dahomey Denmark Dominican Repub l ic Ecuador El Salvador Ethiopia Finland France Gabon Germany, Federal Repub l ic of Ghana Greece Guatemala Guinea Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Korea vni 121 131 139 149 154 159 162 167 172 179 181 185 189 192 200 211 216 220 229 238 243 248 249 251 256 261 273 279 284 291 296 306 310 316 323 328 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Kuwait Laos Lebanon Liberia Libya Malagasy Republic Ma lawi Malaysia Mali Maur i tan ia Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand N icaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Pakistan Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia South A f r i ca Spain Sudan Surinam Sweden Switzerland CONTENTS IX 338 343 347 349 350 354 359 364 371 376 380 383 391 395 401 403 409 412 417 424 429 439 441 446 447 451 458 462 463 467 472 476 481 491 498 502 505 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS Syrian Arab Republic Tanzania Thailand Togo Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United A rab Republic United Kingdom United States Upper Volta Uruguay Venezuela Viet-Nam Yugoslavia Zambia 516 523 530 534 538 546 553 562 568 574 592 597 601 609 612 620 627 X ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction The year 1965 and the early months of 1966 did not show a clear pattern of developments in the use of exchange and other restrictions by the Fund's membership as a whole. It was to be expected that, af ter extensive relaxations in the 1950's, the removal of remaining restric- tions would be more and more d iff icu lt and fu r ther progress slower. Much of what liberalization did take place in 1965-66 was in the industrially more advanced countries; but even here there were excep- tions, especially if the varied measures taken to influence capital movements are included. While some developing countries were able to liberalize, intensification of restrictions was more frequent as demands for exchange tended to outstrip the supply. Developments in individual countries reflected domestic policies, but also the way in which their economies were affected by in terna t ional economic develop- ments. Generally, countries wh ich have assumed the obligations of Article VIII of the Fund Agreement —and which as noted in the last Report account for some 70 per cent of world trade —were making less use of restrictions, and some were able fu r ther to reduce that use in 1965-66. With effect f rom Ju ly 1, 1965, Australia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, b r ing ing to 27 the number of members wh ich have rendered their currenc ies convertible under the Articles of Agreement.1 At the outset of 1965 there were a number of disturbing tendencies in the international payments situation. The growth of international trade was noticeably slackening, and the prices of pr imary products were declining. The payments position of many developing countries was under pressure. The two m a jor reserve centers —the United States and the United Kingdom —also had large payments deficits. In the course of 1965 these tendencies changed. Demand increased, the decline of pr imary product prices was reversed in the second ha lf of the year, and export proceeds for the primary producing countries rose again at a more rapid rate. The ba lance of payments deficits of the United States and the United Kingdom were substantially reduced. More broadly, by the end of 1965 increasing attention had once again to be given to the problem of containing inflation. Although these changes were on the whole favo rab le to a reduction of restraints on payments, their nature was not such that the tendencies 1 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kuwait, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Saudi Arabia, Sweden, United Kingdom, and United States. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS of the earlier part of the year were completely overcome. In particular, while the position of the developing countries was aided by the changed environment, their terms of trade again declined in 1965 as a whole, and the rate of growth of exports of the developing countries was little more than half that of the industrial countries. This contrasted with the 1963-64 period, when the developing countries had a much larger share in the rapid expansion of trade. A number o£ developing countries were hand icapped by a continued rapid growth of debt service, arising both f rom an increase in the level of debt and from a tendency to a shorter average term. As a group, developing countries held the rate of growth in their imports (wh ich was about a third of that in developed countries) to substantially less than the rate of growth in their exports, and improved their exchange reserves. Among the industrial countries export increases in 1965 were generally largest for those whose payments positions were already strong and whose restrictions on payments had been largely eliminated. Thus, the member countries of the European Economic Community (EEC )2 had a very sa t is fac to ry expansion of exports; this was partly associated with economic developments in France and Italy, where some easing of domestic demand released resources for export. Exports from the United Kingdom increased and the current account position improved subs tan t ia l ly; imports, however, continued in part to be sub ject to a temporary surcharge. The United States had a somewhat reduced current account surplus as imports grew more rapidly than exports under the stimulus of a domestic expansion significantly greater than that of the rest of the wor ld. In both the United States and the United Kingdom the improvement in the payments position rested heavily on a substantial reduction in the net outflow of capital, in part achieved by restraints on capital movements although in the United States it was aided by increases in interest rates. Japan, on the other hand, was able to strengthen its ba lance of payments position as a result of an increase in exports amounting to more than 25 per cent. In terna t ional cooperative efforts continued toward sustaining a steady and balanced growth of international trade and the elimination of restrictions. Institutional developments have included the setting up of the mach inery of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD ). The In terna t ional Bank for Reconstruction and Development has sought to improve the coordination of aid to developing countries through an expanded program of consultative groups, wh ich have been meeting for ind iv idual developing countries. 2 Belgium, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and Netherlands. 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Circumstances within the EEC inhibited the Kennedy Round of trade negotiations but work was carried on and effor ts are being made to accelerate it. Meanwhile, other effor ts for the expansion of world trade have continued in the UNCTAD and under the General Agree- ment on Ta r i f fs and Trade. The Fund's General Arrangements to Borrow, wh ich enable the Fund to supplement its resources by borrowing up to US$6 billion in the currencies of ten of its industrialized members, were extended for a fu r ther period of f o ur years in October 1965. In February 1966 the required conditions were met for the increase in Fund quotas by 25 per cent, the increase becoming effec t ive for an ind iv idual member with its consent thereto and payment of the additional subscription; there were also a number of special increases. Further discussions con- cerning in terna t ional liquidity have been proceeding both inside and outside the Fund. II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions and Discrimination Dur ing 1965-66, progress was again made by European countries in reducing reliance on import restrictions. Among the countries wh ich fu r ther relaxed restrictions on imports were Austria, Denmark, France, Iceland, Norway, and Spain. Outside Europe, restrictions were relaxed by Braz il and Japan but were intensified by South A f r i c a. Developing countries tended, on balance, toward stricter import controls. A number of A f r i c an countries associated with the EEC fu r ther improved the conditions of access to their markets for the products of the EEC countries. Bu rundi and Rwanda eliminated all quantitative import restrictions, and a few other countries, e.g., Colombia and Korea, achieved some relaxation. Restrictions were increased by a large number of other developing countries. Thus, there was intensification either for protective reasons or for ba lance of payments reasons in Algeria, India, Jama ica, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, and Venezuela. Payments for invisibles were liberalized by Braz i l, Ceylon, Japan, Norway, and Spain, but a few other countries intensified restrictions on such,payments. A number of countries imposed restrictions on trade with, and payments to, Rhodesia, and limitations were placed on the use of Rhodesian balances. India and Pakistan tightened restrictions on transfers to each other. Certain countries reduced import discrimination. Thus, Denmark, Finland, and Spain enlarged the number of countries to which import 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS f r ee lists and global quotas apply, wh i le Austria, Germany, and Italy liberalized add i t ional imports f rom Japan and increased quotas on items still restricted. Moreover, a number of countries —e.g., Denmark, Finland, France, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom —extended liberalized treatment to certain commodities f rom specified Eastern European countries. However, a number of less developed countries introduced or intensified import d iscr im ina t ion against Japan; among these were Jama ica, Kenya, N ige r ia, Tanzan ia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, and Uganda. Bilateral Payments Agreements B i la teral payments arrangements invo lv ing the use of exchange restrictions continue to result in discriminatory practices. The past trend toward progressive elimination by industrial countries of their bilateral payments agreements with Fund members continued in 1965-66, and payments agreements still ma in ta ined by industrial coun- tries are mostly with countries that are not members of the Fund. These latter agreements, also, have been reduced in the period under review. Argentina and Iran terminated the ir rema in ing payments agreements with. Fund members, Japan and Korea abolished their mu tual agree- ment, and the United A r ab Repub l ic term ina ted several of its payments agreements. However, the tendency among developing countries to conclude payments agreements among themselves and with countries not members of the Fund has continued, and the number of agreements ma in ta ined by developing countries who are members of the Fund did not show any marked tendency to decline. A study of developments in bilateralism since the mid-1950's shows that there has been only a relatively small f a ll in the number of bilateral payments arrangements ma in ta ined by countries which are presently members of the Fund. This, however, was the net result of a sharp reduction in the number of arrangemen ts between Fund mem- bers and an increase in those between members and nonmembers, so that the latter have grown to more than two thirds of the total. Further, the bilateral payments arrangements wh ich Fund members were ma in ta in ing ten years ago have been largely eliminated, while countries jo in ing more recen t ly — inc lud ing many newly independent countries —have entered into a substantial number of such arrange- ments. Many of these new arrangements are between countries within the newly independent group or with nonmembers. In some cases, however, the new agreements are not f u l ly operative, e.g., because trade between the partners is no longer being licensed or because settlements are in f a ct outside the bilateral channels. More generally, much more 4 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES trade was financed under agreements wh ich have been eliminated over the past decade than under those which have come into existence during the period. While many difficulties were encountered in the attempt to quan t i fy the effects of these changes and the resulting figures are clearly subject to wide margins of error, the study suggests that the value of exports by Fund members to partners in bilateral payments agreements f e ll f rom something like $6.5 billion in 1954 to some $3 billion in 1964. As a proportion of total exports by Fund members this would be a decline f rom about 8.5 per cent to about 2 per cent. It occurred despite an approximate doub l ing of exports under bilateral payments agreements with nonmembers. Multiple Currency Practices and Fluctuating Exchange Rates A substantial number of countries continues to rely on multiple currency practices, some involving fluctuating rates. Dur ing 1965-66, India introduced certain practices, Somalia imposed an exchange tax on most purchases of exchange, and Viet-Nam applied a new rate for most invisibles; Pakistan increased the scope and complexity of its export bonus scheme. On the other hand, Braz i l's exchange system was simplified considerably by such measures as the abolition of exchange taxes on import payments, the reduction of those on financial remittances, and the elimination of the discount on b i la teral agreement currencies. Late in the year steps were taken to allow the cruzeiro to depreciate in the exchange market. Simplification and depreciation also occurred in A fghan is tan and U ruguay; in the Philippines (where a new par value was es tab l ished), Ceylon, and Korea multiple rate practices were eliminated. In Colombia there was an extensive exchange re fo rm involving depreciation of the rates but without reducing their number. Further depreciation of existing rates also took place in Argen t ina, Chile, and Korea. Changes of generally lesser impact were made in the exchange systems of some other countries, e.g., Laos and the Syrian A rab Republic. Import Surcharges and Advance Deposits Some countries that experienced ba lance of payments problems introduced or raised import surcharges, viz., Ceylon, India, Ireland, and Pakistan, while Ceylon extended their coverage. The surcharge of 15 per cent in the United Kingdom was, however, reduced to 10 per cent in Apr il 1965. Braz il took certain goods out of the system of auc- tioning import licenses and increased the total value of licenses offered, thus reducing the cost of importing under the system. In addition to such measures, some countries, e.g., India and Pakistan, introduced advance deposit requirements, wh i le their scope 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS was widened in Iran and Uruguay. In the Dominican Republic deposits were increased on most consumer luxury items but the categories of exempted items were redefined and expanded. The requirements in Argentina, Colombia, and Japan were lowered. Burundi and Pakistan reduced the scope of their deposit requirements later in the year, and Braz i l, India, and N icaragua eliminated them; B raz il also reduced its guarantee deposits. M inor ad jus tmen ts were introduced in the Philip- pines, while Greece continued the reduction of the required deposits. Measures Affecting Capital For a variety of reasons, inc lud ing purely f iscal ones, a number of industrial countries took measures that may be expected to affect the size and direction of capital flows. In some cases these measures did not involve the introduction or adaptation of exchange restrictions but new tax legislation and other measures likely to inf luence decisions based on cost considerations. Among these measures were changes in w i thho ld ing taxes or company taxation, the signing or renegotiation of double-taxation agreements, and certain directives to commercial banks governing their fore ign assets and liabilities. In France, author- ized banks were permitted to grant free ly credits in French f rancs to foreign correspondents for a period not exceeding six months, and nonresidents were permitted to buy and sell freely shares of French open-end mutual fund s. The Federal Republic of Germany levied a withholding tax on income accru ing to nonresidents f rom fixed-interest German securities and abolished the tax on certain securities issued in Germany. Italy relaxed restrictions on direct investment in the area of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Develop- ment and on the granting of long-term loans to that area. The Netherlands increased the w i thho ld ing tax on dividends on shares in Netherlands companies. In Switzerland, the measures adopted in 1964 providing for strict detailed controls over nonresident-owned funds and over investment of such funds in Switzerland were extended until 1967, but the controls were relaxed somewhat early in 1966. Also, with certain exceptions, Liechtenstein was assimilated with Swiss territory for the purpose of the Swiss regulations concerning the treatment of foreign fund s. The United Kingdom and the United States strengthened measures designed to reduce the outflow of capital. In the United Kingdom the regulations governing the investment currency market were changed so as to channel into the off ic ial reserves a certain portion of such currency, wh ich results ma in ly f rom the sale by residents of fore ign currency securities. Moreover, the United Kingdom authorities dis- continued the allocation of o f f ic ial exchange for direct investment out- 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS side the Sterling A rea; all such investment, unless financed by borrow- ing outside the Sterling Area, was to be made with investment currency, for which the premium over the off ic ial rate rose considerably. Measures were also taken in the United Kingdom to prevent abnormal advance payments for imports. In addition, the general permission to banks to grant loans to corporate bodies in the Sterling Area and controlled by nonresidents was withdrawn. The United States extended the validity of the Interest Equalization Tax until the end of July 1967 and increased the transactions covered and the geographic area of its application. An unders tand ing was reached with the Canad ian Govern- ment regarding Canada's access to the U.S. capital market under exemption f rom the Interest Equalization Tax; Canad ian policy was to be directed toward limiting inflows of funds f rom the United States to amounts required for maintenance of an appropriate level of Canadian fore ign exchange reserves. Moreover, the United States introduced a voluntary program, embodied in sets of "guidelines," to discourage capital exports by banks, nonbank financial institutions, and nonf inanc ial businesses; the guidelines" were sharpened toward the end of the year, and more industries were brought under the program. A number of developing countries took measures to encourage the inflow of fore ign capital by guaranteeing the repatriation of capital and t rans fer of profits, and by granting various privileges. Among the countries which introduced foreign investment laws for this purpose were Bolivia, Portugal, and Togo, while Morocco and Senegal supplemented their existing legislation on this subject. Braz il issued a decree implementing an amended Profit Remittance Law, liberalizing t rans fe rs on account of repatriation of registered foreign capital and income therefrom. III. Regional Arrangements The six member countries of the EEC took fu r ther steps toward the establishment of a customs and economic union. The agreement of December 15, 1964 to establish common grain prices on July 1, 1967 had initiated the progress toward the integration of agricultural markets. However, in 1965 the Council of Ministers could not reach agreement on a proposal by the EEC Commission for completion of the customs union ahead of the schedule set out in the Treaty of Rome. There was general agreement on setting July 1, 1967 as the date for mak ing the common external ta r i ff fu l ly effective, but no agreement could be reached on the financial arrangements to be associated with the establishment of a single market for agricultural goods. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Further progress was made in reduc ing t a r i f f s, and the Community began in Janua ry 1966 the th ird and final stage of its transitional period toward an economic and customs union. On January 1, 1965 and again on Janua ry 1, 1966 in ternal duties on industrial products were reduced by fu r ther steps of 10 per cent, to 20 per cent of their 1957 level; internal ta r i f fs on ag r icu l tu ral products not coming under the levy system were reduced to 35 or 40 per cent of their original levels. These reductions were also applied to the A f r i c an and Malagasy States associated with the Community and, for industrial products, to Greece. The association between the EEC and the 18 A f r i c an and Malagasy States completed its first year in 1965. A number of specified products of the associated countries entered the member states of the Com- munity du ty - f ree, and reduced duties were applied for these products when imported f rom third countries. For the countries and territories maintaining special relations with France and the Netherlands, duties were eliminated not only between the territories and the Community but also among the territories. Negotiations were concluded in July between the EEC and Nigeria for an association agreement, and a treaty was d ra f ted for approval by the Council of Ministers and ratification by the member states. Discussions were held between the EEC and Austria on an association agreement, and negotiations for trade agreements began with Tunisia and Morocco, and with Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. On May 21, 1965, the EEC and the member states signed a three-year trade and cooperation agreement with Lebanon. The agreement provides for most-favored-nation clauses and coordination of the EEC member states' technical assistance to Lebanon. On December 31, 1965 the members of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) and Finland 3 reduced their intraregional ta r i f fs on industrial products f rom 30 per cent to 20 per cent of their 1960 levels. At the end of 1966 these t a r i f fs are in general due to be abolished. On March 1, 1965, Finland's ta r i f fs were reduced to 30 per cent of 1961 levels; the 10 per cent reduction on December 31, 1965 kept Finland in line with the reductions by the other EFTA countries, but fu r ther action is scheduled to take place through two reductions of 10 per cent, on December 31, 1966 and on December 31, 1967. In the case of Portugal, the period for complete removal of ta r i f fs may be extended until 1980. The Governments of the United Kingdom and Ireland signed an agreement establishing a Free Trade Area on December 14, 1965. The 3 Austria, Denmark, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom are members of EFTA. Finland is an associate member. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS agreement provides for the removal by the United Kingdom on Ju ly 1, 1966, and by Ireland over a nine-year transitional per iod, of import duties and other restrictions on substantially all the trade between the two countries. Trade in the goods excluded f rom the Free Trade Area, and in certain cotton textiles temporarily excluded f r om it, is governed by two supplementary agreements. A fu r th er agreement reduces the period a f ter wh ich Irish store an ima ls q u a l i fy for U.K. fatstock guar- antee payments and provides for certain payments to be made to Ireland on limited quantities of carcass meat exported to the United Kingdom. Further progress toward Central Ame r ican integration was made in 1965. In February of that year a protocol to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration entered into force, introducing a common customs code for the five signatory nations.4 In March ,a revised Charter of the Organization of Central Amer ican States (ODECA) entered into force establishing, inter alia, the Central American Economics Council. The Council is to be charged with planning, coordination, and execution of Central American eco- nomic integration. A fu r ther protocol to the Central American Agree- ment on the Equa l iza t ion of Import Duties and Charges was signed in November, and a Central American Integration Fund was established for the purpose of financing in f ras t ruc tu re pro jec ts for the entire region. In December 1965 Venezue la was accepted as the tenth member of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) ;5 Venezuelan action to ra t i fy the LAFTA Treaty has not yet been completed. During the annual conference of the Association, the members agreed to extend tar iff concessions on some 850 products, in comparison with concessions on about 230 products in 1964, and inc lud ing for the first time manufactures and semimanufactures. At a meeting of foreign ministers f rom LAFTA countries an agreement was reached to establish a Ministerial Council and an independent technical body that is to make recommendations on the transition of the Association to a Latin American Common Market. On September 22, 1965 the central banks of the LAFTA countries signed an agreement for a multilateral clearing system, according to which central banks may provide each other with reciprocal lines of credit under mutual guarantees of convertibility and transferability. Bilateral balances are to be settled bimonthly and cleared through an agent (the Central Bank of Peru). * Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. 6 Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Australia and New Zealand concluded a Free Trade Agreement on August 31, 1965, covering 60 per cent of intraregional trade. Elimina- tion of in ternal import duties took place on Janua ry 1, 1966 for scheduled goods subject to duties not exceeding 5 per cent, and is to take place, in two stages within two years, for goods subject to import duties of between 5 per cent and 10 per cent, and within eight years at a b ienn ial rate of 20 per cent for scheduled goods subject to import duties of more than 10 per cent. An agreement prov id ing for du ty - f ree treatment of trade in certain automotive products was signed between Canada and the United States on Janua ry 16, 1965, and entered into fo rce on Janua ry 18, 1965 (in the United States by retroactive legislation passed on December 20,1965). An t igua, Barbados, and British Gu iana have signed an agreement to establish a f ree trade area by September 1, 1966 for these territories. The members of the East A f r i c an currency un ion (Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda) decided to dissolve the Currency Board, to assume ind iv idual monetary authority, and to establish national currency regulations. The East A f r i c an Common Market, however, is continuing. On Janua ry 1, 1966 the agreement of December 8, 1964 on the Central A f r i c an Economic and Customs Union entered into force, thereby rep lac ing the Equa tor ial Customs Union between the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B r a z z a v i l l e ), Gabon, and the asso- ciate member, Cameroon. The new agreement retained the basic features that had governed the Equa tor ial Customs Union since 1959. In addition, it provided for certain intra-area harmonization, for the f ree movement of labor, and for the un if ica t ion of all import taxation, of customs nomenc la ture, and of exemptions f rom customs duties. 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the mem- ber countries of the Fund, inc lud ing f o ur nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange systems of three other countries wh ich were not members of the Fund at the time this Report was written are also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1965. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems ^t a later date or include re fe rences to significant develop- ments which took place early in 1966. The description of an exchange system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of de f in i t ion and jur isd ic t ion have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the ta r i ff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such fea tures as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the section "Changes during 1965" may include references to certain developments that have a direct impact on in terna t ional transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as m a jor revisions of import t a r i f fs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in d ra f t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system dur ing 1965 and, for a few countries, the early months of 1966. An indication of the subject matter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, and/or the o f f ic ial exchange rates are given, usually in terms of the U.S. dollar, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the surveys of certain countries with multiple exchange rate systems, fu r th er details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see be low ). The rates quoted are those effective as at December 31, 1965, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or autonomous territories whose residents have common rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Under Administration of Control, some ind ica t ion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to wh ich their powers are delegated for prac t ical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the requirements a f fec t ing the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded pay- ments agreements with other countries or monetary areas, the terms of these agreements o f ten lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and f r om the countries concerned. The countries with wh ich bilateral payments agreements are in fo rce are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has in terna t ional importance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by nonresidents in accounts with authorized banks. Payments to and f rom such non- resident accounts are then regarded as equ iva lent to settlements in foreign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an ind ica t ion is given of the manner in wh ich the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the na ture and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import l icens ing requirements are described br ief ly, and details are given of the additional require- ments imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," wh ich is used in some countries, indicates arrangemen ts whereby certain imports or other international transac t ions are exempt f rom the restrictive app l i- cation of licensing requirements, in contrast to an " ind iv idual license," which may be either given f ree ly, or restricted in its issue, accord ing to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily un iversal in their app l ica t ion but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports f rom countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of pe rm i t t ing payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described briefly, together with any limitations on the export of fo re ign and domestic banknotes. For some countries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined w i th the section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles (see be low ). 14 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EXPLANATORY NOTE TO COUNTRY SURVEYS Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the application of export licens- ing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief ou t l ine of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived f rom exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to ind ica te that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his fo re ign exchange against local currency, usua l ly at the o f f ic ial rate, to the central bank or to a commercial bank or exchange dealer au thor ized for this purpose. In some countries there is a requirement that the exchange be sold in a f ree market. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived f rom transactions in invisibles are given and any l im i ta t ions on the import of foreign and domestic banknotes are described. Under Capital, a general ind ica t ion of the special arrangemen ts or limitations attached to in terna t ional receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for fo re ign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt w i th in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Proceeds f rom Invisibles. In the Table of Exchange Rates, wh ich is provided for most coun- tries hav ing a mu l t ip le currency prac t ice invo lv ing more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effec t ive as at the end of December 1965 are given. For convenience, the da ta in these tables are in terms of local currency units per U.S. do l lar. The tables inc lude e f fec t ive rates arising f rom the negotiation of percentages of the to tal exchange at d ifferent rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1965, the more s ign i f icant changes in the country's restrictive system du r ing 1965 are presented in ch rono log ical order. Important measures made e f fec t ive in the early months of 1966 are indicated at the end of the survey or in foo tno tes to the text. 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Country Surveys ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System The par va lue is A f g h a n is 45.00 = US$1. The A fghan is tan Bank (Da A fghan i s tan Bank, the cen tral bank) charges commissions rang- ing f rom %0 of 1 per cent to ]/2 of 1 per cent on exchange transactions. The o f f ic ial buy ing rate applies to the proceeds of exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton, and to 30 per cent of fo re ign exchange receipts of the Government for the f i n a n c i ng of the salaries in a f g h a n is of fo re ign experts. Exchange taxes of 15.56 and 28.89 per cent are payable on the proceeds f rom exports of wool and cotton, respectively. Under certain conditions (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ), a rebate of Af 4 per US$1 is allowed on the exchange tax on the proceeds f rom exports of cotton. The o f f ic ial selling rate applies to fore ign exchange paymen ts by the Governmen t. All other trans- actions take place at f r ee ma rket rates th rough either the banks or the bazaa r. The A f g h a n i s t an Bank at present ma in ta ins its f r ee market rate w i th in Af 2 per US$1 e i ther side of the f r ee market rate quoted in the bazaa r. On December 31, 1965, the f r ee ma rket rate of the A fghan i s tan Bank was Af 73.50 buy ing, Af 74.00 se l l ing, per US$1, and the f r ee ma rket buy ing ra te in the bazaar was Af 73.30 buy- ing, Af 75.80 se l l ing, per US$1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is con t ro l led by the Government through the A fghan i s tan Bank. The con trol is fac i l i ta ted by the existence of rela- tively large companies spec ia l iz ing in the export of such commodities as ka raku l, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over such commodities. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th countries w i th wh i ch A f g h a n i s t an has b i la teral trade and payments agreements must be made in the fo re ign cur- rencies specified in the agreements.1 The proceeds f r om exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton to other coun tr ies must be ob ta ined in convertible currenc ies. There are no other p resc r ip t ion of currency requirements. 1 These countries are Ma in land Ch ina, Czechos lovak ia, Po land, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a b i la teral paymen ts agreement w i th India under which trade in certain commodities is settled through a special account ma in ta ined in inconvertible Indian rupees. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, l iquo r, arms, and ammuni- t ion) are proh ib i ted for social or security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few tex t i les ,-agr icu l tural and food products, and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is proh ib i ted. In gene ra l, there are no quan t i ta t ive restrictions on other imports. Some of the b i la teral agreements, however, spec ify quotas for commodities to be traded, and the Government exercises control to ensure that trade con fo rms with the commitments under- taken in the agreements. On the who le, trade with these countries is carried out on a compensation basis, and usua l ly both imports and exports are a r ranged by the same t r ad e r; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carr ied out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for repayment of government loans. Imports of certain nonessential consumer goods f rom Japan are on ly permitted if equ iva lent A f g h an goods are exported to Japan. Exchange is provided at the o f f ic ial rate for certain imports by the Government. Payments for imports through the bank ing system may be made on ly under letters of credit, against wh ich a local currency deposit of 100 per cent of the va lue of the imports is required upon establishment of the letter of credit. The A fghan i s tan Bank is author- ized to re fuse to sell fo re ign exchange for the importation of a group of consumer goods that are regarded as nonessential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased -either f rom the commercial banks or in the b a z a a r. Payments for Invisibles Government paymen ts for invisibles and payments to fore igners on government contract in A fgh an i s t an are made at the o f f ic ial rate. All other payments are settled at f r ee market rates. Travelers leaving A fghan i s tan may take out not more than Af 500 in A f g h an banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, control is exercised only over exports to bilateral agree- ment countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ). However, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of their total exports to countries f r om wh ich payment w i ll be received in convertible currencies. Exchange receipts f rom exports of ka raku l, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the o f f ic ial ra te; the export proceeds f rom wool and 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN cotton are subject to taxes of 15.56 and 28.89 per cent, respectively. A rebate of Af 4 per U.S. dollar is allowed on the exchange tax on the proceeds f rom exports of cotton in excess of the requirement that at least 20 per cent of total exports of cotton should be made to countries f rom wh ich payment w i ll be received in convertible currencies. Sur- render requirements are also maintained for the proceeds of some other exports to bilateral agreement countries. With this exception, the proceeds of all exports other than ka raku l, wool, and cotton, irrespective of the currency in wh ich they accrue, may be sold at f ree market rates or be used by the exporter to pay for imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Thirty per cent of the fo re ign exchange receipts of the Government for the f inanc ing of the salaries in a fghan is of fo re ign experts must be surrendered at the o f f ic ial rate. Receipts f rom fore ign embassies, lega- tions, and other fo re ign o f f ic ial agencies must be surrendered to the A fghan i s tan Bank at its f ree market buying rate. All other receipts f rom invisibles are sold at f r ee market rates through either the banks or the bazaa r. Travelers entering A fghan i s tan may bring in A fgh an banknotes not exceeding Af 500. Capital All foreign investment in A fghan i s tan requires prior approval, which is granted readily if the investment is deemed conducive to the prosperity and economic and techn ical advancement of the country. The Law Encourag ing the Investment of Private Foreign Capital in A fghan is tan (November 18, 1958) provides tha t, beginning five years a f ter the date of the investment, registered capital may be repatriated through an authorized bank at the f ree rate in annual installments not exceeding one fifth of the amount invested. It also provides that ten years a f ter the date of the investment the entire registered capital may be repatriated at the f r ee rate at any time. The annual repatria- tion of profits up to 15 per cent of registered capital (under the 1958 law or an earlier one) is guaran teed and may take place through an authorized bank at its f r ee rate. Changes during 1965 June 17. The exchange tax on proceeds f rom ka rakul exports was eliminated. June 17. The A fghan i s tan Bank began a policy of keeping its f ree market rate within Af 2 per US$1 either side of the f r ee market rate quoted in the bazaa r. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN June 17. The scope of the off ic ial market was reduced cons iderab ly; official exchange was no longer granted to the Monopoly or to other public or private enterprises, and only the Treasury remained entitled to such exchange. June 22. The exchange tax on proceeds f rom wool exports was reduced f rom 24.44 per cent to 15.56 per cent. July 2. Imports of certain nonessential consumer goods f rom Japan were only permitted if equivalent A f g h an goods were exported to Japan. 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Algeria has been established with the Fund. The o f f ic ial unit of currency is the Algerian Dinar, which is at par with the French f r a n c, giving the relationship DA 4.93706 = US$1. The Central Bank of Algeria deals at par in French f rancs. Buying and selling rates for specified currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area 1 are fixed by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market for these currencies. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance has general jur isd ic t ion over exchange con- trol. The Central Bank of Algeria assists in the fo rmu la t ion of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execu- tion and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, a number of banks have been given authority to carry out much of the detail of exchange control. Import and export licenses for most commodities are issued by the competent ministry or by the Ministry of Commerce. The Off ice National de Commercialisation (ONACO ), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OA IC ), the Societe Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA ), the Service des Alcools, and certain professional associations (groupements professionnels) have a monopoly over the import of cer ta in commodities. Prescription of Currency Algeria is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are generally made in French francs. Settlements with countries with wh ich Algeria has concluded bilateral payments agreements are made through special accounts under the terms of the agreements. Some of these accounts are denominated in Algerian d inars and others in U.S. dollars. Algeria has signed payments agreements with A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, Ma in land Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Gu inea, Hungary, North Korea, Mali, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., the Un i ted A rab Repub l ic, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries are u sua l ly made in French f ranc s, and sometimes in the currency of the country concerned. 1 These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regula- tions pertaining to nonresident accounts are similar to those applied in France; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. For residents of other French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian dinars: Individual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Depar ture Accounts. Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are subject to authorization. Individual Suspense Accounts may be opened without au thor iza t ion and may be credited with payments from any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior authorization f rom the Central Bank of Algeria. They may be credited f ree ly with proceeds f rom the surrender of convertible cu r rency; with proceeds f rom the surrender of f ree ly disposable funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc A r e a; with interest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts; and with pay- ments for imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area. They may be debited free ly for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any country in the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing A lge r ia) ; for any t ran s fer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the French Franc Area other than A lge r ia; and for any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or capital claims. T rans fe rs between these accounts are f ree. Final Departure Accounts may be opened, with pr ior au tho r iza t ion, in the name of any person residing in Algeria, but not of A lger ian nationality, who intends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited f ree ly with an amount equivalent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person conce rned; with proceeds f rom sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the intermediary of a no tary pub l i c; with proceeds accru ing f rom the sale of stocks and other securities and f rom any income, amortization, and redemption in respect of securities, prov ided that the transactions are made through the intermediary of a bank; and with any other payments, up to DA 1,000. These accounts may be debited free ly for all payments in Algeria on beha lf of the account ho lde r; balances of less than DA 5,000 may, sub ject to certain conditions, be t rans fe r red to other parts of the French Franc Area. The Central Bank of Algeria maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agreements. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom bilateral payments agreement countries require a license. A number of specified imports, listed under some 200 tariff headings, subheadings, or their parts, f rom all other countries are prohibited or are subject to e i ther quantitative restriction or a special import procedure; the items inc lude such commodities as butter, cattle, cement, cereals, clothing, co f fee, fish, hides and skins, margarine, matches, meat, melons, m i lk, phosphates, sheep, soap, sugar, tea, tobacco, tomatoes, vegetables, w ine, and passenger cars and other motor vehicles. The Government has the monopo ly over the importation of some of these items through its Off ice National de Commercialisation (ONACO ), the Office Algerien Interprofessionnel de Cereales (OA IC ), the Societe Na t iona le des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA ), or the Service des Alcools, wh i le some of the other items may as a rule be imported only by profess ional associations (groupement professionnel des produits laitiers or GAIRLAC, groupement professionnel des bois or BOIMEX, groupement professionnel de la chaussure or GIAC, groupe- ment professionnel pour les textiles or GITEXTAL, groupement profes- sionnel des cuirs et peaux or GICP, and groupement profession- nel d'achat de rindustrie textile or GAD IT ). Imports of firearms, ammunition, and explosives requ ire an import license f rom the Ministry of the Interior ( f or civil and military firearms) or the Ministry of National Defense ( f or mun i t ions and explosives). A ll other imports f rom countries with wh ich Algeria does not ma in ta in b i la teral pay- ments agreements may be made f ree ly. Liberalized imports not exceeding DA 10,000 in va lue require only the submission of an invoice to the customs. Most l ibera l ized imports whose va lue exceeds this figure are admitted on the basis of a declara- tion completed by the impor ter, but some requ ire an administrative visa, wh ich is stamped on an import attestation. Imports exceeding DA 10,000 in va lue, and all imports for wh ich payment has to be made be fo re the goods reach Algeria, must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to wh ich the necessary import documents must be presented and th rough wh ich all payments related to the transaction must be made. Imports "without payment" (sans paiement), i.e., imports which do not involve compensation of any k ind, f rom the French Franc Area require an authorization by the Ministry of Na t ional Economy if their c . i .f. value exceeds DA 500. For goods imported under the import declaration procedure or with an import license, importers may, as soon as the import has been 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA registered with an authorized bank, purchase the required foreign exchange f rom the bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of a commercial contract approved by the authorities, payment to the foreign exporter may be made only a f ter the shipping documents have been presented to the bank. The importer may also, a f ter hav ing domiciled (registered) the import, open a documentary import credit payable upon presenta- tion of the shipping documents. Payments for Invisibles Residents may t rans fer f ree ly, through postal channels, up to DA 100 a person a month for any purpose to any country. All other pay- ments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. However, when supporting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the post office, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as (1) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, and (4) payments relating to government transactions with foreign com- panies. For other invisibles, the granting of exchange must be au- thorized by the Central Bank. Residents of other French Franc Area countries working in Algeria under the program for techn ical cooperation may t rans fer abroad a certain percentage of their net salaries: 45 per cent for single persons or married persons hav ing their fam i l ies in A lge r ia; 65 per cent for persons having their fam i l ies ab road; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the t rans fer being limited to the duration of their absence f rom A lg e r i a ). For other workers f rom French Franc Area countries who have contracts with employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be trans- ferred are 25 per cent, 45 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumerated above. The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. For residents traveling to other countries, inc lud ing the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 1,000 a person a year (DA 500 for ch i ldren under 15) and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and travel documents. Furthermore, residents traveling by air or sea to a country within the French Franc Area are entitled to an a l loca t ion, in the currency of the country of destination, equivalent to DA 500 a person a trip, on presentation of travel documents certified by the au thor ized in te rmed ia ry; children under 15 are entitled to DA 250. If travel is by means other than air or sea, this allocation is only granted once every six months. Foreign 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA exchange for business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank of Algeria. Funds in EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may be used for business travel. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia can obtain Saudi Arabian riyals up to the equivalent of DA 1,200 a person; the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in banknotes by those traveling overland. Travelers may take out Algerian d inar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain livestock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and certain radio equipment are prohibited. All exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements and some exports to all other countries require licenses. With certain exceptions, exports must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 90 days. After customs clearance, such exports must be registered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 90 days, the exports may be registered only a f ter authorization is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authoriza- tion by the Central Bank, and registration must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports, inc lud ing those to the French Franc Area, may be the object of a 90-day credit and must thereaf ter be collected within 30 days. Foreign exchange proceeds may be used to make authorized payments abroad within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Companies ho ld ing m ine ral rights must repatriate to Algeria 50 per cent of the proceeds f rom their exports of hydrocarbons. Certain percentages of the proceeds f rom most exports may be kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accoun ts; these per- centages are 2 or 5, and the max imum amount to be retained is DA 20,000 per export transac t ion. EFAC accounts are denominated in dinars and are held with the bank at wh ich the export is registered. Certain payments may be made f rom these accounts without prior approval by the Central Bank. All other export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Amounts exceeding DA 500 that are due f rom nonresidents in pay- ment for services must be collected and, if not used to make authorized 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA payments abroad, must be surrendered w i th in one month f rom the date of receipt. There are no restrictions on the import of fore ign banknotes, coins (except gold co in s ), checks, and letters of credit, but foreigners must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Travelers may bring in Algerian d inar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Capital Decree-Law 63-277 of July 26, 1963 establishes a code for foreign investments in Algeria made a f t er July 1, 1962. Such investments can be undertaken to establish new, or to extend existing, enterprises, pro- vided that such enterprises (1) are recognized by the authorities as having economic priority in accordance with programs prepared by the Government, (2) constitute a program of investment of at least DA 5 million, to be carried out in three years, and (3) give rise to the permanent employment of a specified m in imum number of Algerian nationals. Such approved enterprises (entreprises agreees) benefit f rom certain advantages in respect of f iscal charges and other taxes. Moreover, sub ject to the fu l f i l lm ent of certain other conditions (such as the effect that the investment would have on related economic activities and the volume of produc t ion intended for expo r t ), addi- tional privileges relating to certain taxes are accorded to the approved enterprises. The t r an s f er abroad of pa rt of the profits f rom, as well as part of the proceeds f rom the liquidation o f, such investments can be authorized by the Central Bank in accordance with the guarantees provided for in the decree. Add i t ional benefits may be accorded to enterprises covered by a special agreement (entreprises conven- tionnees); these privileges inc lude a guarantee of stability of fiscal charges for up to 15 years. Changes during 1965 Dur ing the period under review a number of imports were added to the list of those that were subject to either quantitative restriction or a special import procedure. January 1. A professional association for textiles —groupement professionnel pour les textiles (GITEXTAL) —was established. It was given the monopoly over the importation of certain textiles and the responsibility of draw ing up an annual import program for the textiles concerned and of a l loca t ing corresponding quotas to its members. January 5. The import procedure to be fo l lowed by professional associations was established. January 11. Balances up to DA 5,000 in Final Departure Accounts could be transferred to other parts of the French Franc Area. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA January 14. Imports f rom all sources of an imal and vegetable oils, oilseeds, and oleaginous f ru i ts were reserved for the Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO ). January 29. Applications for licenses for specified imports had to be submitted to the competent ministries rather than, as previously, to the Ministry of Commerce or the Office Algerien d'Action Commerciale (OFALAC). February 17. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with Hunga ry; the agreement took effect on June 22. February 17. The import of margar ine f rom all sources was reserved for the professional association for milk produc ts —-groupement pro- fessionnel des produits laitiers (GA IRLAC ). March 15. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with R um a n i a; the agreement came into e f fect on July 13. May 4. A professional association for hides and skins —groupement professionnel des cuirs et peaux (G ICP ) —was established. It was given the monopoly over the importation of various types of hides, skins, and leather. May 7. Transfers of up to DA 100 a person a month could no longer be made through authorized banks; such t rans fe rs had to be made by post. May 14- With certain exceptions, means of payment expressed in foreign currencies could no longer be exported by ma i l. June 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Ma in land China, which was signed on September 24,1964, came into effec t. June 22. The b i la teral payments agreement with A lban ia, wh ich was signed on April 4,1964, came into effec t. June 25. The allocation for tourist travel was reduced to DA 1,000 a person a year (DA 500 for ch i ld ren under 15). The additional alloca- tion of DA 500 a person for each jou rney to countries within the French Franc Area could only be taken up once every six months if travel was not by sea or air. June 29. The export of certain petroleum products and of bu tane gas required an ind iv idual license. July 24. Exports of add i t ional commodities requ ired an individual license and became sub ject to quan t i ta t ive restriction by quotas. These included iron and steel scrap, var ious metals, construction materials of iron or steel, ro l l ing stock, and locomotive parts. August 3. The bilateral payments agreement with North Korea, which was signed on October 23,1964, came into effec t. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA September 9. Certain categories of woven fab r ics of synthetic fibers were deleted f rom the list of goods requiring an ind iv idual import license. September 14. The regulations governing EFAC accounts were revised; these accounts had to be held in dinars with the exporter's bank. November 5. The conditions were announced on which agricultural products from the private sector could be exported. November 12. Imports of certain textiles required the approval of GADIT. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System On January 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was estab- lished by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place in an o f f ic ial exchange market (the "single exchange m a rk e t " ), in wh ich the selling rate on December 30, 1965 was M$N 188.50 per US$1. The Central Bank of Argentina operates in the exchange market by buy ing and selling foreign exchange to maintain the U.S. dollar rate w i th in certain limits. Forward exchange transactions may be concluded between ind iv idua ls and authorized banks or among au thor ized banks at f ree ly negotiated exchange rates. Forward exchange purchases by the pub l ic, however, are restricted to import payments made under a documentary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee (aval), and require a 50 per cent deposit in local currency for a period of 180 days. Forward con trac ts concluded as part of a swap transac t ion and fo rwa rd transac t ions among au thor ized banks are exempt from the 50 per cent deposit. The deposit may not be financed by local banks. Administration of Control Exchange transactions must be carried out through banks and institutions authorized expressly for this purpose. The authority to approve certain fo re ign payments has been delegated to the au thor ized institutions. Prescription of Currency Payments to Mexico must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Argen t ina and the Bank of Mexico. Transactions with other countries must be settled in convert- ible currencies or externally convertible European currencies. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos in the name of non- resident correspondent banks. The accounts may be credited with the counterpart of convertible fore ign exchange negotiated in the exchange market and with peso amounts that are t ran s fe rab le abroad. Balances in these accounts may be used to make payments in Argentina. They may also be reconverted into fo re ign exchange for payments abroad or for repatriation, up to the amount of foreign exchange previously sold by the account holder in the exchange market. T rans fe rs between accounts may be effected f ree ly. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Imports and Import Payments Imports are generally f r ee of import and exchange licensing; exchange to pay for them may be purchased in the o f f ic ial market. Some import paymen ts, however, requ i re the specific approval of the Central Bank. Goods imported by o f f i c i al agencies requ ire approval by the Central Bank and the M in is try of Economy if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Impor ts of a number of nonessential or luxury goods are temporar i ly p roh ib i ted; these inc lude certain food s tu f f s, beverages, and indu s t r ial consumer goods. All imports are subject to a tax of 4 per cent on the f re ight charges. Most imports are sub ject to a single import levy (recargo unico], in lieu of the import duties and surcharges in f o r ce pr ior to December 1, 1965. Import taxes inc lude the fo l low ing: a consular fee of 1% per cent payable in fo re ign currency on most import invo ices; statistical taxes of 1% per cent or %0 per cent app l icab le to all impo r ts; taxes rang ing f rom 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest products ( the taxes on logs and sawm i ll produc ts amount to M$N 2 and M$N 8, respec- t ive ly, per square meter by one inch, for impo r ts f rom LAFTA coun- tries) ; and taxes rang ing f rom M$N 200 to M$N 2,000 a ton on imports of iron and steel. Imports covered by var ious indu s t r i al promo t ion measures do not pay the single import levy but con t inue to be sub ject to the import surcharges fixed in the re la t ive decrees and amend ing legislation, and to a 5 per cent import tax ca lcu la ted on the value on which the surcharges were levied. These are ma in ly imports for the automobile industry, for the engine indus try, for the trac tor industry, and for the textile mach ines indus try. Prior to the in troduc t ion of the single import levy, imports were grouped in lists acco rd ing to the ir essen- t ia l i ty and domestic p roduc t ion. Surcharges were established for these lists, independen t ly of the customs duties payab le in acco rdance with the Schedule of Va lua t ions. Except for goods in List 1 ( f u e l s, some metals, rubber, newsprint, e t c . ), surcharges on the c. & f. va lue of the invoice, on the index price established for the commodity concerned, or on its normal import value,1 were payab le be fo re in i t ia t ion of customs clearance at rates rang ing f rom 5 per cent to 235 per cen t. Imports of automobiles were sub ject to special surcharges acco rd ing to weight and va lue. Imports of par ts used in the domestic m a n u f a c t u re of automobiles were sub ject to a fixed surcharge up to cer ta in percentages of the c. & f. va lue of the au tomob i le; these percentages were being 1 In many cases, surcharges and import duties were assessed on index prices (aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per un i t. Where no index price had been estab- lished, surcharges were levied on the c. & f. invoice v a lu e, or, if the no rmal import value was considerably higher, on the latter. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA decreased annua l ly acco rd ing to a previously approved production p lan. Mach ine ry and ma ter ia ls for vital indus tr ies (pe t ro leum, coa l, steel, power, ra i lroads, e tc . ), mach ine ry for the es tab l ishment of industries in developing areas, and cap i tal goods related to fo re ign investment were exempt f rom payment of surcharges. An advance import deposit of 50 per cent of the c. & f. value is required on many imports f r om all sources; goods imported f rom LAFTA countries are exempt if the goods are inc luded in A rgen t ina 's concession lists ( inc lud ing the special lists for Ecuador and P a r a g u a y ), and certain imports f rom Bolivia also are exempt. The deposit is payab le in pesos and ca lcu la ted at the current exchange rate in the o f f ic ial market. It must be lodged with the Cen tral Bank be fo re any of the fo l low ing actions can be unde r taken: open ing a letter of cred i t; w i thd raw ing sh ipp ing documents f r om the in te rmed ia ry b a n k; purchas ing fo rw a rd exchange; mak ing advance paymen ts for impor ts; or clearing goods th rough customs. The deposit is r e f u n d ed a f ter 180 days, provided that the goods have been cleared th rough customs. About 80 per cent of total imports are exempt f rom advance deposits. The exemptions inc lude the f o l l ow i n g: capital goods, vegetable seeds, pedigree an ima ls, fe r t i l ize rs, pesticides, and var ious f u e l s; impor ts by certain nonp ro f it ins t i tu t ions; electronic valves specified in a LAFTA "complementarity agreemen t"; drugs and med ic ines; imports for veterinary or phy topa tho log ical purposes; imports by o f f ic ial agenc ies; raw materials for specified enterprises or firms; road construction mach ine ry; a i rp lane engines and parts for pr iva te civil av ia t ion; imports by the sh ipbu i ld ing indu s t ry; imports of certain ma ter ia ls by the iron and steel indus t ry; imports by the Mixed Iron and Steel Company (SOMISA) and the Greater Buenos Aires E lec tr ical Service Company (SEGBA ); and imports by e lec t r ical cooperatives and the Italo-Argentine E lec tr ical Company (C IADE ). To prevent unau tho r ized cap i tal movements, all import paymen ts require documen tary evidence of the bona fide na tu re of the trans- action. Some import paymen ts requ ire the specific approval of the Central B a n k; these inc lude paymen ts by automobile m anu f a c tu r e rs for imports of raw materials and equ ipmen t, and payments for most imports of cap i tal goods. Payments for specified capital goods valued at over US$5,000, w i th the exception m a in ly of those imported f rom LAFTA countries, must be made in ins ta l lmen ts over a period rang ing f rom at least two years to at least n ine years a f t er the date of shipment, depend ing on the total va lue of the goods. Foreign exchange for import payments may be purchased in the "single" exchange market, sub ject in a few cases noted above to pr ior approval of the Central Bank. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Payments for Invisibles The banks and institutions authorized to deal in fore ign exchange are permitted to sell exchange for many categories of invisibles up to established limits, sub ject in appropr ia te cases to the submission of documentary evidence or sworn declarations of the bona fide nature of the transaction. Transfers in excess of the established limits require the authorization of the Central Bank. Exchange is granted up to US$25 a person a trip (US$400 during the summer season for adults or US$200 for persons under 18) for travel to U ruguay; up to US$100 a person a month for travel to Bolivia, B raz i l, Chile, Paraguay, and Peru; and up to US$400 a person a trip (US$200 for a person under 18) for travel to other countries. Exchange for medical treatment abroad is granted up to US$1,000 a person, as of ten as considered necessary by the Ministry of Social Assistance and Public Health. Remittances for students abroad are allowed up to US$300 for each student a mon th; in addition, up to US$200 may be transferred as a one-time installation allowance and up to US$50 every month for a student's w i fe and each of his children. Family remittances are allowed up to M$N 10,000 a quarter for each beneficiary subject to certain conditions. Payments for purchases of books and medicines and for subscriptions to newspapers and magazines by private ind iv idua ls are permitted up to M$N 5,000 a person a quarter. Remittances for purchases of books and subscriptions to newspapers and magazines by Chambers of Commerce-and Industry and cultural organizations, other than pub l ic libraries, are limited to M$N 20,000 a purchaser a qua r te r; books and magaz ines of a scientific or technical na ture are exempt from this limitation. Remit- tances of trade commissions are limited to 6 per cent of the c. & f. value of imports and 6 per cent of the f .o .b. value of exports. Transfers of profits, payments for current invisibles not listed above, and payments in excess of the limits listed above require the prior authori- zation of the Central Bank; examination of the applications has been delegated to the authorized banks. Certain overdue remittances (ma in ly in respect of profits, dividends, interest, and royalties) are being effected in fore ign exchange. Creditors who do not request cash remittances may instead acquire corre- sponding amounts of 5 per cent External Bonds denominated and payable in U.S. dollars. Interest and amortization on such bonds are transferable. The export of gold coins or bullion and of domestic and foreign banknotes requires the prior approval of the Central Bank; travelers, however, may take out f ree ly in the fo rm of fore ign banknotes 10 per cent of their travel allowance. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are f ree of direct controls but, in general, exporters are required to repatriate and sell in the "single" exchange market the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports within 10 work ing days after shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports of chilled meat to the United Kingdom in excess of their provisionally declared value, and proceeds f rom exports of newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, printed music, and books printed and published in Argentina must be surrendered within 10 days a f ter collection. Proceeds f rom exports of petroleum products must be surrendered within 180 days a f ter loading. Proceeds f rom nontraditional exports for wh ich payment is received within 180 days a f ter loading, and wh ich are covered by an irrevocable documentary credit or by d r a f ts of similar duration, must be sur- rendered within 10 work ing days a f t er the due date. The proceeds of exports to Chile for wh ich payment is made within 120 days f rom either the date of the bill of lad ing in the case of sea transport, or the date of arrival at a Chilean Government warehouse in other instances, must be surrendered within 10 working days a f t er the due date. Exporters of malted barley and brewers' malt must surrender the export proceeds within 45 days a f ter shipment. Some products are sub ject to retention taxes calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on the index values fixed by the Advisory Commission on Export Values, on wh ich the Na t ional Grain Board, the National Meat Board, the Departments of Agr icu l ture, Commerce, and Finance, and the Central Bank are represented. The retention tax is 6 per cent on exports of bee f, o f f a l, and tongue (except canned tongue) ; 6.5 per cent for co rn; 20 per cent for linseed and linseed oil, horses, unprocessed hides, certain meat by-products, and some forestry products; 12 per cent for live ca t t le not for b r e ed ing; and 10 per cent for exports of certain ag r icu l tu ral and livestock p roduc ts, inc lud ing raw goat hides and sheepskins, certain oilseeds, and vegetable oils. The tax must be paid be fo re shipment of the merchandise or within the following 30 days when there is a bank guarantee of payment. All exports are sub ject to a 2 per cent tax on the f re ight charges. Other taxes on exports are levied as fo l low s: a 10 per cent sales tax on exports of linseed oil, oilseeds, logs, coal, certain wood extracts, sheepskins, and woo l ;2 a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of wh ich are destined for the National Agr icu l ture and Livestock Fund, on exports of agricultural and livestock produc ts; a 1 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the financing of road construction in connection with agr icu l tural development, on exports subject to reten- 2 The sales tax on wool and sheepskins has been suspended. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA tion taxes; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the Na t ional Gra in Board, on certain agr icu l tural products; a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of which are destined for the Secretariat of Public Works, on the export of certain other agricultural products; a 0.3 per cent statistical tax on exports subject to retention taxes; and a 5 per cent tax, the proceeds of wh ich are destined for the Forestry Fund, on exports of tanning extracts (these are exempt, how- ever, f rom all other charges and taxes). Surcharges, customs and additional duties, and other charges paid on imports of raw materials or other products incorporated in exported articles are returned to exporters. Moreover, exporters of specified nontraditional exports receive a rebate in compensation for domestic indirect taxes paid in the process of manu fac tu re. There are three rates of rebate, 6 per cent, 12 per cent, and 18 per cent, according to the degree of m a n u f a c t u r e; the rebates are computed on the f.o.b. value of the export in question. The Central Bank has established a system of financial support for products not traditionally exported, based on the purchase of d r a f ts in fore ign currency with periods of up to five years for capital goods, up to two and a ha lf years for durab le and semidurable goods, and up to one year for other goods. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived f rom invisibles must be sold in the "single" ex- change market within 30 days of receipt. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in fore ign banknotes. Capital There are no limitations on inward capital t rans fe rs by nonresidents. Argentine industrial or commercial firms, however, require the author- ization of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. Remittances to repay fore ign loans or to t rans fer the liquidation proceeds of fore ign investments in Argentina are authorized without restriction, provided that no transfer of domestic capital is involved. Outward capital movements by residents are restricted. The export of Argentine and foreign securities (shares and bonds) is subject to the au thor iza t ion of the Central Bank, except in the fo l low ing cases. Authorized banks may export domestic and fore ign securities freely, provided that they have been purchased by a nonresident with funds that entered Argentina a f ter April 13, 1964. Authorized banks may export resident-owned securities, provided that the sales proceeds are repatriated in the form of foreign exchange, or that the securities 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA are exchanged abroad for other securities wh ich are subsequently imported into Argentina. Changes during 1965 January 8. Au thor ized institutions were allowed to make direct transfers abroad in payment of obligations resulting f rom credits granted by the IBRD, the IFC, the IDA, the IDE, the U.S. Export- Import Bank, and the U.S. Agency for International Development. January 11. Advance import deposit requirements valid until April 30, 1965 were introduced. Advance deposits in local currency equivalent to 100 per cent of the c. & f. value of imports were required prior to the mak ing of import payments or the opening of letters of credit; they would remain f rozen for at least 180 days. Exempt were imports by off ic ial organizations, imports of commodities on Argen- tina's LAFTA concession lists, goods that had been shipped by Janua ry 8, imports for wh ich letters of credit had been opened by Janua ry 8, and imports of goods on a special list. January 5. Domestic indirect taxes paid by exporters of nontradi- tional exports included in the annex to Decree 46/65 and its amend- ments were hence fo r th r e fund ed. R e funds wou ld amount to 6, 12, or 18 per cent of the f .o.b. value. January 21. The exchange allowance for tourist travel to countries not ad jacent to Argentina was reduced to US$400 a person a trip (US$200 for a person under 18), of which 10 per cent could be obtained in fore ign banknotes. Commercial travelers and officials could obtain additional amounts. January 21. The exchange allocation of the equivalent of M$N 10,000 for each benef ic iary a quarter for fam i ly assistance was made subject to the fu l f i l lm ent of certain conditions. January 21. Imports of j u te bu r lap were exempted f rom the advance import deposit requirement. January 28. Until Ma rch 15, the exchange allocation for travel to Chile was raised to US$300 a person a trip (US$150 for a person under 18). February 4- The Central Bank revised and consolidated the regula- tions pertaining to the operations of fore ign exchange brokers. February 4- The 10 per cent sales tax on the export proceeds f rom wool and sheepskins was suspended un t il May 1, 1965. The suspension was subsequently extended several times. February 5. The Central Bank undertook an inquiry in respect of obligations as of December 31, 1964 incurred abroad by the private sector. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA February 8. The regulations concerning advance import deposits were c lar if ied. The deposits had to be made be fo re any of the fo l low ing actions could take place (1) opening a letter of cred i t; (2) with- drawing shipping documents f rom the intermediary bank; (3) purchas- ing fo rwa rd exchange; (4) mak ing advance payments for impor ts; or (5) clearing goods through customs. To the existing exemptions f rom the advance deposit requirements were added the fo l low ing: imports by the Mixed Iron and Steel Company (SOMISA) and the Greater Buenos Aires Electrical Service Company (SEGBA) and imports f rom Bolivia made in accordance with special regulations. February 10. The period in which applications for the ad jus tment of the f.o.b. value of exports could be received was extended to 360 days. February 16. Decree 1188 announced special regulations for imports of parts for the automobile industry f rom LAFTA coun tr ies; these imports became sub ject to surcharges of 20 per cent or 40 per cent. Imports of parts were required to be fo l lowed by equivalent exports. February 18. Banks were authorized to countersign shipping permits for fresh fru it exported to LAFTA countries, provided that the exporter undertook to surrender the exchange proceeds w i th in 90 days of ship- ment. March 5. A list was issued spec ify ing the commodities that could only be imported in accordance with the deferred payments regulations for capital goods. March 12. It was announced that, as f rom March 16, the bilateral payments agreement with Uruguay would cease to func t ion; all transactions which as of March 16, 1965 were covered by documentary credits or payments orders expressed in Uruguayan agreement dollars would have to be liquidated in Uruguayan agreement dollars by March 17,1966. March 12. Further exemptions f rom the advance import deposit requirements were announced; newly exempted goods included pesti- cides, fer t i l izers and raw materials for their manu fac tu re, and drugs and medicines. March 16. The bilateral payments agreement with Uruguay expired. March 19. The exchange a l lowance for travel to Uruguay was reduced to US$25 a person a trip. April 7. Tin plate imports were exempted from the advance deposit requirements. April 12. Procedures were announced for the validation of tax re fund certificates for nontraditional exports. 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA April 19. The advance import deposit requirement was reduced f rom 100 per cent to 75 per cent and was extended for an indefinite period. Advance payments f or imports were prohibited. April 20 The spot exchange rate was depreciated to M$N 171 buying, and M$N 173 selling, per US$1. April 20. Certain new retention taxes on exports were in troduced, as fo l lows: 20 per cent on linseed and linseed o i l; 13 per cent on wheat shipped prior to June 15; 9.5 per cent on meat, o f f a l, and tongue (except canned tongue) ; 6.5 per cent on corn; and 3.5 per cent on birdseed, oats, barley, and rye. April 27. Certain types of agricultural mach inery were included in the list of capital goods (see Ma rch 5, above ). April 29. The approval of the Tractor Industry Council was no longer required for the import of tractors. May 10. The list of capital goods was fu r ther amended. May 11. Commercial travelers and certain other persons previously accorded special travel allocations were only entitled to a tourist travel allowance. May 28. A special exchange allowance of US$300 a person (US$150 for a person under 18) for tourist travel to Rio de Jane iro du r ing the period June 1 to June 10 was announced. May 31. Certain raw materials and finished products for the care of livestock were exempted f rom advance import deposits. June 8. By virtue of a LAFTA "complementarity agreement," imports of specified statistical mach inery and electronic valves from LAFTA countries were exempted f rom advance import deposits. June 9. Subject to certain conditions, imports of specified raw materials for industrial use were exempted f rom advance import deposits. June 14- The Central Bank announced certain changes in the regula- tions pertaining to the operations of authorized institutions. The examination of applications for those payments for invisibles that required approval by the Central Bank was delegated to the commer- cial banks. The new regulations took e f fect on June 21. July 13. The surcharge on imports of automobiles was substantially increased. July 19. New regulations were issued for the t rans fer of funds for scholarship students. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA July 20. Certain imports of machinery and equipment by registered enterprises in the iron and steel industry were exempted f rom advance import deposits. July 23. All new contracts for imports of capital goods were required to be registered with the Central Bank. July 28. Imports by the shipbuilding industry of goods not classified as capital goods were exempted f rom advance import deposits. August 2. Imports by electrical cooperatives and by the Italo- Argentine Electrical Company were exempted f rom advance import deposits. August 2. Certain imports for phytopathological purposes were exempted from advance import deposits. August 3. New regulations were issued for t rans fe rs by travel agencies for tourism to countries not contiguous to Argen t ina. August 5. Airplane engines and parts for private civil aviation were deleted f rom the list of capital goods (see Ma rch 5, above) and were exempted from advance import deposits. August 6. Certain procedures relating to advance import deposits were revised. August 6. Certain rules and procedures for the endorsement of shipping documents by authorized institutions were revised. August 13. Imports of certain raw ma ter ia ls and parts by indus tr ial firms that were engaged on m anu f a c tu r ing plans approved by the Government were exempted f rom advance import deposits. August 16. Exchange was not granted for imports of books unless a customs certificate indicating their value was submitted. August 16. Road construction mach inery and parts the re for were exempted f rom advance import deposits. August 23. The Central Bank issued a consolidation of the pr inc ipal rules governing exchange transactions of authorized institutions. Specifically reconfirmed were the fo l low ing rules: operations between authorized institutions should norma l ly take place without the inter- vention of brokers; brokers could only intervene in operations between authorized institutions when transactions were solely for the purpose of meeting the customers' requ iremen ts; transactions in fo rwa rd exchange between authorized institutions could only be undertaken to cover the requirements of customers. A schedule of charges was established for transactions carried out through the intermediary of brokers. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA September 13. The spot exchange rate was depreciated to M$N 178 buying, and M$N 180 selling, per US$1. September 16. Certain overdue remittances (ma in ly in respect of profits, dividends, interest, and royalties) could be effected by pur- chasing 5 per cent External Bonds denominated and payab le in U.S. dollars. Interest and amor t iza t ion on such bonds would be paid in f ree U.S. dollars. September 21. It was announced that, as f rom October 1, payments abroad could be made for capital goods shipped be fo re November 15, 1963 or between May 5, 1964 and June 30, 1964. This would also apply to imports made under special regulations and shipped be fo re Octo- ber 5,1964. September 22. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement was signed by the central banks of Argen t ina, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. September 22. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed between the Bank of Mexico and the Central Bank of Argen t ina. October 14- Decree No. 8998 extended the validity of the temporary 5 per cent import tax of November 1, 1962 and the validity of the temporary surcharge of 15 per cent on goods in Lists 3 through 8 until the entry into fo rce of the new customs t a r i f f. October 20. Procedural details were announced for payments in respect of f re igh t. October 22. The surrender period for the exchange proceeds f rom exports of meat, sausages, and meat products was reduced f rom 90 days to 10 days a f ter shipment. October 28. Contracts with nonresidents for the pe r fo rmance of cu l tura l, artistic, or sporting activities, and invo lv ing payments in foreign exchange, required pr ior au thor iza t ion. October 29. The exchange proceeds of certain nontraditional exports made between April 20 and September 10, 1965 could be sold at the exchange rate in e f fect at the time of sale. This did not apply, however, to any part of the export va lue f inanced by the Central Bank, or to exports wh i ch, on September 11, 1965, were covered by fo rwa rd sales contracted before that date. November 19. The surrender requirements for the exchange proceeds f rom exports of canned meat and meat specialties were amended. November 30. The surrender period for the exchange proceeds f rom exports of petroleum products was fixed at 180 days f rom the date of shipment. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA December L Decree No. 10682/65 of the Ministry of Economy revised the prohibited import list. December L The suspension of the sales tax on the proceeds f rom exports of wool and sheepskins was extended until May 31, 1966. December L A new customs tar iff under the Brussels nomenclature came into effect. All import duties and import surcharges were con- solidated into a single levy (recargo unico) for each commodity. The levy would be applied either on the c . i .f. value or, where appropriate, on an index value (aforo), and it ranged from nil to 235 per cent ad valorem. Goods imported f rom LAFTA countries and covered by Ar- gentina's LAFTA commitments continued to be liable for the duties established in the relevant concession lists. December L Decrees Nos. 10683/65 and 10684/65 of the Ministry of Economy provided for the tar iff treatment for goods previously exempt from import duties and/or import surcharges, as fo l lows: (1) Goods exempt from both import duty and import surcharge were exempt from the new import duty. (2) Goods exempt f rom import duty but sub ject to import surcharges would pay 90 per cent of the new import duty. (3) Goods exempt f rom import surcharge but subject to import duty would pay 10 per cent of the new import duty. December L It was announced that imports coverecl by various industrial promotion measures would continue to be subject to the import surcharges fixed in the relative decrees and amending legisla- tion, as well as a 5 per cent import tax calculated on the value on which the surcharges were levied. The legislation referred to was the fo l low ing: for the automobile industry, Decree No. 7711/64 and Decree No. 3642/65; for the engine industry, Decree No. 4808/65; for the production of parts for automo- biles and engines, Decrees Nos. 10170/62, 9089/64, 1565/61, 8829/63, 2958/61, 3986/65, and 2357/64; for the tractor industry, Decree No. 8980/63; and for the textile machines industry, Article 3 of Decree No. 3870/61. December 6. The spot exchange rate was depreciated to M$N 188 buying, and M$N 190 selling, per US$1. December 6. The advance import deposit requirement was reduced from 75 per cent to 50 per cent. December 6. Proceeds f rom exports shipped dur ing the period September 11-December 4, 1965 had to be sold at the exchange rate in effect on December 3. Proceeds from exports of manufac tured products could be sold at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of shipment, except for any part financed by the Central Bank. Proceeds 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA from exports for which all formalities had been fu l f i l led before April 19, 1965 could be liquidated at the rate of M$N 151 per US$1, and those from exports for wh ich all formalities had been fu l f i l led between April 20 and September 10, 1965 at M$N 171 per US$1. December 7. The exchange proceeds f rom certain fu r ther nontradi- tional exports (see October 29, above) could be sold at the exchange rate in effect at the time of sale. December 14- The export retention taxes on birdseed, oats, barley, rye, Guinea corn, m i l le t, and sorghum were abolished. The retention tax on beef, o f f a l, and tongue (other than canned) was reduced to 6 per cent. December 15. Travelers to Uruguay could during the summer season obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to US$400 a person a trip. December 29. Residents were required to declare to the Central Bank their foreign commitments on December 31,1965. December 29. Further procedural details were announced for the making of payments for imports. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA * Exchange Rate System The par value is Aus tra l ian Dollar 1 = US$1.12. O f f ic ial rates are fixed for spot transactions in s ter l ing: $A 2.5000 buy ing, and $A 2.5100 selling, per £ stg. 1. The rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the authorized banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London and New York. The rate for the U.S. do l lar on February 14, 1966 was US$1.1218 buying, and US$1.1151 selling, per $A 1. Australia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f r om July 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwea l th Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle fore ign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Australia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Australia and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling, in another Sterling Area currency, or in Australian currency through the account of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling Area w i th a bank in Aus tra l ia. Payments for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account in the United K ingdom, in Aus tra l ian currency th rough the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Aus tra l ia, or in any fore ign currency. Proceeds f r om exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be accepted in sterling f rom an External Account in the United K ingdom, in Aus t ra l ian currency f rom an appropriate nonresident account, or in any fo re ign currency wh ich is free ly exchangeable for External Account sterling. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are sub ject to approval, which is granted in the same 1In view of certain changes that took place early in 1966 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position as at February 14, 1966. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA circumstances and sub ject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed free ly, on application, between accounts of nonresidents. Under current po l icy, the ba lance on a nonresident account may be w i thdrawn in convertible currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom all sources of certain drugs, and imports f rom Rhodesia of tobacco, ferroa l loys, chrome ore, and asbestos, are prohibited. Import licenses are required for unw rought a lum inum and a lum inum alloy, waste and scrap of a lum inum and a lum inum alloy, used earth-moving, excavating, or ma te r ia ls -hand l ing equipment and parts, and polyethyl- ene twine, rope, cordage, and cable. All other goods may be imported freely w i thout import licenses. No restrictions are imposed on payments for imports, provided that the prescription of currency requirements are observed. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are sub ject to exchange control, but they are not res tr ic ted; the control operates solely to prevent unau tho r ized capital transfers. There is a basic exchange a l lowance of $A 4,000 in any 12 months for any kind of travel in any coun t ry; additional amounts may be obtained on application, provided that the exchange control is satisfied that the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unau tho r ized capital t rans fe r. Limits are placed on remittances for f am i ly ma in tenance and g i f t s; however, applications for such t ran s fe rs are treated liberally, and amounts beyond the no rmal limit for fam i ly ma in tenance are approved on application. Travelers who are not residents of Aus tra l ia may take out any amount in fore ign or domestic banknotes within 6 months of entry, provided that they b rought the notes into Australia. Other travelers may take out up to $A 100 in Aus tra l ian currency, without special au tho r iza t ion; of this amoun t, up to $A 4 may be coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all destinations of copper and copper alloy scrap, and copper and copper alloy ingots, are p roh ib i ted, and exports of primary copper, ref inery shapes, and copper rod are controlled. Exports to Rhodesia of arms and other military equipment are prohibited. With minor exceptions, exports requ ire licenses issued by the Department of Customs and Excise, to ensure that the f u ll proceeds are received in a currency and within a period approved by the Reserve Bank. To assist supervision, there is a f u r t h er condition that all shipping documents, 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA bills of lading, etc., must be d rawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or a trad ing bank acting as its agent. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in Sterling Area currencies may be disposed of freely. Proceeds f rom invisibles in other currenc ies do not have to be surrendered, but they must be reported and may be disposed of only with permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in fore ign or domestic banknotes. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require approval. Transfers abroad of resident capital are allowed for certain types of direct investment overseas. Approval is norma l ly granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresidents, but no advance commitments are given. No restrictions are placed on the receipt of capital funds f rom abroad, but residents must ob ta in pr ior approval b e fo re borrow ing fo re ign currency or incurring a liability to a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Foreign securities owned by Australian residents need not be sur- rendered, but they must be reported. This obligation does not cover securities whose principal and interest are payab le in a currency of the Sterling Area or certain securities expressed in Canad ian dollars and registered in Australia, provided that the securities are held within the Sterling Area. The export of securities and prac t ica l ly all trans- actions in foreign securities are sub ject to approval. Changes during 1965 March 3. Licensing control was imposed on imports of certain types of copper and brass sheet, strip, and fo i l. March 29. Imports of certain drugs were prohibited on the grounds of danger to pub l ic health. August 31. A Free Trade Area Agreement with New Zea land, to become e f fec t ive on January 1, 1966, was signed and related exchanges of letters with New Zea land took p lace. September 1. Import controls on copper and brass sheet, strip, and fo il (see March 3, above) were removed. November 16. Imports of tobacco f rom Rhodesia were prohibited. Tariff preferences on imports of Rhodesian origin were suspended. Exports of arms and other m i l i ta ry equ ipment to Rhodesia were prohibited. Action was taken to prevent Rhodes ian residents f rom 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA evading U.K. exchange control measures, inc lud ing the exclusion of Rhodesia f rom the Sterling Area for purposes of the bank ing ( fo re ign exchange) regulations. December 8. Imports of fe r roa l loys, chrome ore, and asbestos f rom Rhodesia were proh ib i ted. December 8. The money order service between Australia and Rho- desia was suspended. December 20. Exports of copper and copper alloy scrap, and copper and copper alloy ingots, were proh ib i ted, and control was imposed on exports of p r ima ry copper, re f ine ry shapes, and copper rod. NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took place early in 1966: January 14. Temporary protective quantitative restrictions were imposed on imports of polyethylene tw ine, rope, cordage, and cable pending an inquiry and report by the Tariff Board into the protective needs of the local industry. February 14. A new monetary unit, the Australian dollar, replaced the Australian pound at a rate of $A 1 = £A 0.50. The par va lue was established at $A 1 = US$1.12. 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA x Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Aus tr ian Schillings 26.00 = US$1. The o f f ic ial limits for the U.S. do l lar are S 25.80 buy ing, and S 26.20 se l l ing, per US$1—rates at wh ich the Aus tr ian Na t ional Bank will buy or sell. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result f r om combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. do l lar maintained by Austria and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. "Agreement dollars" (see section on Prescription of Currency, below) are quoted at par with the U.S. do l lar. Forward premiums and discounts are l e ft to the in terp lay of market forces. Austria accepted the ob l iga t ions of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom August 1,1962. Administration of Control The Aus t r ian National Bank administers the exchange control and issues licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass th rough those Aus tr ian banks that have been au thor ized to implement exchange control regulations. The customs issue f ree ly and w i thout de lay licenses required for imports of l ibera l ized goods. Licenses, if requ ired, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained f r om the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade and Reconstruction (Licensing O f f ice) or the Federal M in is try of Ag r icu l tu re and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the countries with which Austria ma in ta ins bilateral payments arrangements 2 are made th rough c lear ing accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Sch i l l ing Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonres ident accounts in sch i l l ings: Free Schilling Accounts and Blocked Accounts. 1In view of a change that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the s i tua t ion as at that date. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Free Schilling Accounts may be free ly credited with proceeds f rom the sale of gold, gold coins, or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian Na t ional Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or ind iv idual au thor iza t ion. The accounts may be f ree ly debited for payments to Austrian residents, w i th the exception of loans granted by nonresidents to residents, wh ich require ind iv idual licenses. Balances may be freely converted into any fore ign currency. Transfers between these accounts are f ree. Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. A general license permits the ir use for many payments for current and capital invisibles. The t ran s fer abroad of funds in Blocked Accounts is sub ject to an ind iv idual license. In most cases the licenses are granted f ree ly if the f u n ds belong to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. As a result, Blocked Accounts largely represent f u n ds due to residents of countries with which Austria settles payments through bilateral accounts. Nonresidents may also ma in ta in Nonresident Accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Sch i l l ing Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are f ree of import licensing and may be imported f rom any country without quantitative restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are f r ee of quantitative restriction. The l ibera l iza t ion depends on the group of countries f rom wh ich they are impor ted; for such l ibera l ized goods, licenses are issued by the customs at the time of clearance.3 Nearly all imports f rom European OECD countries, their associated territories, and many other countries 4 are liberalized. Imports f rom Canada and the United States 3 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the coun try of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 4The fu ll list is as fo l lows: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central A f r ican Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark ( inc lud ing Faroe Islands and G reen land ), Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Haiti, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, Ma law i, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauri- tania, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, South Afr ica, Spain, Sweden, Sw i tzer land, Tanzania, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, and Zambia. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA and its territories are liberalized to the same degree as those f rom the European OECD countries, except that slaughtered poultry is subject to quantitative restriction when imported from Canada or the United States. Imports from three other countries 5 are treated in practically the same way as imports f rom European OECD countries. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trad ing, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (ba r te r ). State trading covers tobacco in any fo rm, salt, spirits, and various breadstuffs and feedgrains. Global quotas apply to specified imports f rom OECD countries and all other GATT countries, except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and Japan. Discretionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the procedures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under com- pensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling pay- ments; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligible. Grains and other specified goods are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under so-called Marketing Laws. In addition to grains, the following groups of products are covered by Marketing Laws: milk and butter; cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter; products f rom these animals for human consump- tion ; and certain fertilizers. In principle, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. For new importers there is a newcomers' quota, which is up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the corresponding global quota. Import licenses are not transferab le and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports f rom, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses.6 Payments for imports f rom, or originating in, countries with which Austria maintains bilateral payments agree- ments require exchange licenses, which are granted without restriction if the payments are made in the appropriate bilateral currencies. 5 India, Israel, and Pakistan. 'In a few instances, import licenses are granted only on condition that a bilateral currency is used for payment; in such cases, the necessary exchange license is issued at the same time. 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. Exceptions com- prise transactions concerning transport, films, and insurance. For transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to residents of all other countries, ind iv idual licenses are required. The licenses are granted af ter account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral payments arrangements and other considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases; certain liabilities (e.g., f re ight pay- ments, handling charges, commissions, etc.) are covered by general licenses. Payments on account of authorized invisibles to residents of coun- tries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made f ree ly, provided that no capital t ran s fer is involved. All payments to bilateral payments agreement countries for invisibles require licenses. Residents traveling to countries with which Austria makes settle- ments in convertible currencies may buy exchange f rom authorized banks up to the equivalent of S 26,000 for each trip. Should a resident require more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be authorized by the National Bank. In addition, Austrian residents may arrange for trips abroad through travel agents and pay in schillings to cover expenditures for hotels and food as well as transpor- tation. Persons leaving Austria may take with them S 15,000 in Austrian notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regulated under the Foreign Trade Law have to be obtained f rom the competent ministry. Goods exported under compensation arrangements are subject to licensing by the Federal Ministry of Trade and Reconstruction. For most other exports, licenses are not required. Export licenses are issued with due consideration for the provisions of relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fu l f i l l- ment of quotas established in accordance w i th such agreements, and for the needs of the Austrian economy. Export claims must be declared. Export proceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts with au thor ized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used free ly for authorized payments. Deposits in bilateral clearing currencies may be used in accordance with the terms of an individual payments license. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles, if not surrendered or deposited in an account with an authorized bank, have to be declared within eight days f rom the date of collection. They may either be surrendered or be deposited with an authorized bank and subsequently used in the same way as proceeds accru ing f rom exports. Persons entering Austria may bring in Austrian or foreign banknotes and coins without limit. Capital Direct investments by nonresidents are generally permitted, if made with convertible currencies or f rom f ree or originally owned blocked schilling balances. For investments f inanced in other ways (imported Austrian currency, inconvertible currencies, investment loans, goods), authorization is granted on the merits of each case. Residents are permitted to obtain f rom nonresidents loans and credits as fo l lows: (1) commercial credits for a period of up to one yea r; (2) loans with maturities of five years or more, to be used for investment purposes (e.g., for expansion of production equ ipmen t); (3) loans to be used by enterprises in Austria in wh ich the nonresidents participate; (4) loans secured by export claims; and (5) loans for a period of up to five years, to be used abroad for definite merchandise transactions. The Austrian National Bank permits the t rans fer abroad of (1) pro- ceeds f rom the liquidation of various foreign investments in Austria (shares or participation in Austrian enterprises, Austrian securities, real estate in Aus tr ia) and (2) repayments by residents of foreign loans and credits. The transfer of funds owned by emigrants, and payments due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inheritances, and settlements under certain agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and other enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or extend foreign agencies or individually owned firms; earnings accruing f rom such investment may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad, to grant commercial or invest- ment credits, and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Austria or abroad. Domestic insurance companies may conclude with nonresidents l i fe insurance contracts in Austria. Transactions and operations mentioned in the four preceding paragraphs are licensed upon documentation, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries with wh ich Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. A number of authorized banks are 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA permitted to accept f rom abroad and to employ abroad funds in con- vertible currencies for a period of up to five years. Residents are allowed to purchase f rom nonresidents, without restriction, fore ign securities quoted on foreign stock exchanges and Austrian securities; for fore ign securities and Austrian external bonds, the transactions must be carried out on a spot basis through authorized banks and, with certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of Austrian external bond s ), the securities purchased must be kept with such banks. Payments for these purchases to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made in those currencies, whereas payments to residents of countries with which Austria has bilateral payments agreements may be made only by crediting a Blocked Account. Residents may sell securities deposited in accordance with the aforementioned provision with Austrian authorized banks to nonresidents only on a spot basis against payment in convertible currencies a n d . t h r o u gh authorized banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the fo re ign exchange obtained as a result of redemption of the fore ign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account with an au thor ized bank. Changes during 1965 May 1. A number of imports f rom Japan were liberalized, and restrictions on fu r ther imports f rom Japan were relaxed. June 19. The general permission to t ran s fer abroad the proceeds f rom the sale of Austrian securities by fore igners to residents was extended to cover the proceeds f rom the sale of claims on Austrian securities that are kept on general deposit. July 1. Some imports f rom Yugoslavia were liberalized, and restric- tions on some other imports f rom Yugoslavia were relaxed. July 1. Existing global import quotas were increased fu r the r. NOTE. —The fo l low ing change took place in 1966: January 1. A new Amendment to the Foreign Trade Law entered into effec t. One hundred and eighteen additional commodities no longer required an export license, regardless of destination. Many other commodities no longer required an import license, regardless of or ig in; these included passenger automobiles, raw coffee, cameras, outboard motors, and cosmetics. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Rate System The par values are Belgian Francs 50.00 = US$1 and Luxembourg Francs 50.00 — US$1. There are two exchange markets —the off ic ial and the free. In the off ic ial exchange marke t, only au thor ized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 The spot exchange rate for the U.S. do l lar fluctuates within o f f ic ial limits of BF 49.625 buying, and BF 50.375 selling, per US$1; the rates for the other convertible currencies fluctuate between limits which result f rom combining the o f f ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Belgium-Luxembourg and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. Most exchange transactions are settled through the off ic ial market. In the f ree exchange market, all currencies ( inc lud ing bankno tes) may be bought and sold at free ly fluctuating rates. Convertible cur- rencies acquired through the f ree market may be sold in the off ic ial market, but no other direct connection between the two markets exists. On December 31, 1965, the f ree market rates for the U.S. dollar were approximately BF 49.95 buy ing, BF 49.96% selling, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one or both of the exchange markets may be used f or settlements with so-called convertible area countries, wh ich inc lude all countries except those in the bilateral group.2 If receipts f rom bilateral group countries are obtained in convertible currencies, they are to be ceded on the off ic ial market. Forward rates are le ft to the interplay of market forces. In the o f f ic ial market, authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of the con- vertible currencies. Any resident or nonresident, banks inc luded, may deal f ree ly in any currency in the f r ee market. Belgium and Luxembourg accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 196L 1The currencies dealt w i th in the official market are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. 2 The bilateral group countries are Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and U.S.S.R. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg (the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic U n i o n ); the two countries constitute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The u l t ima te responsibility for the adm in is tra t ion of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union (BLEU) is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change. Exchange control powers for most paymen ts and t ran s fe rs are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935, revised by a Protocol of Janua ry 29, 1963, con fe r red on the Belgo-Luxembourg Administrative Commission the au thor i ty to license trade transactions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the Licensing Offices of the BLEU, one of wh ich is located in each country. Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate ma in ly to ensure that settlements with fo re ign countries are made, according to their na ture, through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs are involved, th rough the appropriate category of nonresident account. All inward and outward transactions are classified in f o ur groups, which may be summarized as fo l low s: List A covers merchand ise, transport expenses, indus t r ial expenses (e.g., costs of process ing), and other commercial expenses inc lud ing insu rance; List B covers settle- ments of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration paymen ts; List C covers adm in is tra t ion expenses, income on securities, loans, etc., rents, exploitation rights, repatriation of certain fo re ign long-term investments, and t ran s fe rs by emigrants of foreign na t iona l i ty; List D covers g i f ts, l i fe insurance payments, fam i ly ma in tenance payments, cap i tal investments, l iqu ida t ion of investments, dealings in gold, t ran s fe rs by emigrants of Be lg ian or Luxembourg na t iona l i ty, t r an s f e rs by imm igran ts, inher i tances, fo r- ward covering of merchand ise, private travel expenses, and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (see footnote 2) and the convertible area (a ll other countries). The permissible methods of settlement for fo re ign payments are summarized in the accompany ing table. In dea l ing with countries in the convertible area, there is a choice between the o f f ic ial and the f ree 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG market for convertible currencies received f rom transactions in Lists C and D or paid for transactions in Lists A, B, and C; such settlements with the convertible area if made in Belgian or Luxembourg f r an cs can also be settled through a F inanc ial or a Convertible Account. All payments to countries in the convertible area, and all receipts f rom such countries for transactions inc luded in Lists C and D, may also be effected in domestic or fore ign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settlement described above, ind iv idual licenses are granted in order to allow t ran s fe rs through the o f f ic ial market for some of the transactions mentioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital t rans fe rs by ind iv idua ls. SUMMARY OF PERMISSIBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACT ION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments A, B, and C Convertible Any D Convertible Any A, B, C, and D Bilateral Official or free Free NONRESIDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Any Financial Bilateral 3 Inward Payments A a n dB Convertible Convertible Official Convertible C a n dD Convertible Convertible Other Official or free Free 1 Convertible or j Financial A, B, C, and D Bilateral Convertible Official Convertible or Bilateral 3 Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg f r a nc accounts of nonresidents are classified as fo l lows: 1. Convertible Accounts, Ba lances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the o f f ic ial marke t, and these accounts 3 Bilateral Account of the coun t ry concerned. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG may be opened in the name of any nonresident. They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the o f f ic ial market, and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the o f f ic ial market to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred free ly to any nonresident account or be converted into any currency in the off ic ial or the f ree market. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries,4 and they are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the f r ee market, and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the f ree market and of convertible currencies in the o f f ic ial market. Domestic banknotes and proceeds f rom the sale in the f ree market of fore ign banknotes deposited with authorized banks by fore ign travelers in Belgium-Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited free ly to F inanc ial Accounts. Transfers between Financial Accounts are f ree. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the f ree market. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see footnote 2 ), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settle- ments with bilateral countries, and may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be t rans fe r red to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same country. Transfers may be made free ly between Bilateral Accounts related to Bu rund i, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. In practice, the authorities permit the conversion of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into fo re ign currencies. Imports and Import Payments Ind iv idual licenses are required for (1) all imports f rom A lban ia, Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rho- desia, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North V ie t-Nam, (2) a few imports f rom Luxembourg into Belgium and vice versa, and (3) a number of imports f rom all other countries. The imports for wh ich ind iv idual licenses are required include many textile products, certain agr icu l tural * Individuals resident in Burund i, Democratic Republic of Congo, or Rwanda are authorized to maintain "assimilated" resident accounts. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG products and food s tu f f s, and coal and kerosene. All other imports, which constitute about four fifths of total imports, are f ree of license and quan t i ta t ive restriction. Only a simple fo rm completed by the importer giving no t if ica t ion of the payment (payment dec lara t ion) is required when payment is made through an authorized bank. Many imports sub ject to ind iv idual licensing are also admitted without quantitative restriction. No exchange control documentation is required for imports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The au thor ized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). If the requirements are not f u l f i l l e d, the authorized bank submits a request to the cen tral exchange control authority for special permis- sion. Exchange control approval is also required to make payments for imports more than three mon ths be fo re or a f t er the date of customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A, B, and C may be made through the o f f ic ial exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg f r a n cs to a Convertible Account. Supporting documents must in that case be presented to an authorized bank, and in exceptional cases the approval .of the central exchange control authority is requ ired. Payments to convertible area countries for all invisibles ( inc lud ing those in List D) may be made through the f ree market, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg f r an cs to a F inanc ial Account, or in domestic or fo re ign banknotes. Payments to bilateral countries (see foo tno te 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg f r an cs to a B i la te ral Account related to the country concerned. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be exported free ly. Exports and Export Proceeds Individual licenses are required for (1) all exports to A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Po land, Rhodesia, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam, (2) a few exports f rom Belgium to Luxembourg and vice versa, and (3) specified exports to other coun- tries. All other exports are f ree of l icense; only a simple fo rm com- pleted by the exporter giving no t if ica t ion of the export is required. No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regula- tion (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Special authori- zation is required to collect export proceeds more than six months a f ter the date of exportation. Export proceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments au thor ized to be made in these currencies. Proceeds front Invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies f rom invisibles connected with certain commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the o f f ic ial exchange m a rk e t ), or, alter- natively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Receipts in convertible currencies from other transactions (Lists C and D) with countries of the convertible area may be retained or sold in the off ic ial or the f ree market. Receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the f ree market. Proceeds f rom transactions included in Lists C and D f rom convertible area countries may also be col- lected in domestic or fore ign banknotes. Foreign and domestic bank- notes may be imported f ree ly. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out f ree ly through the f ree market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg f r an cs through the F inanc ial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or fo re ign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some cap i tal t ran s fe rs by individuals, inc lud ing g if ts, f am i ly maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxem- bourg na t iona l i ty, and inheritances, but not transactions of a financial character, may also be made through the o f f ic ial market, sub ject to ind iv idual license. In add i t ion, incom ing cap i tal may be received in convertible currencies th rough the o f f ic ial market or in Belgian or Luxembourg f rancs to the debit of a Convertible Account. The exchange control authorities may guaran tee the repa tr ia t ion of approved foreign investments made in Belgium-Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the o f f ic ial market may be repa tr ia ted through that market. All transac t ions in securities by residents or nonresidents are f ree, but the financial settlement of such transactions must con fo rm to the general regulations. Inwa rd payments for capital 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG transactions with bilateral countries must be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian francs through Bilateral Accounts; outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be made only in Belgian f rancs through Bilateral Accounts. Changes during 1965 July 12. The Spanish peseta was admitted to the official exchange market. July 14- The import from any source of many cotton, ju te> and synthetic textiles, and ju te bags required an individual license; if import prices were not considered out of line, licenses as a rule would be issued automatically. August 1. All payments to residents of the convertible area, including those for goods originating in and shipped from countries in the convertible area (i.e., excluding transit transactions), could be paid for in foreign or domestic banknotes; receipts f rom convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists C and D could be effected in foreign or domestic banknotes. August 31. Imports f rom the Netherlands of the textile items made subject to import license on July 14 were exempted from license. October 1. Notification of imports, for exchange control purposes, was no longer required; notification was required only when payment through an authorized bank took place. November 12. Imports of sand, ground quartz, and gravel were exempted from individual import license. December 29. All imports f rom and exports to Rhodesia required individual licenses; no licenses would be issued for exports of arms, ammunition, and petroleum products, or for imports of sugar and tobacco. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System On May 14, 1953, a par value for the Boliviano was established by Bolivia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A single, freely fluctuating rate was established by virtue of Supreme Decree 4538 of December 15, 1956. All exchange transactions are carried out in a free market, in which the exchange rate has remained stable since January 1959. On January 1, 1963, the boliviano was replaced by the Bolivian peso at a rate of Bs 1,000 = $b 1.00. For operational purposes, the free market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Monetary Department of the Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the public sector, buying foreign exchange from the Government. and the official enterprises, including the Bolivian Mining Corporation (COMIBOL), and selling foreign exchange to the Banking Department of the Central Bank, the banks, the Government, and its official agencies. The exchange rate of the Monetary Department of the Central Bank on December 31, 1965 was $b 11.875 buying, and $b 11.885 selling, per US$1. The Banking Department of the Central Bank, the banks, and the foreign exchange dealers operate in the private sector, where the exchange rate on December 31, 1965 was $b 11.865 buying, and $b 1L910 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange in the private sector are subject to a 2 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per mill stamp tax. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of National Economy. Private imports of certain commodities also require such prior authorization; these goods include live cattle, various foods tuffs, raw cotton, and petroleum and petroleum products. All other goods may be imported freely. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased in the free market, subject to the require- ment that the commercial documents involved in the transaction are submitted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles and capital transfers may be made freely through the free market. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to licensing. Exchange receipts f rom exports by official agencies are surrendered to the Central Bank at the free market rate, with the exception of the portion retained by the Bolivian Mining Corporation for its own use. Proceeds from other exports may be sold to commercial banks or to authorized exchange houses at the free market rate, or they may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents or nonresidents 'are free of control and may be made through the f r ee market; inward capital transfers also may be made through that market but are controlled by the Ministry of Finance in order to avoid excessive medium-term and short-term indebtedness. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of October 19, 1965, which guarantees the free convertibility and repatriation of profits and amortized capital. Companies established before the passage of this law may also benefit f rom its provisions. The law is administered by the Institute for the Promotion of Investment in Bolivia (INPIBOL). Investments in petroleum and mining are governed by the Petroleum Code and the Mining Code. Changes during 1965 February 17. Most of the import restrictions imposed in 1963 were abolished; tires, various foods tuffs, automobiles, machinery, and mining equipment no longer required prior authorization by the Ministry of National Economy. March 4- All imports by public sector agencies required prior authorization by the Ministry of National Economy. Government agencies could no longer purchase foreign exchange from Bolivian banks or maintain accounts in fore ign currencies with foreign banks. October 19. A new Investment Law entered into force, superseding the Investment Law of December 16, 1960. It would be administered by an Institute for the Promotion of Investment in Bolivia. October 20. A new customs tar iff took effect. October 21. The royalties payable on tin exports were revised; the modifications in most cases involved a reduction in such royalties. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian Cruzeiro was established by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange transactions take place in a f ree market operated by the Bank of Brazil and the authorized banks. There is also a "manual market," in which only banknotes and travelers checks are negotiated. The exchange rates are free ly negotiated. The rates quoted by the various intermediaries remained within a narrow range of each other during 1965; the max imum spread was approximately 3 per cent on the buying side and even less on the selling side. The Bank of Braz il operates in the exchange markets on beha lf of the Central Bank of the Republic of Brazil whenever this is called for by the monetary authori- ties' policy of ma in ta in ing their exchange rates within a narrow range of the commercial banks' rates. On December 31, 1965, the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were Cr$2,200 and Cr$2,220 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks were Cr$2,205 buying, and Cr$2,215 selling, per US$1, and the rates in the "manual marke t" were Cr$2,210 buying, and Cr$2,220 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies (including "agreement currencies" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries) are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Braz il and the dollar quotations for such currencies in international markets. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Spreads wider than those indicated above result f rom the fact that certain charges and a stamp tax are levied on most exchange trans- actions in the free market. The combined cost of these charges and the tax, wh ich, by law, are not to be included in the exchange rate quota- tions, is about Cr$26 per US$1 on each purchase or sale of foreign exchange at the prevailing market rate. Applied to the buying and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities on December 31,1965, the resultant effective rates were Cr$2,174 and Cr$2,246 per US$1, respectively. Transactions in the "manual market" are exempt from these charges and the stamp tax. Other effective rates result f rom the fo l low ing arrangements. 1. On the buying side: (a) Special regulations apply to coffee exports, (b) Proceeds from exports of fresh and chilled beef f rom Central Braz il are subject to a contribution ("contribution quota" or quota de contribuiQcio) of 30 per cent, (c) Proceeds f rom exports of fresh and chilled beef f rom Rio Grande do Sul are subject to a 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL contribution of 20 per cent, (d) A 15 per cent contribution is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste, (e) A 5 per cent contribution is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. 2. On the selling side: (a) A "financial charge" of 15 per cent is levied on nontrade payments not specifically exempt. The rate is 10 per cent in respect of nontrade payments of firms maintaining price increases within limits specified in Portaria 71.1 (b) Additional effective rates may result from the fo l low ing: (i) the guarantee deposit required for the closing of forward exchange contracts for most private imports; and (ii) the arrangement whereby Petrobras (national petroleum agency) concludes, at the beginning of each calendar quarter, an "open foreign exchange contract" with the Bank of B raz il for estimated requirements during the corresponding calendar quarter of imports of petroleum and specified petroleum by-products. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a large proportion of all exchange trans- actions. The fo l low ing arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large portion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Authorized banks must surrender to the Bank of Brazil (a) any foreign exchange in excess of a net position of US$25,000 at the close of each day; (b) 90 per cent of the exporter's portion of the exchange proceeds of coffee exports; and (c) those exchange proceeds f rom coffee exports corre- sponding to the "contribution quota." (2) Petrobras surrenders its entire foreign exchange proceeds from exports of petroleum on the basis of an agreement that grants it special facilities for imports of crude 011 and petroleum by-products. (3) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company are surrendered to the Bank of Brazil, although there is no legal requirement that receipts f rom these exports be negotiated with or transferred to the Bank. Furthermore, exporters in regions not served by banks other than the Bank of Brazil sell their exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government within the limits approved in the budget at the exchange rate prevailing on the date when a transaction is made. The Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for payments in respect of a large number of imports, includ- ing crude oil and petroleum products, whea t, newsprint, fertilizers, and the requirements of the Vale do Rio Doce Company. Importers, how- ever, are not legally obliged to purchase foreign exchange from the Bank of Brazil to make payment for these commodities: they are free to buy the exchange f rom authorized banks, which they may prefer to do if these offer financing arrangements and/or a more favorable selling 1 Intel-ministerial Order 71, which grants various benefits and exemptions to firms undertaking to maintain stable prices for their products. 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL rate. The Bank of Brazil also handles all exchange transactions in bilateral currencies, either direct or by t rans fe r r ing exchange to author- ized banks or vice versa. All free market transactions in foreign exchange other than those undertaken by the Bank of Brazil are effected direct through author- ized banks. The banks are not permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other but transfers between branches of the same bank in different trading centers are allowed, sub ject to certain conditions. The "manual market" is conducted mainly by exchange houses. Administration of Control The control system is operated by the Exchange Control Sector of the Central Bank (FICAM) under the general direction of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank and the National Monetary Council. The Central Bank's exchange operations are handled by the Bank of B raz i l; the latter also organizes auctions of promessas de licenga (which entitle the holder to receive an import license for Special Category impor ts), and establishes the total value of promessas de licenga on the basis of criteria approved by the Central Bank. Pending the final transition of the administration of control to the Central Bank, government departments and public entities continue to present to the Bank of B raz il Semiannual estimates of their needs for imports and service payments. In respect of petroleum, quarterly requirements are determined by the Petroleum Council. These esti- mates are reviewed by the Central Bank. The Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Braz il (CACEX) issues export and import licenses, when required, and verifies price quotations, weights, measures, classifications, and types in export and import operations that are subject to license. The Customs Policy Coun- cil decides on changes in the assignment of import commodities to the General or the Special Category, subject to confirmation by the Minis- try of Finance. The Sector for the Control and Registration of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) in the Central Bank is in charge of processing the registra- tion of foreign capital for the purpose of its repatriation and of the remittance of income the re f rom; it also approves the terms of foreign f inanc ing for imports. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically prescribed or authorized. Settlements with pay- 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL ments agreement countries are made through the relevant agreement accounts. These accounts are maintained in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia; in Danish kroner with Denmark; and in clearing sterling with Iceland and Mainland China. On the basis of provisions for the settlement with certain nonclearing countries of outstanding balances or transactions under bilateral agree- ments now terminated, a few payments with these countries are still settled in agreement dollars. All trade with Bolivia, except Braz i l ian exports of coffee and cocoa, is settled in cruzeiros. Settlements with other countries with which Braz il has no payments agreements or arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Import procedures depend on whether the goods belong to the General Category or the Special Category. The commodities listed in the General Category are mainly raw materials, equipment goods, spare parts, and some essential goods not produced in Brazil in sufficient quantities. All other commodities are in the Special Category. With the exception of wheat and onions, all imports f rom other LAFTA countries are in the General Category. Secondhand goods classified in the General Category when new may be imported, and then are granted General Category treatment, if they are (1) certified to be in good operating condition, (2) not obsolete, (3) to be used by the importer himself, and (4) considered to con- tribute directly to domestic productive processes. Imports of new auto- mobiles and recreational boats of a value over US$3,500 are prohibited. General Category imports are free of quantitative restriction. How- ever, to obtain a visa f rom the Brazilian consular authorities abroad (which is required prior to shipment of the goods) and to clear the goods through customs, the importer must first obtain a "certificate of exchange cover," which is issued by the Exchange Department of the Bank of Braz i l, subject to the following conditions: (1) The importer must have closed an exchange contract with the Bank of Brazil or an authorized bank, for no more than 180 days, for the fu ll value of the import. As a rule, at present, foreign exchange is sold for up to 120 days. (2) CACEX must be supplied with information on the foreign prices of the goods and any other informa t ion which the Department may consider necessary. At the time the importer closes the exchange contract with the Bank of Brazil or a commercial bank, he is required in most cases to place as a guarantee deposit with the respective bank 100 per cent of 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL the value of the foreign exchange if the contract is concluded in convertible currencies. If the contract is concluded in convertible exchange with the Bank of Brazil, the guarantee deposit is reduced to the following: 10 per cent for contracts covering imports of newsprint and paper stock for books; 20 per cent for fertilizers, insecticides, and seeds; and 50 per cent for petroleum and petroleum products. The required guarantee deposit is also 50 per cent for contracts with the Bank of Brazil or an authorized bank covering imports by firms adhering to the provisions of Portaria 71, provided that the commodities are in the General Category and do not have a similar national.2 For payments in agreement currencies, the required guarantee deposit is 20 per cent or, exceptionally, if the contract is concluded with the Bank of Brazil, 10 per cent. When the contracts are liquidated, deposits may be used for payment for foreign exchange. Guarantee deposits are not required for the following: (1) maps, books, and periodicals; (2) imports financed with foreign loans having a maturity of over 20 years; and (3) imports by industrial companies in amounts not exceeding 50 per cent of their proceeds from exports of manufactured goods or in amounts up to 100 per cent of such proceeds for industrial companies complying with Portaria 71. Each importer may purchase no more than US$50,000 in convertible currencies, and no more than US$50,000 in bilateral agreement curren- cies, in any one week. However, to the extent that his purchases of convertible exchange fa ll short of US$50,000, an importer may acquire bilateral agreement currencies in addition to the US$50,000 l im i t; thus, the combined limit is US$100,000 weekly. These limits do not apply to imports in the Special Category, to imports included in the National List of Braz il f rom LAFTA countries, to imports complying with Portaria 71, to imports of petroleum and petroleum products, or to imports covered by foreign loans with more than a 20-year repayment period. The limits may be waived by the Bank of Braz i l, and a waiver is normally granted to importers who in the past have cus- tomarily imported goods in average weekly amounts larger than these limits. Special Category imports are subject to global quotas. They repre- sent a minor proportion of total imports. Importers are required to obtain an import license f rom CACEX, and for this purpose they must purchase a promessa de licenqa on a stock exchange, where promessas are offered in global amounts for auction. Importers must also comply with the requirements established for obtaining a "certifi- 2 The Customs Policy Council lists as similares nationals those manufac tured goods that are considered to be supplied in sufficient quantity and appropriate quality by Brazilian producers. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL cate of exchange cover" for General Category imports, as described above. The procedure for the auction of the promessas de licenqa is as follows: Each week the Exchange Department of the Bank of Braz il determines the amount to be offered at auction. Auctions are held weekly in 20 cities; about 30 per cent of the supply is reserved both for Rio de Janeiro and for Sao Paulo. The promessas are expressed in only two currencies, "free U.S. dollars" and "agreement dollars," and are offered in lots of US$100 and US$500. The m in imum bids for auctions of promessas are, for those expressed in f ree U.S. dollars, an amount equal to the current Bank of B raz il selling rate for U.S. dollars, and for those expressed in agreement dollars, an amount equal to the weighted average bid of the preceding week at the f ree U.S. dollar auctions in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. Within 3 business days, beginning 48 hours af ter the date of the auction, a successful bidder must pay the price of the promessa to the Bank of Braz i l. The promessa is valid for 30 days, and within this period the importer must close an exchange contract for the payment of the import. A promessa entitles the holder to obtain import licenses for a total value equal to the amount of the promessa. Promessas in agreement dollars are valid for imports from any bilateral payments agreement country, while promessas in f ree U.S. dollars are valid for imports f rom any other country. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports (petroleum and petroleum products, wheat, newsprint, maps, books, magazines, and newspapers) and imports with fore ign financing. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petrobras concludes quarterly "open foreign exchange contracts" with the Bank of Brazil. An "open contract" provides that dur ing the calendar quarter actual exchange contracts may be closed up to a specified amount, at the exchange rate prevailing on the day when the "open contract" was concluded. The exchange contracts are entered into by Petrobras in accordance with the following arrangements prescribed by the Bank of Brazil: 50 per cent of the value of a shipment must be paid no later than 8 working days af ter the week in which the shipment has taken place, and the remaining 50 per cent within 110 days af ter the date of shipment; for imports of liquid gas the remaining 50 per cent is to be paid within 140 days of shipment, with an option for advance settlement. The Bank of Brazil charges an interest rate of 1 per cent a month on the balance outstanding dur ing the 110 days or 140 days. Payments for Invisibles The Bank of Brazil, in practice, sells foreign exchange only for current invisibles related to those trade transactions for which it has 68 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL closed an exchange contract and for certain nontrade transactions that have been given exemption f rom the normal payment of a f inanc ial charge. All other paymen ts for current invisibles are made through the authorized banks. Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange free ly up to the equiva- lent of US$200 for personal remittances abroad. Payments for other current invisibles, except those related to fore ign capital, income there- f rom, and royalties and technical assistance, are subject to the approval of FIG AM. For many current invisibles, FICAM permits the sale of foreign exchange by authorized banks, either freely or up to certain limits. In principle, fore ign exchange for other remittances (e.g., tour- ism) or for amounts in excess of the limits approved by FICAM may be acquired in the fo rm of foreign banknotes in the "manual market" or, if the payment is of a personal na ture (e.g., migrants' remittances or fam i ly ma in tenance ), the US$200 allowance, wh ich is granted without limitation, may be used. The sale of tickets for international air travel is made against local currency upon presentation of valid passports. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income f rom foreign invest- ments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, wh ich contains the regulations implementing the Profit Remit- tance Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remittances are allowed only when the fore ign capital concerned, inc lud ing rein- vestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for tech- n ica l, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance w i th the established rules (see section on Capital, be low ). Remittances are norma l ly authorized in the currency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortiza- tion payments are permitted f ree ly in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the Certificate of Registration. A progressive supplementary income tax is levied on such remittances of earnings on foreign capital if their average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvestments. For fo re ign capital that produces goods or services for luxury consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of registered capital. With the fo l low ing exception, remit- tances are permitted free ly in respect of royalties for the use of patents of inventions or of industrial and commercial trademarks, as well as in respect of technical, scientific, administrative, or similar assistance. Such remittances of royalties are not permitted by a branch or sub- sidiary established in Braz il to its head office abroad when at least 50 per cent of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign principal firm. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL In order to eliminate the administrative barriers to remittances wh ich had developed as a result of the large backlog of applications for registration of incoming capital, Decree No. 55762 provides for the issue of Certificates of Au tho r iza t ion for remittances under a guarantee bond (termo de responsabilidade) subscribed to by the interested party in advance of the completion of registration. This method of remitting in advance of registration is app l icab le to prof i ts, dividends, interest, amor t iza t ion, royalties, and payments for techn ica l, sc ien t if ic, and adm in is tra t ive assistance. In add i t ion to signing the guaran tee bond, the interested party must present to FIRCE the ba lance sheet showing the profits of the last fiscal year and, where app l icab le, a copy of the shareholders7 decision au tho r iz ing the distribution of profits. If the t ran s fe rs made under the above provision exceed the va lue specified in the Certificate of Registration that is ultimately issued, FIRCE will either make ad jus tment for the excess in the Certificate of Regis- tration or will require the restitution of the excess amount transferred. Payments for current invisibles, with specified exceptions, are sub- ject to a 15 per cent financial charge. The fo l low ing are exempt: remittances connected with the repurchases of foreign exchange under SUMOC Instruction 289 (see section on Capital, b e l ow ); personal rem i t tances up to US$200; rem i t tances listed in Announcement No. 22 of May 29, 1964 of the Exchange Department of the Bank of Braz i l, as amended f rom time to t im e; remittances by indus tr ial companies of registered financial obligations in amounts not exceeding 50 per cent of the companies' proceeds f rom exports of their own manu fac tu res, or in amounts corresponding to 100 per cent of such proceeds if the com- panies complied with certain provisions with regard to price stability, under Portaria 71. The surcharge is reduced to 10 per cent for remit- tances of registered financial obligations of companies which comply with the provisions of Portaria 71. Letters of credit opened for payment in inconvertible or "agreement" currencies for imports contracted on an f.o.b. basis must contain a clause requ ir ing that the goods be transported on a ship under the flag of B raz il or the exporting country. Travelers may take out domestic and fo re ign banknotes free ly. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports requ ire licenses, with the exception of exports of coffee, which require au tho r iza t ion by the B r a z i l i an Co f fee Institute. Export licenses are gran ted w i thout l im i ta t ion except when (1) the export is con trary to the na t ional security or to obligations arising from in terna t ional agreements, (2) payment is to be received in an incon- vertible currency, the accep tance of wh ich is considered to be unde- 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL sirable, or (3) it is considered necessary to guarantee adequate domestic supplies of the goods concerned. Restrictions on account of the last-mentioned reason are limited to a few products. The B raz i l ian Co f fee Institute does not grant the au thor iza t ion to export coffee unless the sale con tract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m in imum registration price (in U.S. dollars per pound, f .o .b .) fixed f rom time to time by the Institute.3 Exporters of coffee are requ ired to surrender w i thout compensation a portion ("con t r ibu t ion quo ta") of the ir fo re ign exchange r e c e ip t s ;4 the cruzeiro equivalent of th is portion is t r an s f e r r ed to a Co f fee Defense Fund. For the export proceeds in excess of the contribution quota, exporters receive (1) payment of a fixed cruze iro amount per b a g5 determined f rom time to t ime by the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute and (2) payment of the f u ll c ruze i ro equ iva lent at the f ree market rate of any foreign exchange received in excess of the m in imum registration price. To the extent that the fo re ign pr ice obtained by the exporter is lower 6 than the m in imum registration pr ice, the c ruze i ro payment to the exporter is reduced; the reduc t ion is calculated at the p reva i l ing selling rate. Thus, the effec t ive exchange rate for co f fee exports generally depends on ( i) the c ruze i ro payment per bag, ( i i) the m in imum regis- tration price, ( i i i) the ac tual pr ice received ( f .o .b. B raz i l, in U.S. dollars per p o u n d ), and ( iv) the f ree market rate. Based on paymen ts per bag of coffee of Cr$48,000, Cr$46,000, Cr$39,200, and Cr$35,200 for d ifferent grades and ports of sh ipmen t, and correspond ing m in imum registration prices per pound of US$0.41, US$0.40, US$0.37, and US$0.35, respectively, p reva i l ing on December 31, 1965, and on the assumption that the fo re ign pr ice ob ta ined by the exporter was equal to the m in imum registration price, the e f fec t ive rates for proceeds f rom coffee exports on that da te were Cr$887, Cr$871, Cr$803, and Cr$762 per US$1. In accordance w i th Reso lu t ion No. 346 of the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute, a fo re ign importer of B raz i l ian co f fee is entitled to compensa- tion f rom the Institute if, on specified dates w i th in a specified period of time, the m in imum registration pr ice is reduced, or the indicative 8 The m in imum registration price varies w i th the quality of the co f fee and the port of shipment. 4 The amount of the con t r ibu t ion depends upon the applicable m in imum registration price, the fixed cruzeiro amount paid per bag, and the current buying rate of the Bank of Brazil. 5 The cruzeiro amount per bag varies w i th the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of shipment. 8 The price at wh ich the sale is registered at the B raz i l ian Co f fee Ins t i tu te may not be lower than the m in imum registration price by more than US$0.02 per pound. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL price 7 f a l l s, below the level at wh ich those prices were on the date of sales registration at the Institute. The amount of the compensation payment equals the largest amount that can be calculated as the d i f fe rence between the m in imum registration price or the indicative price prevailing on the date of registration of the sales contract and the level of such prices on e i ther the day of shipment or the f o r t y - f i f th day a f t er shipment. On the basis of the bills of lad ing submitted to the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute by FICAM in connection with the liquida- tion of the exchange contracts in respect of co f fee exports, the Institute issues to the fo re ign importer a Guaran tee Notice entitling him to contract, with a B raz i l ian exporter of his choice and w i th in a period of 90 days beginning f rom the date of issue of the Notice, the import of coffee up to the value in fore ign currency stipulated in the Notice. The Guaran tee Notice expires a f t er the 90-day period. It may be t rans fe r red between importers in countries with wh ich B raz il does not maintain bilateral payments agreements. A Guarantee Notice issued to an importer in a b i la teral paymen ts agreement coun try may not be t ran s fe r red to another coun try, and the coffee must be used for domestic consumption in the agreement country concerned. The proceeds f rom all other exports are also sold at free ly negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender without compensation 15 per cent of their exchange proceeds; and exporters of cocoa derivatives (bu t ter, cake, and powde r) are required to surrender w i thout compensation 5 per cent of exchange proceeds. The cruze iro equivalent of these deduc t ions is used to finance a program of price support and p lan ta t ion improvement for cocoa. Similarly, exports of f resh and chilled beef are sub ject to surrender without compensation of 30 per cent and 20 per cent of exchange proceeds, respectively, when the beef originates in the Central Zone of B raz il or in the State of Rio Grande do Sul. Indus tr ial firms expor t ing designated produc ts of their own manu- fac tu re may use up to 50 per cent of the fo re ign exchange proceeds to cover their own import requ iremen ts or to pay their own financial obligations abroad that have been registered with the Central Bank (or previously with SUMOC ), sub ject to certain cond i t ions; industrial firms comp ly ing with Portaria 71 may use up to 100 per cent of their exchange proceeds for such purposes. Exports of consumer durab le goods and capital goods for which payment is to be made in convertible currenc ies on a med ium- term or long-term basis may be licensed by CACEX, provided that (1) the financing in foreign currency does not exceed 80 per cent of the invoiced 7 I.e., the price calculated and published in accordance with Resolution No. 67 of the International Coffee Organization. 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL value and (2) in fo rma t ion is fu rn i shed about the transaction and, in par t icu lar, about guarantees given by the importer covering the f inanced portion of the export. For transac t ions with terms of payment exceeding 360 days, CACEX may r e f in an ce the total amount payable in the first 360 days and 75 per cent of the ba lance, provided that the export proceeds are negotiated with the Bank of Braz i l. Re f inanc ing by the Exchange Department of the Bank of Braz il of the who le of the credit granted by the exporter is also provided fo r, but only for trans- actions with payment terms not exceeding 360 days. In connection with this re f inanc ing, the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil is au thor ized to p lace in fore ign financial markets securities in fore ign currencies with a maturity not exceeding 7 years. The outstanding amount of these securities may not exceed US$50 million. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom current invisibles are sold through the Bank of B raz il or the au thor ized banks at f ree ly negotiated rates. Travelers checks and fo re ign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Travel- ers may bring in domestic and foreign currency notes free ly. Capital For the purpose of repa tr ia t ion and the rem i t tance of income, fo r- eign capital and the reinvestment of p ro f i ts on fo re ign capital must be registered w i th FIRCE. Foreign capital is def ined as (1) goods, mach inery, and equipment wh ich have entered the country without a corresponding expenditure of fo re ign exchange and wh ich are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in eco- nomic pursu i ts, provided tha t, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or wri th headquar ters abroad. Foreign capital is classified as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the fo rm of money or goods, and it inc ludes reinvested profits. Direct investment is defined as that fo re ign cap i tal wh ich constitutes part of corporate cap i tal and par t ic ipa tes directly in the risk inherent in an economic unde r tak ing. Foreign cap i tal that is not part of the corporate cap i tal of any enterprise and wh ich does not par- ticipate directly in cap i tal risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to pu rchase capital goods ab road, whe ther conceded by the manu fac tu rer himself or a th ird par ty, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' c red i t ). Loans are considered to be cash loans when monetary or financial resources are brought into Braz i l. To register fore ign cap i ta l, it is necessary to prove that the capital has entered Braz i l. To register loans and financing that are made in 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL foreign currency, it is necessary to ce r t i fy that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the country of the lender, and that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If FIRCE approves the terms of financing, it issues a certificate of authorization to CACEX. The latter, in turn, examines the application in the light of the price and essen- tiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similares nationals. If CACEX approves the application, it grants an import license, on the basis of which FIRCE issues a certificate of authoriza- tion to the importer. The registration of direct investment is subject to the fo l low ing rules: The capital that enters or has entered Braz il is registered in foreign currency. Reinvestments, defined as the unremitted portion of remittable earnings, are registered simultaneously in cruzeiros and in the currency of the country to wh ich the profits could have been remitted, calculated at the average rate of exchange dur ing the period between the moment when the profit appeared in the balance sheet and that of actual reinvestment. The reimportation into Brazil of remitted earnings of foreign capital is registered in fo re ign currency. To provide a more normal basis for the supply of working capital in Braz il by fore ign investors, the Bank of Braz il under the^provisions of SUMOC Instruction 289 enters into repurchase arrangements which provide that the seller of fore ign exchange may subsequently repur- chase equivalent foreign exchange, f ree of restrictions, guarantee deposits, or financial charges, and that the procedure for registration to satisfy the requirements of the Profit Remittance Law will be both immediate and automatic. The repurchase must be a spot or fo rwa rd transaction in the f r ee market with any au thor ized bank (or with the Bank of Braz il if it so elects) and does not involve an exchange rate guarantee; the repurchase rights may be exercised in whole or in part a f ter 60 days but will expire a f t er 360 days. All capital transfers abroad are subject to the approval of FIG AM. Exchange transactions concerning private capital are effec ted through an authorized bank or the Bank of Braz il at freely negotiated rates; outward transfers, unless made under the terms of a repurchase contract, are subject to payment of a financial charge of 10 per cent or 15 per cent. 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1965)8 (cruzeiros per U.S. dollar} BRAZIL Selling Buying 762-887 (Free Market Rate for Cru- zeiro Payment a Bag and Minimum Registration Price}9 Coffee exports effec ted at a price equal to the m in imum registration price. 1,540 (Free Market Rate less 30% Contribution Quota) Exports of beef (fresh or chilled) from the Central Zone. 1,760 (Free ^ Market Rate Contribution Quota) Exports of beef (fresh or chilled) from Rio Grande do Sul. 1,870 (Free Market Rate Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 2,090 (Free Market Rate less 5% Contribution Quota} Exports of cocoa derivatives. 2,200 (Free Market Rate} All other export proceeds, receipts. 2,210 ("Manual Market" Rate} Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. less 15% less 20% O ther 2,220 (Free Market Rate} Imports,10 and invisibles and capital exempt from financial charge. 2,220 ("Manual Market" Rate} Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 2,442 (Free Market Rate plus 10% Financial Charge} Invisibles and capital subject to re- duced financial charge. 2,553 (Free Market Rate plus 15% Financial Charge} Invisibles and capital subject to financial charge. 8 With the exception of the "manual market" rates and the rate applicable to petroleum and petroleum products, the e f fec t ive rates included in this table are based on exchange rates of the monetary authorities of Cr$2,200 buying, and Cr$2,220 selling, per US$1. They are exclusive of the cost of a stamp tax and certain other charges, the combined cost of which is about Cr$26 per US$1 on each purchase or sale in the free ma rke t. They are also exclusive of the cost of the guarantee deposits for imports, and they are net of the cost of interest (1 per cent a mon th) charged by the Bank of Brazil on the balance of the value of the contract which is not covered by a guaran tee deposit. 9 The cruzeiro payment per bag and the m in imum registration price vary with the quality of the coffee and the port of sh ipmen t. 10 The e f fec t ive rate for Petrobras' imports of pe tro leum and specified pe t ro leum by-products is determined by its quarterly contracts with the Bank of Brazil. fu ll 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Changes during 1965 During the year, the minimum registration price for exports of d ifferent grades of coffee and/or the cruzeiro payments to exporters per bag of coffee (132 pounds) were changed on several occasions. The effective exchange rates applicable to proceeds from coffee exports changed correspondingly. January 14- SUMOC Instruction 287 provided for an increase from US$30,000 to US$50,000 in the limit on weekly purchases by any one firm of convertible foreign exchange for import payments. Imple- menting regulations increased the corresponding weekly limit for bilateral agreement currencies f rom US$20,000 to US$50,000. To the extent that the importer's purchases of convertible exchange fe ll short of US$50,000, he could acquire an equivalent amount of bilateral agreement currencies in addition to the US$50,000 limit, up to a combined limit of US$100,000 weekly. Specified categories of imports excluded f rom these limits were imports financed with foreign loans for periods of more than 20 years, as well as commodities for which Braz il has made concessions to members of LAFTA. January ll±. The terms on which the Bank of Brazil offered swap loans were tightened. By SUMOC Instruction 289, the Foreign Exchange Department of the Bank of B raz il was authorized, upon purchasing foreign exchange, to guarantee to the seller the right to repurchase foreign exchange, spot or fo rwa rd, up to the same amount. The right of repurchase could be exercised in whole or in part at any time a f ter 90 days and up to 360 days. The repurchase could be made f rom any authorized bank or the Bank of B raz il at the f r ee market rate prevail- ing at the time of the repurchase. Repurchases were exempt from advance deposit and guarantee deposit requirements and f rom the financial charge. Registration of the transaction for the purposes of the Profit Remittance Law would be automatic. Permitted use of the procedure included transactions related to repatriation under the terms of a temporary amnesty of undeclared resident-owned capital held abroad. February 4- SUMOC Instruction 290 introduced a 30 per cent con- tribution quota on the exchange proceeds f rom exports of bee f, resulting in an additional effective buying rate of Cr$l,277 per US$1. The cruzeiro equivalent of the contribution would be paid to SUMOC and used for promoting the production, processing, and marketing of bee f. The measure was accompanied by a decision to authorize the export of 60,000 tons of meat, several times the average authorized in recent years. February 17. Decree 55762 established the regulations for the implementation of the Profit Remittance Law. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL February 23. Interministerial Order 71 (Portaria 71) provided that firms which undertook to ma in ta in stable prices for their products could be granted exemptions f rom the financial charge and advance deposit, as well as a reduction of the guarantee deposit on the exchange cover required for imports of raw materials, spare parts, and com- ponents for their own use; such firms could also be granted a reduction of the advance deposit and financial charge on financial t rans fe rs, as well as an increase in the weekly limit for the acquisition of fore ign exchange for imports. March 5. SUMOC Instruction 292 reduced the contribution quota on exchange proceeds f rom beef exports originating in the State of Rio Grande do Sul f rom 30 per cent to 20 per cent, resulting in an addi- tional effective buy ing rate of Cr$l,460 per US$1. March 29. SUMOC Instruction 293 provided that industrial enter- prises which adhered to the principles laid down in Portaria 71 could use their entire fore ign exchange proceeds f rom exports of their own manu fac tu res to cover their own import requirements of raw materials, spare parts, components, and mach inery and equ ipmen t, as well as to pay their registered financial obligations abroad, w i thout putting up the advance deposit or pay ing the financial charge. Prior to this provision, industrial enterprises had the right to use up to 50 per cent of the proceeds f rom exports of their own m anu f a c tu r es to make the above payments f ree of advance deposits and financial charges. March 31. FIB AN C ircu lar 40 limited to 25 per cent the guarantee deposit for exchange cover for specified imports financed with external loans with a ma tur i ty exceeding 20 years. April 1. The Central Bank of the Repub l ic of B raz il started opera- tions. In accordance with Law 4595 of December 31, 1964 establishing the Central Bank, the Superintendency of Money and Credit (SUMOC) was abolished. The operation of exchange control was taken over from the Bank of Brazil's FIBAN Department by the Exchange Control Sector of the Central Bank (F ICAM ), under the general direction of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank and the National Monetary Council. The Exchange Department of the Bank of B raz il would handle exchange operations for the account of the Central Bank. May 10. FICAM Circular 6 specified the benefits available under Portaria 71 to industrial enterprises for payments in respect of imports and financial t rans fe rs. Industrial firms listed as qua l i fy ing for these benefits were exempt from advance deposit and f rom the financial charge on the exchange cover for imports of raw materials and spare parts intended for the enterprises' own use. The guarantee deposit was reduced f rom 100 per cent to 50 per cent on exchange cover for imports 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL intended for their own use. Qua l i fy ing enterprises were also granted a reduction from 50 per cent to 20 per cent for the advance deposit and from 30 per cent to 20 per cent for the financial charge on financial transfers abroad, and they were exempt f rom the weekly limit on the acquisition of foreign exchange for imports. June 1. FIG AM Circular 14 exempted proceeds f rom exports of cooked and frozen beef f rom contribution quota. June 7. FICAM Circular 18 exempted specified imports financed with external loans with a maturity exceeding 20 years f rom advance deposit and financial charge on the exchange cover. June 22. The prior au thor iza t ion of FICAM was no longer required for the right to purchase fore ign exchange f rom authorized banks to effect remittances abroad of foreign capital, of income therefrom, and of royalties and technical assistance fees registered at FIRCE in accordance with Law 4131, as amended. Authorized banks could engage in exchange operations in respect of such remittances on production of a Certificate of Au thor iza t ion for Remittance issued by FIRCE. When specific authorization for remittances could be stipulated in the original Certificate of Registration issued by FIRCE because the transaction was in the fo rm of a contract involving precise terms of payment, such a Certificate was sufficient to effect the exchange operations. June 24- FICAM Circular 24 permitted authorized banks to sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$50 for personal remit- tances. Such remittances were exempt f rom the 50 per cent advance deposit and 30 per cent financial charge. September 1. Resolution 341 of the Braz i l ian Coffee Institute pro- vided for a guaranteed m in imum registration price for coffee. September 6. The p rac t ice of quoting "agreement currencies" for settlements under certain b i la teral paymen ts agreements at buying and selling rates 5 per cent below the rates for convertible currencies was discontinued. September 22. FICAM Circular 46 established provisions implement- ing the guaranteed m in imum registration price for coffee announced by the B raz i l ian Coffee Ins t i tu te in Resolution 341 of September 1. At the time of the settlement of exchange contracts in respect of coffee exports, exporters were to send to FICAM, either direct or through the au thor- ized banks negotiating the fore ign exchange proceeds, a copy of the bills of lading covering shipments made a f ter September 1. Should the m in imum registration pr ice on the da te of shipment or on the for ty- fifth day a f ter sh ipment be lower than that on the day of registration, FICAM would i n f o rm the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute of the amount 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL for which the importer of that par t icu lar shipment was to be com- pensated. Such compensation was to be equal to the d i f fe rence between the m in imum registration price in e f fect on the date on which the sale was registered at the B raz i l ian Co f fee Institute and either of the fo l low ing prices, wh ichever would result in a bigger d i f fe rence: (1) the pr ice in e f fect on the day the co f fee was shipped or (2) the price in e f fect 45 days a f t er shipment. On the basis of the in fo rma t ion supplied by the Exchange Control Sector, the Braz i l ian Coffee Institute was to issue to the importer a Guaran tee Notice entitling him to contract, w i th in a period of 90 days beg inn ing f rom the date of issue of the Notice, with a B r a z i l i an exporter of his choice, the import of coffee up to the va lue in fo re ign cu r rency stipulated in the Notice. Upon receipt of the Gua ran tee Notice f r om the fore ign importer, the B raz i l ian exporter must present it to the B raz i l ian Co f fee Institute for the purpose of registering the sales con tract "without exchange cover." The exporter would receive a payment in cruze iros f rom the Exchange Department of the Bank of B raz il corresponding to the amount speci- fied in the sales con tract and sh ipp ing do cum en t; this payment would be financed f r om the Coffee Defense Fund. The Gua ran tee Notice could be t rans fe r red between importers in countries with wh ich Braz il did not ma in ta in b i la teral paymen ts agreements. A Guaran tee Notice issued to an importer in a b i la teral payments agreement country could not be t rans fe r red to another coun try, and the imports of co f fee thus realized were to be used for domestic consumption in the respective bilateral country only. September 22. A mu l t i l a t e r al c lear ing agreement was signed by the central banks of Argen t ina, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. November 13. The buy ing and selling rates of the Bank of Braz il were changed f rom Cr$l,825 and Cr$l,850 per US$1, respectively, to Cr$2,200 and Cr$2,220 per US$1, respectively. November 13. Resolution 9 of the Central Bank announced the fo l low ing measures: (1) the e l im ina t ion of advance deposits and financial charges on payments for imports, (2) the elimination of advance deposits and the reduction of the financial charge f r om 30 per cent to 15 per cent on non import paymen t s; the charge was reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent for nonimport payments by firms complying with Portaria 71. November 13. FICAM C ircu lar 56 raised f rom US$50 to US$200 the amount of fore ign exchange wh ich authorized banks could sell f ree ly for personal remittances. November 27. Resolution 346 of the B raz i l ian Coffee Institute pro- vided for the introduction, in addition to the guarantee of the m in imum 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL registration price of coffee exports as stipulated in its Resolution 341 (see September 1, above), of a similar guarantee with respect to the indicative price (i.e., the price calculated in accordance with Resolu- tion 67 of the International Coffee Organ iza t ion). When both the mini- mum registration price and the indicative price were reduced f rom the levels at which they were on the day on which the sales contract was registered, compensation would be given on the basis of the price show- ing the larger reduction f rom the initial level. November 29. It was announced that, with effect f rom January 1, 1966, a customs surcharge of 10 per cent of existing import duties would be levied, except on imports f rom LAFTA countries. November 30. FICAM Circular 65 provided that FICAM would forward copies of bills of lading in respect of coffee exports to the Brazilian Co'ffee Institute, which would henceforth make its own calculations of the compensation due to importers of B raz i l ian coffee as a result of a reduction in the minimum registration price or in the indicative price. December L FICAM Circular 66 eliminated the 25 per cent guar- antee deposit for specified imports financed with external loans with a maturity exceeding 20 years. December 31. The minimum period a f ter which the right to repur- chase foreign exchange sold previously to the Bank of Brazil could be exercised under SUMOC Instruction 289 (see January 14, above) was reduced f rom 90 days to 60 days. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRITISH GUIANA Exchange Rate System The par value is Guyana Dollars 1.71429 = US$1. The Guyana dollar has a fixed relationship to sterling of G$4.80 = £1. The banks in British Gu iana base the rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. The Guyana dollar circulates concurrently with the West Ind ian dollar previously issued by the British Caribbean Currency Boa rd; the West Ind ian dollar is being redeemed at par.1 Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Governor and the Minister of Finance. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing allocations of fore ign exchange for other current pay- ments is delegated to the banks authorized for this purpose. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency British Gu iana is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains pre- scription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Authorized settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, by residents of British Guiana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any fore ign currency or by crediting West Indian dollars or sterling to an External Account. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in any fore ign currency or in sterling or West Indian dollars f rom an External Account. Special regulations apply to payments to and receipts f rom Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of British Gu i an a: External (Sterling A rea) Accounts, External (Non-Sterling A rea) Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. External (Sterling Area) Accounts are held by residents of Sterling Area countries other than British Gu iana. They may be credited with all authorized payments by residents of British Gu iana to other Sterling Area countries and with transfers f rom other External 1 The Currency Board issued the West Indian dollar also in Barbados, Leeward Islands, Trinidad and Tobago, and Windward Islands, and there are no restrictions on the movements of local currency notes between these areas. 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRITISH GUIANA (Sterling Area) Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited for payments for any purpose due f rom residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to residents of British Guiana, for trans- fers to other External (Sterling A rea) Accounts in British Guiana, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in British Gu iana; other debits require approval. External (Non-Sterling Area) Accounts are held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia. They may be credited with all authorized payments by residents of British Guiana to the residents of countries outside the Sterling Area and with transfers from other External (Non-Sterling Area) Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited for any payments due from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area to residents of British Guiana, for transfers to other External (Non-Sterling A rea) Accounts in British Gu iana, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in British Gu iana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for authorized payments, including the purchase of approved securities. imports and Import Payments Imports subject to individual licensing cover a wide range; they include coffee, sugar, vegetables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fats, copra, vegetable and animal oils, petroleum products and other fuels, building materials, gold, diamonds and jewe lry, and firearms. The granting of individual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; at the end of 1965, licenses were not being issued for some of the categories mentioned above. Other goods may be imported under an open general license. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for transactions exceeding G$240. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval, which is given freely. As a working rule, limits are usually applied to certain payments on an annual basis, e.g., for travel abroad (G$666), for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each c h i l d ), for education at universities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 for each student), and for family maintenance (G$4,800). 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRITISH GUIANA Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana and West Indian currency notes not exceeding G$100; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, notes to the value of G$50 may be taken out in the form of fore ign currency notes as part of any travel exchange allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are f ree of export license, but are supervised by the authorized banks and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in specified currencies,2 surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in the specified currencies on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may br ing in any currency notes freely. Capital New investments by nonresidents require the approval of the exchange control. Such approval is normally given for direct invest- ments in new projects that would benefit British Gu iana; it carries with it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the investment the proceeds, inc lud ing any capital increments, may be repatriated in f u l l. The export of capital by residents is not normally permitted. Speci- fied currencies obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Changes during 1965 July 22. The 1962 regulations imposing restrictions on certain pay- ments to the rest of the Sterling Area were revoked. October 15. A central bank, the Bank of Guyana, was established. November 15. The Government of British Gu iana introduced a new monetary unit —the Guyana dollar —to replace the West Indian dollar at par. 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRITISH GUIANA November SO. Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were designated as specified currencies. November 30. The prescription of currency in respect of payments to and receipts f rom Rhodesia was modified. December 15. An agreement to establish a Caribbean Free Trade Area (CARIFTA) with Antigua and Barbados was signed; the agree- ment was to come into fo rce not later than September 1, 1966. December 23. The International Monetary Fund concurred in the establishment of an initial par value for the Guyana dollar of C$1.71429 per US$1. 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Burmese Kyats 4.76190 = US$1. The kyat has a fixed relationship to the pound sterling of K 13.333 = £1. Rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the kyat-sterling rate and the rates for other currencies in the London exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board. All imports and exports are hand led by various government agencies under the Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Burma is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area are made in a Sterling Area currency. Payments to Mainland China, with which Burma has a bilateral payments agreement, are made through a clearing account denominated in sterling. Payments to other countries may be made in sterling through an External Account, in any non-Sterling Area currency, or by crediting kyats to the account of a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Prescription of currency requirements for receipts are the same as those for payments, except that if foreign currency is obtained it must be one of the specified currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are made by the Government and government agencies. Most consumer goods are imported by the Trade Council. Imports f rom South A f r i ca are prohibited. Also prohibited are imports of a few commodities f rom any source —principally opium and similar narcotics, monkeys, p lay ing cards, and gold and silver bullion. All payments for imports are made through the State Commercial Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to licensing. In general, payments for items connected with fore ign trade are allowed auto- matically, and payments for other purposes are considered on a case-to- case basis. Remittances of income resulting f rom investment other than that guaranteed under the Investment Act have been temporarily 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA suspended. Most personal money order remittances to ne ighbor ing countries through post offices are not permitted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by residents have been temporarily suspended. However, residents granted an off ic ial permit to go abroad for any purpose may take out f ree ly the equivalent of K 50 in the currency of the country of destination (except Ind ia) or, if that currency is not ava i lab le, in sterling notes. On leaving, non- resident travelers who have stayed in the country for less than six months may take out any fore ign currency they still hold and may also reconvert one fou r th of the amount of foreign currency wh ich they had converted into kyats. The export of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by government agencies. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and a lum inum and scraps thereof, foreign manu fac tu res, and commodities of domestic origin wh ich it is desired to conserve for domestic requirements. All exports to South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner sa t isfac tory to the exchange control au thor i t ies; the exchange must be surrendered to the Union Bank of Burma within six months from the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to dec lara t ion, any amount in fo re ign currency. The import of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Investment Act, 1959, and the Investment Rules of February 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Investment proposals are considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw materials, increase domestic employment, conserve fo re ign exchange, and gen- erally con fo rm to the economic p lans of the Government. However, since February 15, 1963, when the Government announced a new policy of na t iona l iza t ion, permission has not been granted for setting up new private industries. The investment law provides for the t ran s fer abroad of profits a f ter taxes and for the w i thd rawal of imported capital at any time a f ter five years f rom the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA 25 per cent of its original value. Proceeds f rom the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. All such transfers may be made at the off ic ial rate of exchange prevailing at the time of the transaction. The repatriation of personal assets and fam i ly remittances has been temporarily suspended for fore ign nationals employed in the private sector. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to blocked accounts. The use of balances on blocked accounts is sub ject to individual permit. Residents are not usually permitted investment. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require ind iv idual licenses. to remit funds abroad for Changes during 1965 December 19. A Trade Council replaced the People's Stores Corporation. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Exchange Rate System The par value is Burundi Francs 87.50 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. The off ic ial rates on December 31, 1965 were FBu 86.50 buying, and FBu 87.20 selling, per US$1. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transactions at rates between the buying and selling rates fixed by the Bank of the Kingdom of Burundi for currencies quoted by that bank l and at rates fixed freely with their customers for certain other currencies.2 Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Kingdom of Bu rund i; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any cu r rency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Kingdom of Burundi.3 Nonresident Accounts Certain nonresidents may ma in ta in nonresident accounts in foreign currencies with an authorized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to (1) physi- cal persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) ju r id ical persons having branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited f ree ly with any fore ign exchange that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Burundi f r an cs required to pay any expenses in Burundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 These currencies are Angolan escudos, East African shillings, Rhodesian pounds, and South African rand. 3 There is an inoperative paymen ts agreement with Mainland China. 88 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Imports and Import Payments All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to FBu 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely, except for certain used clothing. Applications for licenses in amounts of FBu 100,000 or more must be submitted to the Bank of the Kingdom of Burund i, through an authorized bank, on a fo rm entitled Import License and Payment Au thor iza t ion. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. Applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks, unless the merchandise is imported by air, when an application must be submitted to the central bank. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs clearance fo rm, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c . i . f. value are required for specified nonessential goods f rom importers whose outstanding exchange commitments against import licenses are the equivalent of FBu 100,000 or over. The required deposit on such commodities is 50 per cent or 100 per cent. Advance deposits are not required, however, on non- essential goods imported in small amounts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 20,000 for goods requ ir ing a 50 per cent deposit, or less than FBu 10,000 for goods requ ir ing a 100 per cent deposit. The deposit must be made at the time the import license application is app roved; it is released when the import payment is made. All essential capital goods, raw materials, and consumer goods are free f rom deposit requirements. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Transfers of up to two thirds of net salaries and emoluments of foreign nationals are freely permitted upon proof of payment of taxes. For unincorporated businesses and professional persons, t ran s fe rs are freely permitted of two thirds of income a f t er taxes earned a f ter Janua ry 1, 1965. Companies may free ly t rans fer their net income a f ter taxes for the period beginning Janua ry 1, 1965. Transfers of accumulated earnings accrued prior to 1965 by persons leaving Bu rundi permanently are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Transfer of income f rom rental proper- ties to nonresident owners is permitted a f ter payment of taxes and deduction of normal maintenance expenses; resident owners may remit two thirds of such income. Residents may purchase reasonable amounts of exchange for foreign travel; they may take out this exchange and 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets up to certain limits against pay- ment in Burundi f ranc s; these limits are, for air travel, FBu 60,375 for a round trip in economy class or FBu 98,175 in first class, and the equivalent of US$360 for su r face travel. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over FBu 3,000 are subject to a prior declara- tion entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange. The Declaration must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank. It is valid for a period of six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days a f ter the goods have left the country when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank within 8 days f rom their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to authorized dealers. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi banknotes. Capital The Investment Code of August 6, 1963 stipulates the rules under which domestic and foreign private investments may be made in Burundi. Investments of fore ign capital are permitted in the form of participation through the acquisition of shares and loans granted for a period exceeding five years and constituting a determining financial element in a firm established in Burundi. Investments in specified existing economic activities (e.g., industrial development, fa rm ing, fisheries, tourist indus tr ies), as well as new investments in activities that f u l f i ll certain conditions relating to the realization of the economic development plan, may be accorded specified priority rights. Such rights consist mainly of exemptions f r0m import duties and f rom taxes on income f rom investments. Moreover, certain of the above enterprises, when expanding their activities, may be granted additional concessions. Applications for priority status must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who fo rwa rds them to an Investment Commission. Recognition of priority status is granted by a royal decree. Foreign capital, as defined above, which is invested in a priority enterprise, may be repatriated af ter five years. The trans- fer of profits and interest of up to 5 per cent per annum of the invested capital is permitted. 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, which is rarely given, except in the case of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in specified currencies (see footnote 1) by resident enterprises for work ing capital purposes and is va l id for one year from the date on which the exchange is surrendered to the central bank through an authorized bank. The guarantee provides for the transfer at the off ic ial rate of the original amount surrendered. Changes during 1965 January 26. An initial par value for the Burundi f r anc of FBu 87.5000 per US$1 was agreed with the International Monetary Fund. February 11. All exchange transactions were henceforth to take place within prescribed margins of the par value in replacement of the system of multiple currency practices previously in force. The free market, in which the rate was about FBu 117.00 per US$1 in December 1964, was abolished, as were the 5 per cent and 20 per cent exchange taxes, which had resulted in effective selling rates of about FBu 52.50, FBu 60.00, and FBu 122.85 per US$1 in addition to the official rate of FBu 50.00 per US$1. February 11. Restrictions on payments for certain current invisibles were relaxed. February 11. Quantitative restrictions on imports were abolished; advance deposits of 20 per cent, 50 per cent, or 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value were henceforth required for all imports. Customs duties were increased on goods former ly imported with free market exchange. February 11. Certain nonresidents could open nonresident accounts in foreign currencies in Burundi. March 17. A. repatriation guarantee could be granted on foreign exchange imported by resident enterprises for working capital purposes and surrendered to the central bank. April 29. Advance import deposits were no longer required when, calculated at the appropriate rate of deposit, they would amount to less than FBu 10,000 for one import license. May 7. Residents could freely purchase tickets for foreign travel up to specified amounts for each trip. June 9. The period within which proceeds f rom exports to neighbor- ing countries must be collected was reduced f rom 90 days to 45 days. July 1. The 20 per cent advance deposit requirement was abolished. November 19. Imports of used clothing were restricted. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA1 Exchange Rate System The Cambodian Riel is defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0253905 gram of fine gold. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling are carried out at parity rates based on the gold content of the riel and the respective currencies; these rates are Riels 35 = US$1 and Riels 98 = £1. The official parity for the French franc, however, is fixed at Riels 10 = F 1; this rate is applicable to most settlements in French francs. Foreign tourists staying at all officially listed hotels are given coupons for 25 riels over and above the rate of 35 riels for each U.S. dollar sold. Sales and purchases of foreign banknotes quoted on the Phnom-Penh official market are made at the selling rate plus 3 per cent and at the buying rate minus 1 per cent, respectively. Rates for foreign bank- notes quoted "indicatively" on that market are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of the average rates announced by the National Bank of Cambodia plus a commission of 1 per cent for purchases and of 4 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are empowered to negotiate for their own account, and at a rate mutually agreed with their customers, foreign banknotes other than those quoted officially or "indicatively" by the National Bank of Cambodia. Arbitrage operations involving convertible currencies may be author- ized by the National Exchange Office. If the operations take place in Cambodia, they are carried out at the rate of the day on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in cooperation with the National Bank of Cambodia; this office is empowered to authorize all operations related to settlements with foreign countries, to foreign investments, and to nonresident accounts. All import and export transactions are effected by the National Import-Export Corporation (Societe Nationale d'Exportation et d'Importation or SONEXIM). The Ministry of National Economy is in charge of import and export controls, but it has delegated this authority to SONEXIM. Import and export licenses are issued by SONEXIM and must be domiciled with the Cambodian Bank of Com- merce and the National Bank; the bank's visa is required before licenses are presented to the customs. 1 Cambodia is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Prescription of Currency Settlements with ten countries with which Cambodia has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those maintained for Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam are denominated in pounds sterling, and those for Bulgaria, North Korea, the Republic of Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia in U.S. dollars. Currencies prescribed for settlements with other countries are usually specified in the licenses. Payments for imports from the French Franc Area must be made in French francs. Payments for imports f rom other countries are ordinarily made in the currency of the country of the exporter. Foreign investments must be made in a currency acceptable to the National Bank. Profits on, and proceeds f rom the liquidation o f, foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the investment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be maintained for non- residents: Foreigners' Accounts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Cambodian nationals staying abroad temporarily but not recognized as non- residents, and foreigners staying in Cambodia but not recognized as residents, may maintain special Internal Accounts of Nonresidents. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, without permission, for foreigners residing abroad. They are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with (1) proceeds f rom the sale on the Phnom-Penh market of the currency (but not banknotes) of the country of the account ho lder; (2) pay- ments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) from the country of the account ho lder; (3) earnings on investments in Cambodia and receipts from repayments on Cambodian stocks and bonds and on other investments made in Cambodia a f ter May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the accounts. These accounts may be free ly debited for normal expenses in Cambodia and purchases on the Phnom-Penh market of banknotes of the country of the account holder. Transfers between Foreigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same country may be made free ly. Capital Accounts may be opened without permission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be credited with (1) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds imported from abroad or kept with an authorized bank in a dossier related to the 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA country of the account holder; (2) proceeds f rom the sale in Cambodia of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) contractual or advance repayments of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds f rom the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in Cambodia and in the possession of a nonresident account holder since January 1, 1955 or acquired by him either through inheritance or with the permission of the National Exchange O f f ice; (5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to January 1,1955, or a f ter that date with the approval of the National Exchange O f f i c e; and (6) t rans fe rs f rom another capital account related to the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be free ly debited for (1) living expenses of the account holder or his fam i ly up to 1,000 riels a person a day, and up to a maximum of 50,000 riels monthly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in Cambodia (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, etc .). Subject to authorization f rom the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for (1) purchases in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (2) subscriptions to, or increases in capital of, a Cambodian firm; (3) purchases through an authorized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in Cambodia; (4) loans in riels to residents; (5) transfers to another capital account related to the country of the account ho lde r; (6) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (corpora- tion, bank, e t c . ); and (7) g if ts to individuals and to social, cultural, and religious associations. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be free ly debited for (1) taxes in Cambodia, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and (3) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder and his fam i ly, up to 2,000 riels a day. All other operations through these accounts are subject to individual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be free ly credited with foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts (1) to cover expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, missions, and the purchase of fore ign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any kind in Cambodia by converting balances on these accounts into riels on the Phnom-Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon author- ization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be free ly credited with (1) proceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange on the Phnom-Penh marke t; (2) transfers f rom Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) wages, salaries, allowances, 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA and payments for expenses of Cambodian nationals employed by Cambodian firms and temporarily residing ab road; (4) income earned in Cambodia by account ho lders; (5) redeposits of previous with- drawa ls; and (6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be free ly debited for (1) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder or his fam i ly, (2) administrative expenses related to the account holder's property in Cambodia, and (3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts require authorization. Imports and Import Payments An annual import program is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Twice a year, the National Bank of Cambodia places at the disposal of the Ministry a specific amount of foreign exchange to pay for the programed imports. Permissible imports are classified in six lists. The list of "financeable" imports contains those commodities sub ject neither to a compensation payment (perequation) nor to a fixed resale price. Commodities on lists A, B, and C are subject to compensation payments of 46 riels, 41.5 riels, or 35 riels per U.S. do l lar, respectively.2 Commodities on List D require a compensation payment of 10-50 per cent of the c.i.f. price. List E contains the commodities that are sold by SONEXIM to local distributors at fixed prices. All imports are effected by a state-trading agency, the National Import-Export Corporation (SONEX IM ). Applications for goods to be imported may be submitted by industries and traders to SONEXIM, which transmits them to a Special Board in the Ministry of Commerce for consideration. The Special Board allocates appropriate fore ign exchange to SONEXIM for those applications it approves. Payments far Invisibles All payments for invisibles requ ire ind iv idual licenses. A foreigner working in Cambodia and receiving a monthly salary exceeding 5,000 riels in Phnom-Penh, or 3,500 riels in the provinces, may t rans fer up to 30 per cent of his net mon th ly sa la ry —a f ter pay- ment of taxes —plus 15 per cent of his mon th ly salary if a dependent w i fe stays abroad, plus an add i t ional 10 per cent if dependent ch i ldren, parents, or grandparen ts stay abroad. (The add i t ional percentage of transferab le income is 2 per cent for each legitimate child or dependent parent or grandparent, with a max imum of 10 per cent of the net 2 The corresponding compensation payments when settlement is made in French francs are 7.5 riels, 6.5 riels, or 5 riels, respectively, per French f ranc. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA monthly income for each fam i ly .) Such transfers may not exceed the equivalent of 20,000 riels a month. Transfer facilities are not granted for salaries and wages exempt f rom income tax. Overtime pay is con- sidered t rans fe rab le income only when it is received in payment for courses given in public educational institutions. Women of foreign nationality married to Cambodian nationals and working in the private sector are not permitted to t rans fer savings f rom salaries or wages to their country of origin. Foreign landlords domiciled in Cambodia may transfer up to 30 per cent of the taxable portion of their income f rom rent, provided that the rent exceeds 5,000 riels for landlords living in Phnom-Penh or 3,500 riels for landlords living in the provinces. Foreign landlords living abroad may transfer up to 20 per cent of the taxable portion of rent. Foreigners residing in Cambodia, when leaving the country tempo- rarily or permanently, are permitted to t rans fer abroad, up to pre- scribed limits, savings out of their salaries earned in Cambodia. The transfer of up to 80 per cent of net profits f rom nonresident investments made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized, provided that the investment is recognized by the M in is try of Finance as useful to the economic development of Cambodia. Net profits that do not exceed 20 per cent of foreign made a f ter May 31,1956 may be transferred. Cambodians studying abroad may receive monthly exchange allo- cations equivalent to 6,000 riels for France; 4,500 riels for Belgium and Japan; 5,000 riels for Switzerland; 5,500 riels for the United States and the United K ingdom; and 4,000 riels for any other country. A Cambodian student granted a scholarship may receive a monthly allocation to cover the d i f fe rence between the scholarship and the permissible exchange allocation. The allocation of fore ign exchange for tourist travel and business travel has been suspended. The export of Cambodian currency is prohibited. investments Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the National Import-Export Corporation (SONEXIM), in accordance with an annual export program prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Export proceeds are surrendered to the National Exchange Office. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign tourists stay- ing at all officially listed hotels are given coupons for 25 riels over 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA and above the rate of 35 riels for each U.S. dollar sold. Only au- thorized banks may purchase foreign exchange f rom travelers. The import of Cambodian currency is prohibited. Foreign exchange must be declared by travelers when entering Cambodia; if imported by residents, it must be surrendered within seven days f rom the day of entry into Cambodia. Capital All capital transfers require ind iv idual licenses. No t rans fer abroad of proceeds f rom the sale of property by a foreigner to a fore igner is permitted. Foreigners who sell their property to Cambodians and leave Cambodia permanently may transfer initially up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the remainder may be authorized for transfer annually, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repay- ment of loans originally granted in fore ign currency may be considered t rans fe rab le income. Since May 31, 1956, all fo re ign investments have been subject to authorization f rom the Ministry of Finance, wh ich requires that a certain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Cambodian participation and that its employees should be Cambodians. Only investments for the creation of activities recognized as u se ful to the economic development of the country and not involving monopoly or special privilege may be au thor ized. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of authorized investments made a f ter May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly installments not exceeding 20 per cent of the total investment. Up to 10 per cent of the proceeds f rom the liquidation of investments made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized for transfer every year. Foreign capital invested a f ter May 31, 1956 is guaranteed the same tax treatment that is applied to resident investments; in addition, special incentives (par t ial exemption f rom duties and taxes on rein- vested profits, and on equipment goods or raw materials imported during the first year of opera t ion) may be accorded to fore ign invest- ment considered as excep t iona l ly use ful to the Cambodian economy. There is a guaran tee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropriation, and for a ju st and equitable indemnity in the event of nationalization or expropriation of investments. Changes during 1965 January 1. Foreign tourists staying at hotels of the Societe Khmere des Auberges Royales at Siemreap were no longer given coupons for 25 riels over and above the rate of 35 riels for each U.S. dollar sold. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA January 1. The allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel and business travel was discontinued. March 1. The premium previously granted to foreign tourists (see January 1, above) was reintroduced until the end of the yea r; it was now applied to all officially listed hotels in Cambodia. August L The monthly exchange allocation for wives and children of Cambodians studying abroad was discontinued. September 30. Permissible imports were classified in six commodity lists; commodities in four were subject to compensation charges (perequation). 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON * Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The o f f ic ial unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f r an c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 The BCEAEC stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f r an cs against French f r an cs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange rates for other curren- cies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate of Exchange and International Settlements wh ich operates under the authority of the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and Planning. Foreign trade regula- tions are made by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and Planning on the advice of the Directorate of Commerce and Foreign Economic Relations. The latter Directorate also issues import and export li- censes; both require the visa of the Directorate of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with countries with wh ich Cameroon maintains bilateral payments agreements 3 are made through special accounts under the terms of the agreements. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through banks domiciled in France, in any of the currencies of those countries or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; payments may also be made through postal channels. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. 1 In view of a development that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 The CFA f ranc c ircu la t ing in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de FA f r ique Equa tor ia le et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon. 8 Mali and the United A rab Republic. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Imports and Import Payments The import f rom all sources of certain goods (wines, flour, agricul- tural tools, matches, secondhand clothing, sugar, and certain textiles of Asian origin) is sub ject to restrictive licensing. Other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. The import of a number of goods f rom EEC countries other than France is liberalized. All other imports are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by the Ministry of Economic A f f a i rs and Planning and are discussed in a jo int French-Cameroonian Committee. The allocations of the pro- gram are subsequently subdivided into quotas for West and East Cameroon. Separate global quotas are established for imports from EEC countries other than France and for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area. Under quotas established for imports f rom EEC countries, only goods originating in those countries may be imported. Under the quotas for other countries, goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area may be imported. Import licenses are not issued until the importer has received his allotment of fore ign exchange f rom a technical committee headed by the Director of Commerce and Foreign Economic Relations. For pur- poses of this distribution, registered importers are classified according to the value of their annual imports, although exchange may also be made available, under certain conditions, to newly established im- porters and to industrial enterprises that are not registered importers. Import licenses which do not involve a request for fore ign exchange, e.g., for gifts, items sent as guarantees, publicity articles, and supplies for foreign religious missions, may be approved, provided that the importer undertakes not to sell the goods and only to use them for his personal requirements. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e l ow ), licenses are granted for im- ports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid f or with funds f rom EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Directorate of Exchange. The transfer of profits f r om authorized fore ign investments is permitted freely. Transfers of premiums by insurance companies require the ap- proval of the Directorate of Exchange, as do transfers for educational and medical expenses abroad. Foreigners working in Cameroon are 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON permitted to transfer up to 50 per cent of their salary if they have their families abroad, and up to 20 per cent if they are single or have their families in Cameroon. Residents may obtain the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 a year in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area for tourist travel outside the A rea; the allocation for business travel is the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 for each trip. Travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes. Travelers to other destinations may take out up to CFAF 75,000 in legal tender CFA f r anc notes and coins, or the equivalent of CFAF 75,000 in French banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area do not require a license. All other exports require prior authorization or a declaration. Exporters to countries outside the French Franc Area must sign an exchange commitment to the effect that they will surrender the proceeds in non-Franc Area currencies. Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Export proceeds in the currencies of all other countries must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain 12 per cent of their U.S. dollar proceeds, and 8 per cent of their proceeds in other non- Franc Area currencies, in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) accounts. These percentages may be increased by 3 per cent with the approval of the .Directorate of Exchange. Balances on these accounts may be used by the exporters to pay for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own business, for representa- tion and advertising expenses, and for business travel abroad. The holder of the account must every three months surrender 10 per cent of the unused balance. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom securities, must be collected and sur- rendered within three months of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and other countries of the French Franc Area are free of con t ro l; those between Cameroon and all other countries require approval. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in Apr il 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits wh ich may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms unde r tak ing approved new industrial or agr icu l tural projects in Cameroon. The scope and dura- tion of the benefits vary depend ing on the size of the investment, the degree to wh ich it helps implement the economic and social develop- ment p lan, and its impor tance to na t ional economic growth. Cate- gory A permits ma in ly du ty - f ree entry of capital goods and raw materials required for m anu f a c tu r ing and processing. Under Cate- gory B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years f rom the tax on industrial and com- mercial profits and f rom various other taxes and fees. Under Cate- gory C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under wh ich special conditions are agreed for the operations of the company and the na ture and extent of tax concessions are determined. Norma l ly, an "establishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, inc lud ing the assurance of stable conditions for financial t rans fe rs and marke t ing of goods. Category D grants to firms mak ing investments of par t icu lar significance to the national economy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Changes during 1965 March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the b i la teral payments agreement between France and Ruman ia, wh ich was also app l icab le to Cameroon, was terminated. NOTE. —The fo l low ing development took place early in 1966: January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equa tor ial Customs Union ( the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B r a z z av i l l e ), and Gabon) entered into effect. 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Canad ian Do l lars 1.08108 = US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on fo re ign payments. On Ma rch 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Payments and t rans fe rs abroad may be made f ree ly. Import licenses are required for only a few ag r icu l tu ral items, including certain cereals; for some of these items, such as certain da iry products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports f rom any source of certain commodities are generally p roh ib i ted; these include oleo- margar ine, used automobiles, secondhand a i r c r a f t, certain periodicals, and a number of commodities of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are f ree ly disposable. For supply reasons, the export pf a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. For security reasons, the export of certain specified commodities to all destinations except the United States is under export control. All exports to the Sino-Soviet bloc are sub ject to control; certain non- strategic goods, when of Canad ian or ig in, may be exported to these destinations under general perm i t. Petroleum and petroleum products, arms, and military equ ipment may not be exported to Rhodesia. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requ iremen ts are imposed on exchange receipts f rom, or exchange payments fo r, invisibles. Capital No exchange control requ iremen ts are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. xln view of a change that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the situation as at that date. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Changes during 1965 November 11-December 20. Importation was prohibited of sugar, tobacco, ferrochrome, chrome ores and concentrates, asbestos, and meats (sterile, canned, and cooked) of Rhodesian origin. Imports were made subject to the General Tariff rather than the British Preferential Ta r i f f. An embargo was placed on exports to Rhodesia of petroleum and petroleum products, arms, and military equipment. All exports to Rhodesia were made subject to export control. The fac i l i t ies of the Export Credits Insurance Act were w i thdrawn f rom exports to Rhodesia. November 22. Export control to destinations other than the United States was placed on Canadian copper ores, concentrates, matte, anodes, all refinery shapes, rolled copper rod, copper and copper-base alloys in all mill forms, including wire-mill products, secondary ingot, and copper and copper-base scrap. NOTE.—The fo l low ing change took place early in 1966: January 1. With certain exceptions, the entry into Canada of non- Canadian periodicals, such as split runs, containing advertising pri- marily directed to the Canadian market, as well as periodicals in which more than 5 per cent of the advertising contained specific references to sources of availability in Canada or conditions of sale in Canada, was prohibited. 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Central A f r i c an Republic has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial unit of currency is the CFA f ranc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 The BCEAEC stands ready, in trans- actions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f rancs against French francs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris market rates for the other currencies concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, which is an autonomous agency under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. The Foreign Trade Office of the Ministry of National Economy makes allocations of exchange to each importer for goods included in the annual import p rog ram; it also issues import and export licenses, the former require the consent of the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency The Central A f r i c an Repub l ic is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Mainland China are made through accounts established under a bilateral pay- ments agreement with that country. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France, but these accounts have little importance. They are limited to Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. These may be debited freely for settlements with residents of countries in aln view of a development that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 The CFA f ranc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC the area of convertibility, or for purchases of any fore ign currency, but they may be credited only af ter authorization by the Exchange Office. Imports and Import Payments The import of coffee, palm oil, and groundnut oil is prohibited f rom all sources. Imports of household utensils and matches f rom any source may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product. All other imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports f rom EEC countries are liberalized. Imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licens- ing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Central A f r ican Committee. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC coun- tries (other than F rance ), for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area and outside the Sino-Soviet bloc, and for imports from countries of the Sino-Soviet bloc. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for other countries outside the Sino-Soviet bloc may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area except those in the Sino-Soviet bloc. There are subquotas for imports of textiles f rom Far Eastern countries outside the Sino-Soviet bloc. Licenses for imports outside the program are granted for petroleum imports, for which a jo int quota exists for the countries of the Equa- torial Customs Union, for imports financed with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), and for certain imports by diamond and lumber companies. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of National Economy publishes each year a list of the exchange alloca- tions granted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quotas that have been assigned to him. The application must first be domiciled with an authorized bank which collects a fee of 1 per cent of the import value. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office grants its visa and makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Payment up to the equivalent of F 20,000 may be made when the import application is domiciled with a bank; any remaining sum due may not be paid until the goods have been shipped. Import licenses are valid for 9 months and may be extended once for 3 months, i.e., the maximum period of validity is 12 months; in exceptional cases, mainly 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC involving capital goods, a second extension for 3 months may be granted. Under the EFAC arrangements, licenses are granted for imports of goods to be used by the exporter h imse lf, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other coun- tries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Insurance on imports and exports must be contracted with French insurance companies or companies operating in France. The transfer of profits from registered fore ign investment is permitted freely. Residents of foreign nationality (other than that of a French Franc Area country) may transfer to countries outside the French Franc Area their fu ll salary, but the transfer must be made monthly or no less frequently than quarterly. Other invisibles are authorized liberally, provided that corroborating evidence is submitted to the Exchange Office. Residents traveling to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes or French f r anc notes. Residents traveling to a country outside the French Franc Area may obtain a foreign exchange allocation of up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip and may on each trip take out banknotes up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 in French f rancs or up to CFAF 75,000 in CFA f r anc notes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports of cotton, coffee, and diamonds require a license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all other countries require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds of exports to other countries must be surrendered within one month f rom the date of their receipt; col- lection must take place within 180 days f rom arrival of the goods in the country of destination. Exporters may, however, retain 12 per cent of their proceeds f rom exports to Canada and the United States, or 8 per cent of their proceeds f rom exports to other countries, in special, nontransferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Aecessoires) accounts, 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for export promotion expenses and for modernization and expansion needs of their industries. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services from residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 earned in those countries from foreign securities, must be collected and surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold coins). Capital Capital movements between the Central A f r ican Republic and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between the Central A f r ican Republic and all other countries are subject to authorization. Under Law No. 62.355 of February 19, 1963, industrial, tourist, agricultural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central A f r ican Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of specified equip- ment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Law also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Prefer- ential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the territory of the Central A f r ican Repub l ic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon ). Preferential treat- ment C, which contains the most favo rab le provisions, is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of National Economy, who is the Chairman of the Investment Commission which considers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commission, the proposed authoriza- tion is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Board of Directors of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. The transfer of proceeds f rom the liquidation of registered foreign investment is permitted freely. Changes during 1965 March 1. Settlements with Rumania ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Rumania, which was also applicable to the Central Afr ican Republic, was terminated. September 1. Payments up to the equivalent of F 20,000 for imports from countries outside the French Franc Area could be made when the application for an import license was domiciled with an authorized bank. September 1. The validity of import licenses was extended from six to nine months. NOTE.—The following development took place early in 1966: January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon) entered into effect. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is Ceylon Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. Exchange rates are based on the fixed sterling-Ceylon rupee rate (Cey Rs 13.33 = £1) and the rates for other currencies against sterling in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Government. All remittances of foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through banks authorized to carry out operations in fore ign currencies in accord- ance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is hand led by the Controller of Imports and Exports, but licenses for certain industrial imports are issued by the Actual Users Division of the Ministry of Industries. Prescription of Currency Ceylon is a member of the Sterling Area, and the regulations pre- scribing the currencies for settlements with other countries are similar to the regulations of other Sterling Area countries. Payments to the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; and receipts f rom the Sterling Area may be accepted in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with 12 countries with which Ceylon has bilateral payments agreements1 must be made through the relevant clearing accounts. Payments to all other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Ceylon rupees to a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, or in the currency of the creditor country. Receipts f rom all other countries except Rhodesia may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees f rom a sterling External Account or an External Rupee Account, in any specified currency2 other than a Sterling Area currency, or in any nonspecified, non-Sterling Area currency marketable in the United Kingdom, i.e., free ly exchange- able for sterling. Transactions involving deviations f rom the general 1 Ceylon has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hungary, No r th Korea. Poland, Ruman ia, Syrian Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 2 The specified currencies are listed as the currency of any country of the Sterling Area, and Aus tr ian schillings. Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 110 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON regulations require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Ceylon by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. Transfers of balances in these accounts to Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts require approval. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emigrants. Such fund s, unless they originate f rom payments for imports, may be used for investment in Ceylon in prescribed securities. Proceeds from the liquidation of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Imports and Import Payments The value and composition of imports are established by an annual import program. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department, direct imports by other government departments, and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts, and books up to specified amoun t s ), all imports require individual licenses 3 and are divided into three groups —essential goods, less essential goods, and nonessential goods. Licenses to import goods in the first and second groups are issued up to the limits of quotas based on past imports. Imports of many nonessential goods are either prohibited or consider- ably restricted. The right to import is restricted to government-sponsored corpora- tions and registered importers. All imports from countries in the "Cey- lonized" area4 and a few imports f rom any source are restricted to registered Ceylonese traders —a special group of registered importers. Imports of specified commodities5 are restricted to government or state corporations or the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment. In order to allocate quotas, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: (1) actual users of industrial raw materials, machinery, etc., 3Fees are payable on import licenses as fo l lows: Us 5 on licenses valued up to Rs 500; Rs 10 on licenses that exceed Rs 500 but not Rs 1,000 in va lue; when the import license exceeds Rs 1,000, an additional fee of Rs 10 is payable for every Rs 1,000 or part thereof. 4 The "Ceylonized" area comprises Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Japan, Nor th Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., Nor th Viet-Nam, Republic of Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. 5These include rice, wheat, flour (except cornflour), unrefined sugar, refined sugar, red onions, Maldive fish, dried fish, cum in seed, lentils, dhal, cement, fodder, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper products, and petroleum products. 111 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and (3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes. An authorized dealer may approve an application to remit foreign exchange or to credit a nonresident account when the applicant f u r- nishes, or undertakes to fu rn i sh, evidence of importation and of the cost of the goods together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. Most imports are subject to a 10 per cent customs surcharge on the existing rate of import du ty; certain imports are also subject to customs surcharges of 5 per cent ad valorem or 20 per cent of the normal rate of duty. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require individual permits. The remit- tance of profits, dividends, and other investment income was, until July 31, 1964, freely permitted, but since then a moratorium, for one year in the first instance, has been applied to such remittances;6 a first release of accumulated arrears took place in the latter part of 1965. The remittance of l i fe insurance premiums on policies in fo re ign currencies that are purchased by nonnationals residing temporarily in Ceylon is permitted. Foreign exchange for tourist travel abroad is not granted. Business travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of industrial exports, and exchange up to a maximum of £ stg. 6 a day for a maximum period of 30 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for educational expenses is made available only for certain courses of study that will be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Ceylon. For study in educational institutions in "Asian group" countries,7 exchange up to a maximum of Cey Rs 350 a month is allowed; for study in educational institutions in other coun- tries, exchange is made available at £ stg. 60 a month for postgraduate 6 Exemption from the moratorium has been granted for interest on foreign loans; advances or credits obtained abroad by the Government or the Central Bank; interest on government and government-guaranteed securities issued locally, if the investment had been made through inward remittance of foreign exchange; interest on advances or credits available in the usual financial opera- tions connected with trade and paymen ts; interest payable by private parties in respect of credits they had negotiated in the past w i th foreign suppliers of capital goods, etc.; and income resulting from investments in approved industries. Relief is also granted on grounds of hardship. TT he "Asian group" is listed as Aden, Afghanistan, the East Afr ican region, Brunei, Burma, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pakistan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, and United Arab Republic. 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON studies and £ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, plus actual fees and costs of books. For travel and other expenses for medical reasons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced f rom a medical specialist in Ceylon and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treatment cannot be obtained in Ceylon; the amount author- ized will depend on the estimated cost, as certified by the specialist. Indian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for fam i ly maintenance a max imum of Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross monthly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit £ stg. 85 a month for a w i fe and £ stg. 55 for a child, provided that, when the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one third of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon departure. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two th irds of their gross monthly income. Cey- lonese nationals are not granted exchange for fam i ly remittances. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of en t ry; they may not take out Ceylon currency notes and coins. Residents may take out Ceylon or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 a person (Cey Rs 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, provided that they are entitled to travel exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds For purposes of exchange con tro l, licenses issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports; in addition, export licenses issued by the Controller of Imports and Exports are required for all other commodities except 36 items. Licenses for exports to Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, the Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, the Repub l ic of Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, North Viet-Nam, the Repub l ic of Viet-Nam, and the U.S.S.R. are issued only to registered Ceylonese traders. Exports of certain manu fac tu red goods and re-exports of fore ign manu fac tu red articles are allowed only under special permit. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and d iamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the license for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fa ir value for the goods will be received in Ceylon under prescribed regulations and, usually, within four months f rom the date of shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports must be surrendered. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. A traveler entering Ceylon must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Ceylon in the fo rm of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Indian and Pakistan notes is not permitted. Ceylon notes may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, in denominations of Cey Rs 10 or less, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the Government, or in shares of public com- panies incorporated in Ceylon. Proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments in approved projects may be repatriated, along with capital appreciation. Proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of invest- ments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested in Ceylonese securities; the current income thereon is subject to the transfer moratorium. Investments abroad by residents are not normally permitted. Resident-owned securities on which the principal, interest, or divi- dends are payable (either contractually or at the option of the holder) in specified currencies must be registered with the Controller of Ex- change, and the sale or transfer of such securities is allowed only with the permission of the Minister of Finance. Emigrants are not permitted capital remittances except on grounds of dire hardship. Subject to prescribed limits, the t rans fer of their net income, other than investment income, is allowed for one year f rom the date of emigration if the emigrant is under 55 years of age. If the emigrant is over 55 years of age or has acquired foreign citizenship, net income, other than investment income, may be transferred, within certain limits, even a f ter one year. Repatriates leaving Ceylon for residence in the country of their permanent domicile are permitted, at the time of their departure, to transfer assets representing their retirement f u n ds and a reasonable amount of savings up to a maximum of Rs 75,000 for the "Asian group" and Rs 150,000 for other countries. For persons who have been in business in Ceylon, the capital they originally brought into the country plus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be transferred, subject to the above limits. 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Changes during 1965 January 1. Imports of lubricating oils and greases were brought under state trading. The Ceylon Petroleum Corporation became the sole importer of all petroleum products. Imports of newsprint and other paper products, cotton yarn, fodde r, corn, and caustic soda also were reserved for government-sponsored corporations. January 1. Imports of all drugs and medicines required an individual import license. June 14- Certain minor imports no longer required an individual import license; these included gifts, books, and periodicals not exceed- ing Rs 50 a person a year and trade samples or advertising materials not exceeding Rs 250 a shipment. Applications to receive g if ts up to Rs 250 a person a year would be considered on their merits. August 8. An initial step was announced toward the termination of the moratorium imposed on July 31, 1964 on most remittances of investment income. Remittances equivalent to Rs 2 million, corre- sponding to about 10 per cent of prof i ts and dividends accumulated up to June, would be authorized. August 10. A customs surcharge of 10 per cent of the existing rate of import duty was imposed on most imports: exempt were certain food items, drugs and medicines, fertilizers, petroleum products, textiles, motor spare parts, cement, agricultural machinery, and certain items used by the export industries. Import duties on a wide range of food- stuffs and small agricultural implements were abolished, and those on cotton textiles and a few specified items of synthetic textiles were reduced. August 10. A rebate was granted on income tax equal to 5 per cent of the f.o.b. value of specified exports of manu fac tu red goods, provided that such exports yielded a m in imum net earning in foreign exchange of 25 per cent of their f .o.b. value. October 1. The exchange tax. levied at rates of 10 per cent and 20 per cent on certain current remittances and capital transfers was terminated. November 17-December 7. Special regulations were introduced for settlements with Rhodesia. December 24. Imports f rom and exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Chad has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f r a n c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 =US$1.2 The BCEAEC stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f rancs against French f r an cs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris market rates for the other currencies concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Department, which is a department of the Ministry of Finance. Exchange transac- tions are hand led by authorized banks under the direction of the Ex- change Department, wh ich has delegated to the banks considerable authority in these matters. The Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs and the Exchange Department allocate exchange for imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area. Export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economic A f f a i rs and require the approval of the Exchange Department. Prescription of Currency Chad is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area may be made in any cur- rency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks domiciled in France, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Settlements must be made in the currency in which the invoice is expressed. Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applicable throughout the French Franc Area. ^n view of a development that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 The CFA franc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Congo (Brazzaville), and Gabon. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Imports and Import Payments With minor exceptions, imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly. All imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of fo re ign exchange required to implement it are determined by a jo int French- Chadian Committee. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC coun- tries other than France and for imports f rom all other countries out- side the French Franc Area except the U.S.S.R., to which special quotas apply. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for the other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country except the U.S.S.R. For goods included in the annual import program and for imports under quota f rom EEC countries other than France, the Ministry of Economic A f f a i rs publishes each year an announcement of the exchange allotted to each registered importer based on, p r inc ipa l ly, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Depart- ment authorizes the importer's bank to make available to him the foreign exchange required for the purchase of the commodity and for incidental expenses. Import licenses are valid for six months and are automatically extended for another six months. Further extensions are not granted except, in unusual circumstances, for manu fac tu red goods when evidence is presented concerning the time needed for their production. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses over and above the quotas of the import program a re- granted for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made free ly to residents of coun- tries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Depart- ment, which, however, has delegated authority to authorized banks to approve certain transactions. Residents traveling abroad are granted a tourist allocation equivalent to CFAF 250,000 for each passport for each trip. Foreign exchange is granted freely for bona fide business trips. The t rans fer of profits from registered foreign invest- 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD ment is permitted freely. As a rule, foreign nationals employed in Chad may transfer their entire net earnings to their country of origin. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. There is no limit on the means of payment denominated in CFA f rancs or French f rancs that travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out. Resident and nonresident travelers to other destinations may take out up to CFAF 75,000 or up to F 1,000 in banknotes and coins; however, prior to their departure, nonresidents may exchange into foreign currencies means of payment denominated in CFA f rancs and purchased against payment in fore ign exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may, with a few exceptions, be made f r e e ly; exports to all other countries require licenses. Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Export proceeds received in currencies of other countries must be repatriated and surrendered within three months from the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain up to 15 per cent of their export proceeds in special, nontransferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for any expenses outside the French Franc Area and for imports outside the import program; in practice, these accounts are of minor importance. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries must be repatriated and surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins; however, travelers f rom other countries in the French Franc Area must surrender, within one month, amounts in non-Franc Area currencies exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000. Capital Capital movements between Chad and other countries of the French Franc Area are free of control; those between Chad and all other coun- tries are subject to authorization. Investments by residents of countries in the French Franc Area may be made without authorization. Investments by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to the authoriza- 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD tion of the Exchange Department; however, authorized banks and notaries have been granted the authority to approve certain types of investments. Residents may take up loans f rom persons resident outside the French Franc Area up to an amount equivalent to CFAF 50 million, with interest up to 5 per cent per annum and for a period not exceed- ing 2 years; these regulations, however, do not apply to public sector financing. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or fore ign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with wh ich certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enter- prises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Chad. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market inc lude the territory of two or more states of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B r a z z av i l l e ), and Gabon ). Prefer- ential treatments A and B are granted for a period of up to 15 years. Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for p re fe ren t ial treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who, af ter examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the pro ject is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferen t ial treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. P re fe ren t ial treatment B is granted by a decision of the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. The t rans fer of proceeds f rom the liquidation of registered foreign investment is permitted free ly. Changes during 1965 January 1. The Exchange Office became part of the Ministry of Finance under the name of Exchange Department. March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Rumania, which was also applicable to transactions with Chad, was terminated. April 1. Additional imports f rom EEC countries other than France were liberalized. NOTE.—The following development took place early in 1966: January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon) entered into effect. 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Rate System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (wh ich was introduced on January 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par va lue for the Chilean peso established with the Fund on October 5, 1953 is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange markets: the off ic ial market (known as the bank ing marke t) and the brokers' market. Only the Central Bank, the State Bank, authorized commercial banks, and other persons or entities authorized by the Central Bank may operate in these ma rke ts; brokers are not at present permitted to operate in either market. The rates of exchange in both markets are fluctuating rates. Through the bank ing market pass government transactions, proceeds f rom exports, sales of exchange by the large mining companies, receipts f rom a few invisibles, and payments for imports and for some commercial invisibles. Most invisibles and most capital transactions pass through the brokers' market. In general, capital transactions are entitled to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on entry. However, the servicing and w i thdrawal of some capital received through the brokers' market may be effected through the banking market. Importers are permitted to purchase foreign exchange, in advance of the date on wh ich payment for imports can legally be e f fec ted, f rom exporters through commercial banks in a so-called fu tu res marke t; commercial banks are also authorized to contract export proceeds in advance of receipt f rom all registered exporters except the large copper companies. On December 31,1965, the spot exchange rate in the banking market was E° 3.46 buying, E° 3.47 selling, per US$1. On the same date, the effective exchange rates in the bank ing market for "futures" were E° 3.55 buying, and E° 3.56 selling, per US$1. Transactions not permitted in the banking market may be settled in the brokers' market, but in many cases the approval of the Central Bank must first be ob ta ined; certain invisibles that are channeled through the brokers' market are restricted. The exchange rate in the brokers' market on December 31, 1965 was E° 4.20 buying, E° 4.219 selling, per US$1. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for wh ich the Central Bank has not approved a t rans fer application are sub ject to a 4 per cent exchange tax. Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank of Chile is in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some func t ions of the Department have been delegated to local commissions in 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE important cities, and the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper industry has been delegated to the Copper Department. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports by the large copper companies must be received in U.S. dollars or other currencies specifically authorized by the Copper Department. Large copper and iron ore mining enterprises must pay their income taxes in U.S. dollars. All other transactions, including exports of iron ore by small and medium-sized companies, may be settled in any currency, irrespective of the country of origin or destination of the payment. Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified as generally permitted, conditionally permitted, or prohibited. Goods in the generally and conditionally permitted categories must be registered with the Central Bank but may normally be imported in any volume. The Central Bank, however, is empowered to reject import applications (registrations) for any commodity group if total applications for that commodity group in the current month exceed by more than 5 per cent the average monthly registrations for the same group dur ing the past 12 mon ths; when applications are so rejected, the Central Bank must re ject registration for all commodities listed under the same customs tar iff head ing. Dur ing 1965 the Central Bank invoked these powers on several occasions. Imports of goods in the conditionally permitted category are only permitted in "free port" zones, such as Arica, Magallanes, and Aysen, and may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Prohibited imports ( inc lud ing automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone. For specified commodities, importers must, within 60 days a f ter shipment, purchase exchange in the "fu tures market" corresponding to the f u ll registered value against immediate cash payment in local currency; the exchange cannot be remitted until 120 days a f ter the date of the bill of lading. All other imports are entitled to exchange in the banking market, but this cannot be obtained until 120 days af ter the date of the bill of lading covering the goods; exchange for these other imports may also be purchased in the "fu tures market" within 60 days a f ter shipment. Almost all imports are subject to customs surcharges calculated by the addition of two separate charges (the impuesto adicional and the impuesto adicional agregado) and payable when the goods are cleared through customs. The fo l low ing items are exempt: imports by large 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE companies concerned with m in ing iron, copper, nitrates, or iodine; crude petroleum and diesel oil destined for the nitrate, subnitrate, and iodine industries; imports by the University of Ch i le; imports under loans or credits f rom the Export-Import Bank of Washington or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; imports under the Surplus Agricultural Commodities Agreement with the United States; spare parts for agricultural mach ine ry; planes and parts for Chilean airlines; j u te sacks, magnetic enamels, etc.; certain capital goods; and goods in the conditionally permitted category imported into the "free port" zones of Ar ica and Magallanes. The surcharges range from nil to 400 per cent of the c.i.f. value and are paid in escudos at a rate of exchange that is periodically established by the Central Bank. On December 31, 1965 this rate was E° 3.55 per US$1. Most imports in the generally permitted category are subject to advance deposit requirements, wh ich must be discharged in escudos at the time of registration. The importer's deposit obligation generally is equal to the amount of the import surcharges. Thus, the max imum advance deposit generally is 400 per cent of the c . i . f. value. For protective reasons, however, certain imports continue to be sub ject to an advance import deposit expressed as a percentage of the c . i . f. value and h igher than the import surcharge; the rate for these items is 10,000 per cent. The fo l low ing imports are exempt f rom advance deposit require- ments: imports by the Government, the municipalities, the universities, certain specified state enterprises, the large mining companies, and the fishing indus try; imports financed by in terna t ional organizations or under agreements for U.S. agr icu l tural surpluses; imports on a de fe r red payments basis; imports into the "free port" zones; imports of food- s tuffs into the pr inc ipal m in ing a r e a; imports to replace mach inery and equipment damaged or destroyed in the 1960 ear thquake; household effects and personal effec ts of travelers; personal effec ts of certain imm ig ran ts; household goods of returning Chileans and resident fore igners; imports not of a commercial charac ter and valued at less than US$100; and imports that originate in other member countries of LAFTA and are inc luded either in Chile's National List for LAFTA countries or in Chile's List of Privileges extended to Paraguay and Ecuador. These exemptions do not apply to items subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit, except for imports f rom LAFTA countries of goods on the Chilean National List. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made through the brokers' market in accordance with the regulations applicable to those items in that 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE market. Payment at the rate of exchange in the banking market is permitted for a few commercial invisibles; all other transactions take place in the brokers' market. Payments through the brokers' market may be effected up to established limits for the fo l low ing purposes: for tourist travel, up to the equivalent of US$300 a person a year for travel to Latin Amer ican countries, or up to US$600 a person a year for travel to other coun tr ies; for f am i ly remittances, up to US$100 a month for each bene f ic ia ry; for books, up to US$30 a person a mon th; for subscriptions to periodicals, up to US$100 a person a yea r; for medicine and pharmaceutical products, up to US$100 a person a mon th; and for insurance prem iums, up to US$100 a person a month. Transfers in excess of these limits, and those in respect of other transactions, require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for which the Central Bank has approved a t rans fer application, are subject to a tax of 4 per cent, wh ich is applicable not only to purchases of notes and checks but also to payments in respect of bills of exchange and letters of credit. Residents of Chilean nationality traveling to Latin American countries are required to pay a travel tax of E° 30 a t r ip; for travel to other countries, the tax is E° 60 a trip. Travelers may take out any amount in Chilean bankno tes; resident travelers may take out 10 per cent of their travel allowance in fo re ign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported free ly, but exports of some items are prohibited or are subject to quota. In order to enforce these require- ments and to ensure the repatriation of export proceeds, all exports, except those of the large copper mines and the Nitrate and Iodine Sales Corporation (COVENSA) must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank. The Central Bank also certifies the f .o .b. va lue of the exports for the purpose of restitution of duties and taxes to exporters of certain agr icu l tural and industrial products either imported earlier for processing or produced locally. The proceeds of exports of copper by the large mining companies must be received in a prescribed currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, a b o v e ). For most exports except those by the large copper and iron mines and COVENSA, exporters must repatriate within 90 days f r om the date of shipment the total value of their exports and must sell the exchange w i th in 10 days f rom its repatriation through an au thor ized bank at the exchange rate in the bank ing market. The Executive Committee of the Central Bank, however, may allow exporters to repatriate export proceeds at a later da te; accordingly, longer surrender periods have been established for some minor exports. The large copper companies sell exchange to the Central Bank only to 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE the extent needed to meet their local requirements. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an 'authorized bank, wh ich must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. The bank issues a certificate that payment has been made or arranged in an approved manner, to enable clearance of the export through customs. All registered exporters except the large copper companies may sell their export proceeds to a commercial bank in advance of receipt; the proceeds of certain com- modities are bought in this manner by the Central Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts of exchange f rom news and communications agency fees, f rom specified transactions .by na t ional insurance companies, from commissions, f rom reimbursements of insurance claims, and f rom credit granted in foreign currency by the commercial banks must be sold in the bank ing market. Exchange derived f rom other invisibles, inc lud ing tourism, may be sold in the brokers' market or retained. Travelers may b r ing in any amount in domestic or fore ign banknotes. Capital Large m in ing companies (copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine) may freely remit interest, dividends, and amortization on invested capital up to the amount of their exchange receipts that they are not required to surrender or use to pay local taxes. Capital may be brought in to Chile through either exchange market. Normally, capital is subject to the same exchange market treatment on exit as on en try; this policy applies also to remittances of dividends and profits on the capital. Foreign cap i tal may enter Chile under one of three d i f fe rent arrangements, depending on the purpose and the type of the investment. (1) Article 14 of Decree 1272 (September 7, 1962) stipulates that capital brought into the country in the fo rm of foreign exchange may be free ly sold in the brokers' market th rough au thor ized banks when the investor ( ind iv idual or corporation, na t ional or fo re ign) has registered with the Central Bank. To this end, the Central Bank issues a non transferab le certificate wh ich also permits the f ree outward t ran s fer of the capital th rough the brokers' market. The remittance of profits or interest on this capital requires the authorization of the Central Bank. (2) According to Article 16 of the above Decree, the investor may enter into a loan agreement with a Chilean ind iv idual or corporation, or into an agreement with a na t ional enterprise with a view to capital participation. In these cases, the investor has an option between the banking market and the brokers' marke t; the Central 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Bank guarantees access to the exchange market chosen for the entry of the capital, both for the servicing of loans and the re-export of capital, and for the remittance of interest and profits. The guarantee is given subject to certain conditions, one of which is a minimum investment period of 3 years. As an application and extension of Article 16, the Executive Committee of the Central Bank on November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an additional regime to fu r ther foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promotion of exports of agr icu l tura l, industrial, and mining products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatriation may take place in the banking market, provided that the amount repatriated is financed f rom the increase in the volume of exports resulting from the investment. The regime is implemented through individual invest- ment agreements in accordance with Article 16. Repatriation of the invested capital may start 2 years a f ter entry and may amount to 12% per cent annua l ly of the invested capital. In addition, the remittance of interest or profits is permitted annually up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of capital, and the t rans fer of interest or profits thereon, may be effected through the banking market, provided that the amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of exchange resulting f rom the volume increase in exports. If this criterion prevents the t rans fer of the fu ll amount of amortization, interest, and profits through the banking market, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' market. The above privileges are only granted to firms that will not purchase foreign exchange in the bank ing market to acquire abroad any machinery, equipment, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. (3) The most important law governing foreign investment is Decree-Law 258 of 1960, wh ich establishes a regime both for fore ign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. A Foreign Investment Committee approves by decree the particular investment; it establishes both guarantees regarding with- drawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guarantees regarding exemption f rom payment of certain import surcharges, customs duties, and taxes. Such privileges may be granted for a period of 10 years, with extension to 20 years in special cases. Remittances are effected in the same market (normally the bank ing market) through wh ich the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting from the export proceeds of his investment. Changes during 1965 January 7. Law No. 16101 empowered the Central Bank to reject import applications for any commodity group for which total import applications during any month exceeded by more than 5 per cent the 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE average mon th ly import registrations of the past 12 months. When applications for any commodity were rejected, applications for all other commodities contained in the same customs tariff category would have to be rejected. January 28. Access to the " fu tu res market" was granted for all imports subject to a 50 per cent advance deposit requirement, provided that the compulsory deferment period of 120 days had been completed. Access to the "futures market" was also granted for all imports that before April 30, 1964 had complied with the deferment period, and for imports subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement that before May 31, 1964 had complied with the deferment period. January 29. The Central Bank announced certain procedures for the implementation of Law 16101. The Central Bank would either accept or reject any import application within 90 days of its being received. February 17. The surrender period for the exchange proceeds f rom certain minor exports was revised. February 23. Access to the "fu tures market" was granted for imports subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement that by June 30, 1964 had complied with the compulsory deferment period, and for imports subject to advance deposit requirements in excess of 100 per cent that by May 31, 1964 had complied with the deferment period. March 16. Access to the "fu tures market" was granted for imports subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement that by Septem- ber 30, 1964 had complied with the compulsory deferment period, and for imports sub ject to advance deposit requirements in excess of 100 per cent that by August 31, 1964 had complied with the deferment period. March 19. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E ° 3.20 per US$1. March 20. Basic allocations were introduced for certain invisibles and for certain imports for personal use. The main items were as fo l lows: for tourist travel, up to the equivalent of US$300 a person a year for travel to Latin American countries, or up to US$600 a person a year for travel to other countries; for fam i ly remittances, up to US$100 a month for each benef ic iary; for books, up to US$30 a person a mon th; for subscriptions to periodicals, up to US$100 a person a y e a r; for medicine and pharmaceutical products, up to US$100 a person a mon th; and for insurance premiums, up to US$100 a person a month. April 26. Spare parts valued at up to US$500 could be ordered and shipped prior to registration; registration was required within 15 days of shipment. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE April 30. Exchange for frozen or chilled meat and for cattle on the hoof could no longer be obtained in the "futures market." May 6. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.26 per US$1. May 14. Access to the "futures market" was granted for imports of meat and livestock into the northern part of the country. May 18. Regulations were issued fac i l i ta t ing the purchase of copper by manufac turers who required it for export production. They could buy U.S. dollars in the "fu tures market" to purchase copper f rom the large mining companies. May 25. Import registrations were limited to the f .o .b. value plus insurance and f re igh t; any fu r ther charges could only be included in the registered import value if the Central Bank gave its prior approval. May 28. Access to the "futures market" was granted for imports subject to a 100 per cent advance deposit requirement that by January 31, 1965 had complied with the compulsory de fe rment period, and for imports subject to advance deposit requirements in excess of 100 per cent that by September 30, 1964 had complied with the de fe r- ment period. June 8. Regulations were issued concerning imports on a deferred payments basis covered by U.S. AID credit. With the exception of certain specified types of plant and machinery, all imports with such financing would require the prior approval of the Commission for Industries. June 8. Representatives' commissions could no longer be transferred abroad. June 12. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.30 per US$1. June 23. A consolidated list was issued of all imports which had access to the "futures market." July 10. The requirement that imports must be cleared through customs within 150 days of registration was replaced by the prescrip- tion that importers seek a new registration when goods had not been shipped within 150 days of registration. July 12. Access to the "futures market" was granted for all imports that by January 1, 1965 had complied with the compulsory deferment period. July 20. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.34 per US$1. 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE July 28. Access to the "futures market" was granted for all imports that by April 1, 1965 had complied with the compulsory deferment period. July 31. Hotels were permitted to accept foreign exchange in pay- ment of travelers' normal hotel charges. Certain hotels in remote areas were permitted to accept foreign exchange for other purposes as well. July 31. All outward remittances to shipping or airline companies for passages and tickets had to be made through banks. July 31. Exchange for travel to Bolivia, Brazil, Peru, and Uruguay was only granted in the form of payment orders. August 12. Exchange for travel to Colombia, Ecuador, and Para- guay was only granted in the form of payment orders. August 20. A consolidation of existing regulations and procedures affec t ing export transactions was issued. August 31. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.39 per US$1. September 8. With the exception of items subject to an advance deposit of 10,000 per cent, household goods belonging to returning Chileans or resident foreigners were exempted f rom advance deposit requirements. September 14- A consolidation of existing regulations and procedures affecting exchange transactions was issued. September 15. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.43 per US$1. September 16. Access to the "futures market" was granted for all imports that had complied with the compulsory payments deferment period of 120 days, provided that a customs clearance certificate could be submitted. September 22. A multilateral clearing agreement was signed by the central banks of Argentina, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. October 9. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.50 per US$1. October 19. Exporters of onions and melons on a consignment basis were required to guarantee the surrender of exchange corresponding to at least 75 per cent of the registered export value. October 27. The exchange proceeds f rom exports of iron ore had to be surrendered w i th in 180 days of shipment. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE November 18. The conversion rate for the calculation of import sur- charges and advance deposits was established at E ° 3.54 per US$1. December 10. Decree No. 2802 of the Ministry of Finance revised the import surcharges and advance deposit requirements for many commodities. December 10. Central Bank Circular No. 590 established that for specified commodities registered a f ter December 10, 1965 importers must, within 60 days after shipment, purchase exchange in the "futures market" corresponding to the f u ll registration value against im- mediate cash payment in local currency; the compulsory payments deferment period of 120 days af ter shipment continued to be appli- cable. The submission of a customs clearance certificate to a com- mercial bank was no longer required for such purchases of exchange. Importers of all other commodities were permitted to purchase exchange in the "futures market" within 60 days af ter shipment. December 16. The conversion rate for the calculation of import surcharges and advance deposits was established at E° 3.55 per US$1. December 20. Circular No. 758 of the Superintendent of Banks changed the official value of the escudo f rom E ° 3.10 to E ° 3.46 per US$1. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Exchange Rate System No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar has been established with the Fund. The o f f ic ial buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$40 and NT$40.10, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially fixed.1 Currencies for which rates are not off ic ia l ly fixed are accepted by appointed banks, and the rates are calculated in accordance with the foreign market quotations. With certain exceptions, earners of fore ign exchange must sell it at these rates to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies concerning fo re ign exchange and trade controls. The Foreign Exchange and Trade Com- mission (FETC) is the executive agency concerned with fo re ign exchange and trade matters. The func t ions of the FETC are to formu la te policies and p lans on fo re ign exchange and fore ign t rade; to screen and approve the use of fo re ign exchange ( in c lud ing the issuance of exchange and trade l icen se s ); to coordinate the use of U.S. a id; to determine the o f f ic ial buy ing and se l l ing rates of exchange; to act as a coordinating agency among var ious authorities in connection with fore ign exchange and trade transac t ions; and to deal with other relevant matters pursuant to orders of the Executive Yuan. Decisions of the FETC are implemented through the appropr ia te organizations and appointed banks. Exchange and trade licensing is administered by several committees in accordance with the na ture of the applica- tions. These committees re fer applications for import licenses to the FETC only in exceptional cases. The Central Bank of China is responsible for the over-all manage- ment of fore ign exchange and the supervision of the appointed banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Bank of Taiwan issues import and export licenses on instructions f rom the FETC; however, licenses for imports under U.S. AID Commercial Procurements are issued by the Bank of China. 1 In terms of new Taiwan dollars, the buying and selling rates, respectively, are as follows: Australian pound 1 = 89.60, 89.83; Canadian dollar 1 = 37.00, 37.10; deutsche mark 1 = 10.00, 10.03; French f ranc 1 = 8.10, 8.13; Hong Kong dollar 1 = 7.00, 7.02; Italian lire 10,000 = 640.00, 641.60; Malayan dollar 1 = 13.06, 13.10; and pound sterling 1 = 112.00,112.28. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in -Australian pounds, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Malayan dollars, pounds sterling, or U.S. dollars. Also, these are the foreign currencies that may be used by residents of other countries to finance investments in the Republic of China. Settlements with Spain are made in U.S. dollars through a bilateral account. The currency and method for mak ing payments to residents of foreign countries other than Spain are not prescribed. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, persons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially d i f fe rent f rom that accorded to residents of the Repub l ic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are sub ject to the same regulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of fore ign countries. Residents may ma in ta in accounts in fore ign currencies. These accounts —designated Foreign Currency Deposits —may be used for making authorized paymen ts abroad. They are of two categories: (1) Foreign Currency Deposits ma in ta ined by government organizations, insurance and transportation companies, and private productive enter- prises. These cover exchange either earned by account holders or directly allocated by the exchange authorities on the basis of indi- v idual permits. (2) Foreign Currency Deposits maintained by indi- viduals. These are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and personal passbook accounts (wh ich do not bear interest). Balances on these accounts originate f rom exchange obtained by account holders prior to their arr ival in the Repub l ic of China or f rom earnings and other receipts f rom their pr iva te resources outside the Republic. Imports and Import Payments All imports require ind iv idual licenses. When app ly ing for a license to import goods in excess of US$500, the importer must submit evi- dence that he has acquired "patriotic bond s7 72 corresponding to at least 2 "NT$500 million patriotic bonds of 1966," repayable in 20 semiannual install- ments beginning on January 3,1968. 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA NT$1 for every U.S. do l lar of the f .o .b. value of the goods; exempt f rom th i& requirement are educational equipment, a i rc ra ft parts, and mach inery and equipment financed with se lf-prov ided exchange. Full exchange settlement for imports must be made w i th in 14 days of approval of the license. Imports f rom communist countries are pro- hibited. The Chinese authorities license and check imports f rom Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain certain imports direct f rom the coun try of production and to control effec t ive ly imports f rom Ma in land Ch ina. Imports are divided into three groups: (1) proh ib i ted, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The proh ib i ted imports comprise not only narcotics and some other goods usua l ly excluded by most countries f rom importa- tion but also a number of luxury goods and less essential items, such as certain luxury Chinese foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquors, jewe l ry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its substitutes), and molasses. Liquor and cigarettes are imported f rom time to time by the government monopoly organ iza t ions responsible for se l l ing these commodities. The controlled list contains three types of goods: some luxury i tems; certain goods that are also produced locally of good quality and in sufficient quantity to meet domestic demand and whose fac to ry prices are not more than 15 per cent higher than the c . i . f. prices of comparab le imported goods; and goods sub ject to regu la t ion and a l loca t ion. The first two types are licensed restrictively; goods of the third type are o f t en imported by government agencies, wh ich o f fer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Imports on the permissible list are licensed liberally. According to the intended u t i l iza t ion, goods may be imported by one of four main groups of importers: government t rad ing agencies, regis- tered private traders, registered pr iva te traders on a commission basis, and end-users and m anu f a c tu r e r s. The Central Trust of Ch ina is the main government t rad ing agency. It hand les imports financed with U.S. aid funds-, and imports for government and m i l i ta ry organ iza t ions, public enterprises, and other customers. Another government t rad ing agency is the Taiwan Supply Bu reau, wh ich is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Government, cooperatives, teachers' or- ganizations, etc. Firms that wish to operate as au thor ized ("registered") importers must ob ta in app roval ("registration") f r om the FETC and be registered by the Taiwan Provincial Department of Recons t ruc t ion; the firms must be operating in acco rdance with certain laws and have a m in imum capital of NT$200,000. Traders registered as operating on a commission basis may act only as agents for traders or fore ign suppliers. They also must be approved by the FETC. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA End-users and manufac turers are permitted to import raw materials, machinery, and replacement equipment needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing authorities take into account such criteria as production capacity and equipment. In processing applications for licenses to import capital equipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its priority from the point of view of the economic needs of the country. Imports to be used for processing or producing goods for export are automatically licensed (e.g., raw cotton, wool, wood for the production of p lywood). Private importers (i.e., importers other than government agencies and public enterprises) handle more than 70 per cent of the imports paid for with currencies provided f rom off ic ial exchange reserves. According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) imports for which exchange is allocated directly out of off ic ial exchange reserves, and (2) imports which are made without recourse to off ic ial exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U.S. aid program and (b) those paid for with self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign investors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self- provided exchange are those financed by importers out of their own foreign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating f rom exchange receipts exempted f rom the surrender requirement. With the exception of machinery and equipment imported by a productive enterprise for its own use, imports f rom all sources are subject to a defense surcharge equivalent to 20 per cent of the customs duty. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Payments for invisibles directly related to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved. The t rans fer of interest, profits, and earnings on authorized fore ign investments in the Republic of China may be made without restriction. Foreign exchange for payments for certain other invisibles is allo- cated only up to established limits or on a percentage basis. Foreign technicians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 70 per cent of their basic monthly salary (year-end bonus, profit sharing, overtime pay, and insurance payments are exc luded), but the maximum amount permitted for f am i ly ma in tenance is the equivalent of US$250 a month to Japan, US$400 to Europe, and US$500 to the United States; 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA remittances of larger amounts requ ire special approval. Employees of the Government or of educational institutions may remit to their dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Member- ship fees to foreign institutions and certain payments for news services, books, and magazines (personal subscriptions for reference purposes) are approved upon application. Receipts f rom local subscriptions to, and sales o f, imported newspapers and periodicals are remittable up to certain limits. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film ren tal may be transferred ab road; the remainder is to be used for local expenses and investment in the Republic of China. A maximum of US$2,400 a year is provided for tuition and living expenses during the first academic year of students studying abroad. Ind iv idual approval is required if their total tuition and expenses exceed the US$2,400 limit. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$300 a trip for any type of travel. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$500 a month is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fa res and tickets. Applications for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved as liberally as possible, account being taken of the merits of submitted applications. Persons leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$1,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and the equivalent of US$200 in fore ign currencies. Those travelers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the fore ign currency wh ich they registered upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licenses may be issued only for exports to non- communist countries. The re-exportation of imported goods is permitted a f ter they have been processed. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms. The export of a few foods tu f fs is restricted. There are also ceilings on the export of cotton textiles to Canada, Italy, the United Kingdom, and the United States. M in imum prices are established for exports of certain commodities. Manu fac tu re rs who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, a f ter export of the processed goods, re funded various charges imposed on such raw materials, namely, import duties, defense surtax on import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferen t ial treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA Exporters are required to surrender exchange earnings accruing f rom exports immediately a f ter their collection. When surrendering export- proceeds, "patriotic bonds" equivalent to NT$10 a basket must be purchased by exporters of bananas, and bonds equivalent to NT$50 a box by exporters of canned mushrooms. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$100 without providing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements, applicable to proceeds f rom invis- ibles are the same as those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors outside the country, and originally approved by the FETC, must be surrendered to the banks, but earnings f rom private investments abroad that have not been financed by outward remittance may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for making authorized payments. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$1,000 for each traveler; a license from the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by foreigners may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currencies to the Republic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, liberally revised in 1959, and the Statute for Encouragement of Investment, enacted in 1960 and revised in 1965, new foreign invest- ments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unrestricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, two years a f ter completion of the investment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the originally invested f u n d s; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original f o rm; (4) favorab le treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immunity f rom expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment consti- tutes at least 51 per cent, of the total investment. In addition, foreign 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA investments are granted the same treatment accorded to new domestic investments. Laws for the encouragement of fore ign investments pro- vide for add i t ional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, investments by foreign nationals must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, communications, and manu fac tu r ing for domestic needs. P re fe rence is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. Foreign investors who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under foreign invest- ment laws, as described above, must obtain approval f rom the Ministry of Economic A f fa i r s. Purchases and sales of stocks by foreign investors must be made through the intermediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Division of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, investments may be made outside the Repub l ic of China only in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, and locally manu fac tu red equipment. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and persons who had settled in the Repub l ic of China and wish to return to their native countries, are not accorded any special t ran s fer fac i l i t ies in respect of proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of their assets in the Republic. Persons outside the Repub l ic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan do l lars on account of dowries, inher i tances, g i f ts, etc., are not no rma l ly granted the right of t r a n s f e r r i ng them f rom the Republic. Changes during 1965 Du r ing the year, a number of commodities were sh if ted f rom the controlled to the permissible list of imports, or vice versa. January 4- The Statute for Encouragement of Investment was amended. January 16. The max imum export commission payable to foreign agents was increased f rom 3 per cent to 5 per cent of the f .o .b. value of exported goods. July 3. Importers and exporters of specified commodities were required to purchase specified amounts of "NT$500 million patriotic bonds of 1966" denominated in Taiwan do l lars; the bonds were negotiable, could be used as collateral for loans, and were repayable in 20 semiannual installments beginning on January 3, 1968. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA July SO. A f ree trade zone for export processing purposes was estab- lished at Kaohsiung. September 6. Off ic ial buying and selling rates were established for Australian pounds and Canadian dollars, and export proceeds could be received in these currencies. October 6. With minor exceptions, exports to any permitted destina- tion could be made on a consignment or delayed collection basis, provided that payment was not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. October 28. Tourist hotels were permitted to remit commissions of up to 10 per cent to fore ign travel agencies; previously, no exchange was granted for such remittances. November 1. The import of rayon and polyester staple used for the manu fac tu re of textiles for the domestic market was suspended until March 31,1966. 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par value for the Colombian Peso was established by Colombia with the Fund. However, exchange trans- actions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange markets, an official market with several fixed rates and a f ree market with a fluctuating rate. Exchange certificates must be purchased f rom the Bank of the Republic to make payments through the o f f ic ial market. The off ic ial market comprises (1) a rate of Col$7.67 per US$1 for sales of fore ign exchange by foreign petroleum companies; (2) a rate of Col$8.50 per US$1 for proceeds f rom coffee exports; (3) a p re fe ren t ial market rate of Col$9.00 per US$1; and (4) an intermediate market rate of Col$13.50 per US$1. The p re fe ren t ial market ra te applies on the buy ing side to the pro- ceeds f rom exports of m anu f a c tu r ed products w i th an import com- ponent paid at the p re fe ren t ial rate exceeding 50 per cent of the f .o .b. value of the exports; it applies on the se l l ing side to certain imports, certain students' expenses, and specified payments by the National Government. The intermediate market rate applies on the buying side to the proceeds f rom other exports, to capital registered as entering through the intermediate market, and to fore ign loans the proceeds of wh ich must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. This rate applies on the selling side to other imports, 80 per cent of certain f re ight payments, service on new fore ign debt, service on old foreign debt covered by special provisions, and repa tr ia t ion and profits on new capital registered as entering through the intermediate market. There is a remittance tax of 10 per cent (wh ich has to be paid in U.S. dollars f rom the f ree ma rke t) on payments of interest on, and repayments of, capital registered be fo re June 17, 1957, if such payments are made through the official market. All other transactions take place in a free ma rke t; at the end of 1965 the rate in the f ree market was Col$18.27 buying, and Col$18.29 selling, per US$1. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control To import f rom, export to, or make payments to fo re ign countries, prior application for registration of the transac t ion must be made at the Exchange Registration Division of the Superintendency of Foreign Trade. Exchange cer t if ica tes for payments entitled to be made through the o f f ic ial market must be purchased at the Bank of the Republic and may be acquired through the commercial banks, which act as authorized agents of the Bank of the Republic. App l ica t ions for such 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA certificates require the prior approval of the Exchange Registration Division. An Exchange Regulation Fund, operated by the Mone tary Board, regulates operations in the off ic ial exchange market. Over-all import and export policy is determined by the Board of Foreign Trade. The Superintendency of Foreign Trade controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. Imports and exports of fo re ign cap i tal and the t ran s fer of profits thereon, in c lud ing commissions and royalties for trademarks and patents, must be recorded at the Exchange Registration Division. The Division is also in charge of the registration of the fore ign debt. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to in terna t ional transactions are normally effected in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Denmark, Finland, and Spain for commercial transactions must be made through a clearing account in accordance with the provisions of the relevant b i la te ral payments agreement. Under the agreement w i th Denma rk, goods or ig ina t ing in third countries and purchased in one of the agree- ment countries may be settled th rough the agreement account by mu tual consent of the par tners. The Na t ional Federation of Coffee Growers has concluded trade and paymen ts agreements with Bu lga r ia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, R um a n i a, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to hold accounts in Colombia. There are no special nonresident accounts. Imports and Import Payments For purposes of import licensing, imports are classified as fo l low s: goods whose import is p roh ib i ted; goods whose import is sub ject to prior l icens ing by the Super in tendency of Foreign T rade; and goods that may be imported f ree ly. For purposes of ind ica t ing the exchange rate app l icab le, there are two import lists that are revised f rom time to time by the Board of Foreign Trade; one contains the goods payab le at the p r e f e r e n t i al ra te, and the other those payab le at the intermediate rate. Once commodities are on the latter list they cannot be sh i f ted to the fo rme r. Certain imports are l ibe ra l ized when paid for at the intermediate market ra te but require an import license when paid for at the p re fe ren t ial market rate. Prior registration of the import transac t ion at the Exchange Registration Division is requ ired for all imports; the charge for import registration fo rms is Col$5.00 for imports valued at less than 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA US$20.00 and Col$100.00 for other imports. Advance import deposits are required for all commodities. Imports of capital goods by the National Government and by regional or municipal governments are subject to a nom inal advance deposit of Col$1.00. Beginning on October 1, 1965, the rates of advance deposit listed below have been reduced once a month by 5 per cent for the commodities on the inter- mediate market l is t; they would thus be eliminated over a 20-month period. An advance deposit of 1 per cent is required for the fo l low ing: capital goods and spare parts imported by off ic ial agencies and pub l ic service agencies for their own use; equipment f or the pr in t ing indus try; capital goods and spare parts not destined for resale; capital goods intended for the establishment of d ie - fo rg ing works; raw materials and basic foods tu f fs brought into the country by the National Institute of Health for the prepara t ion of pha rmaceu t ical products; raw materials for tires; imports under c lear ing agreements concluded for the fo re ign marke t ing of coal and products of Acerias Paz del Rio S.A., subject to the exchange and t rade regu la t ions; food s tu f fs imported by the Na t ional Institute of Supply, w i th the approval of the competent ministry, for Colombia's normal needs; imports exempt f rom advance deposits under laws, decrees, or resolutions in e f fect be fo re the coming into fo rce of Law No. 1 of 1959, provided that they comply with the regulations and are authorized by the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; sacramental wine imported by the dioceses in quantities con- sidered reasonab le by the Bank of the Repub l ic; imports of books, newspapers, and magaz ines of a scientific or literary na tu re which will contribute to the cu l ture or entertainment of the Colombian people; and a few other items. Other advance deposits required as a prerequisite to import registration are as fo l low s: 5 per cent for certain machinery and equipment for basic industries and for capital goods valued at over US$250,000 f .o .b. for which payments are spread over several years; 10 per cent for paper, cryolite, z inc ore and concentrates, a lum inum fluoride, certain lighting equipment, agr icu l tural machinery and apparatus, chassis for jeeps, and seagoing sh ips; 30 per cent for certain types of sheep, goats, pou l try, trees, shrubs, plants, wheat, oats, barley, oleaginous f ru i ts, fish oil, fodder concentrates, certain ores, and raw materials f or the production of pharmaceu t ica ls; 60 per cent for church o rgans; 65 per cent for certain raw materials, some chemicals, and metal tools; 90 per cent for certain metals and metal produc ts; 500 per cent for gold co ins; and 120 per cent for all other goods. These advance deposits are not required (1) on imports from LAFTA countries of goods included in Colombia's National List or in the special concession lists for Paraguay and Ecuador, or (2) on 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA imports under the "Vallejo P l an . "x The advance deposit must be placed with the Bank of the Republic before the application for regis- tration of the import transaction is submitted to the Exchange Registration Division; it is returned 90 days after the merchandise is cleared through customs. Advance deposits are calculated on the f.o.b. value; the conversion rate is Col$9.00 per US$1. Prior exchange registration is required for all payments for imports; registration is granted in f.o.b. terms upon approval by the Exchange Registration Division of the importer's application for the correspond- ing exchange certificates. Applications are not approved unless evidence is submitted that the goods have been cleared through customs and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for exchange certificates, the importer must provide a peso advance deposit equivalent to at least 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at the rate of Col$9.00 per US$1. Import payments before the maturity date of the exporter's claim are not authorized, except for off ic ial imports. O f f ic ial imports are exempt f rom the 95 per cent deposit requirement. Importers, or commercial banks acting for them, may buy exchange certificates covering the value of their imports f rom the Bank of the Republic. Potatoes, wheat, spelt, maslin, and flours made thereof, rice, barley, corn, wheat groats, and some legumes and vegetables may be imported only by the National Institute of Supply. Payments for Invisibles The fo l low ing payments for invisibles are channeled through the off ic ial ma rke t: (1) At the preferential rate, expenses of students engaged in studies abroad at the university level that are not avail- able in Colombia; government payments for diplomatic expenses; government payments for contractual obligations entered into before September 2, 1965; and government, depar tmen ta l, and municipal debt service payments, provided that the unde r ly ing receipts were not brought in at the intermediate or free market rates. (2) At the inter- mediate rate, 80 per cent of fre igh ts on imports financed with official exchange and carried by national or foreign ships belonging to a shipping con fe rence; debt service payments on new fore ign loans brought in a f ter September 2, 1965; debt service payments on capital registered prior to June 17, 1957; profits on capital registered prior 1 These are nonreimbursable imports (goods imported without the use of official exchange) made in accordance w i th Articles 55-60 of Law No. 1 of 1959. The "Vallejo Plan" provides that certain types of goods can be imported free of license, advance deposits, and import du ty, provided that they are financed by foreign suppliers and that they are used to produce manufac tured goods for export. 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA to June 17, 1957; profits on capital brought in a f ter September 2, 1965 and registered as eligible for in termed ia te market t rea tmen t; service payments on debts contracted be fo re October 25, 1964 and registered at the intermediate market ra te; service payments on that part of o f f ic ial debt contracted be fo re September 2, 1965 that cor- responds to receipts brought in at the intermediate rate. Exchange certificates are granted for the payments listed above. All other payments for invisibles must be made through the f ree market. Exports and Export Proceeds Prior app l ica t ion for registration is required for all exports except crude oil. If the application meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the app l ica t ion fo rm, i.e., registration is granted. When registering'an export transac t ion, the exporter must provide a guarantee in pesos correspond ing to the f u ll export va lue to ensure that the proceeds w i ll be surrendered to the Bank of the Repub l ic. Except for manu fac tu red products with an imported raw material component in excess of 50 per cen t, th is gua ran tee may, at the exporter's op t ion, be a bank or personal gua ran tee accompanied by a cash deposit, or a personal guaran tee w i thout such deposit. For co f fee, the proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 10 days a f t er registration if the shipping docu- ments are made out in the in ter ior of Colombia, or w i th in 10 days a f ter the date of the b i ll of lad ing in respect of shipment by sea; these regu la t ions do not apply to exports made by the Na t ional Coffee Federation, wh ich may keep stocks abroad for sale and make deposits in banks abroad in the in te r im be fo re sale. Exporters of bananas must surrender 60 per cent of the ir proceeds w i th in 10 days of the issuance of the export license and the rema in ing 40 per cent w i th in 60 days. Receipts f rom other exports have to be surrendered within 90 days a f ter registration. Exporters of products other than coffee may retain 10 per cent of the ir exchange proceeds to repay fo r e ign debt contracted prior to June 30, 1965. Exporters of manu fac tu red products with a nonreim- bursab le import component imported in acco rdance with the provisions of Articles 55-60 of Law No. 1 of 1959 may retain pa rt of their exchange earn ings to repay their fo re ign suppliers ( "Va l le jo Plan," see foot- note 1). All other exchange proceeds f rom exports, except those f rom the exports of crude oil by fore ign-owned oil companies, must be surrendered. The exchange proceeds f rom exports of coffee must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic at the buy ing rate of Col$8.50 per US$1 fixed by the Monetary Board. Exports of coffee are subject to a m in imum surrender price (reintegro) presently fixed at US$71.50 per 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA 70-kilogram bag; the surrender price for bananas and other products varies according to the quantity exported and the price that the exporter may obtain in accordance with world market conditions. When the surrender price is higher than the f.o.b. export price, exporters have to purchase fore ign exchange to f u l f i ll the surrender requirement. This exchange may be purchased in the f ree market. Further, coffee exporters are required, prior to registration, to sur- render in kind to the National Coffee Fund the equivalent of approxi- mately 16 per cent of the volume of co f fee exported (retention). Manu fac tu red export products in which imported materials or ele- ments are used are subject to the fo l low ing system: when the value of the imported raw material component paid at the preferen t ial rate is less than 50 per cent of the export value, the buying rate for the foreign exchange proceeds of the export is the intermediate market rate; when it exceeds 50 per cent, the foreign exchange proceeds of the export must be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the preferen t ial rate, i.e., Col$9.00 per US$1. Exchange proceeds from all other exports are surrendered at the intermediate rate, i.e., Col$13.50 per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained or negotiated in the free market. Capital Capital imported for the activities of the petroleum industry, including activities in the field of petrochemicals, must be registered with the Exchange Registration Division. When such capital is imported for exploration and exploitation of petroleum or to pay for related services, the foreign exchange must be sold to the Bank of the Republic at the rate of Col.$7.67 per US$1. Foreign capital invested in the petroleum industry and net profits on such capital are remitted according to special laws and contracts. For other industries, there is at present a dual system. Capital may be brought in through the f ree market, in wh ich case all amortiza- tion and profit remittances must be made through the same market. Capital may also be brought in through the intermediate market. In this case, repatriation may be made through the intermediate market, but not earlier than five years a f t er the capital was brought into the country, and profit remittances must not exceed 8 per cent of the total investment annu a l ly. Capital registered prior to June 17, 1957 may be repatriated th rough the intermediate marke t; profit remittances on such capital are also made through that market. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA All foreign capital must be recorded at the Exchange Registration Division of the Superintendency of Foreign Trade; the import and repayment of such capital must be recorded as well as the t rans fer of profits thereon, inc lud ing commissions and royalties relating to trademarks and patents. Capital imported through the intermediate market must, in addition, be specially registered with the above- mentioned Division. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1965) (pesos per U.S. dollar) Buying 7.672 (Fixed Rate) Exchange sales by petroleum compa- nies for exploration and exploitation. 8.50 (Fixed Rate) Exports of coffee. 9.00 (Preferential Market Rate) Exports of manufac tured products with an import component exceeding 50 per cent paid for at the preferential rate. 13.50 (Intermediate Market Rate) All other exports except those of crude oil by foreign-owned petroleum com- panies.5 Capital inflow electing inter- mediate market registration. Exchange receipts of local authorities and public agencies, including those from foreign loans. 18.27 (Free Market Rate) Invisibles. Other capital. Selling 9.002 3 (Preferential Market Rate) Certain imports. Certain paymen ts by the Na t ional Governmen t. Certain stu- dents' expenses. 10.832 (Preferential Rate plus 10% Remittance Tax)* Principal and interest on official ex- ternal debt registered be fo re June 17, 1957. Repatriation of and service on foreign capital registered before that date. 13.50 2i 3 (Intermediate Market Rate) Other imports. Eighty per cent of import fre ight payments on merchandise transported by conference ships. Service on new fore ign debt. Service on old fore ign debt registered under special provisions. Repatriation and profits on new foreign capital electing intermedi- ate market registration. 18.29 (Free Market Rate} O ther invisibles and capital. Changes during 1965 January 1. The b i la teral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was terminated. 2 The banks may charge a commission of not more than Col$0.05 per US$1. 8 Certain commodities require an import license when imported at the prefer- ential rate but are liberalized when impor ted at the in te rmed ia te ma rket rate. *The remittance tax is payable in U.S. dollars purchased in the f ree ma rke t. 5 These need not be surrendered. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA January 1. The Foreign Trade Council published new lists of pro- hibited imports and of imports subject to license. January 20. The advance import deposit requirements were announced for those tar iff items of the new customs tar iff for wh ich they had not been published on December 23,1964. February 2. Regulations were issued that would apply to imports f rom LAFTA countries of commodities on which Colombia had granted concessions. February 15. The m in imum surrender price for exports of coffee was reduced f rom US$73.00 to US$71.50 per 70-kilogram bag. March 10. The o f f ic ial buy ing rate for proceeds from coffee exports and for the exchange sold by petroleum companies was depreciated f rom Col$7.30 to Col$7.67 per US$1. March 12. The quantity of coffee that exporters were required to surrender in kind to the National Coffee Fund was increased from 5 per cent to 8 per cent of the volume of coffee exported. March 20. The Colombian petroleum company ECOPETROL could purchase exchange for imports of crude oil at the "auction" rate of Col$9.00 per US$1. March 24- Further items were added to the list of commodities sub- ject to import license. May 5. All imports, including those f rom LAFTA countries, required a license. May 19. The m in imum surrender price for exports of coffee was reduced f rom US$71.50 to US$70.00 per 70-kilogram bag. May 31. The number of "auctions" for exchange certificates was reduced f rom one a week to two a month. June 14- General regulations were issued for the treatment of import applications for mach ine ry' and equipment for agriculture and for the mining, construction, transport, communications, and m anu f a c tu r- ing industries. June 29. All existing regulations pertaining to the surrender of exchange proceeds f rom minor exports were revoked. Hence fo r th, such exchange proceeds had to be sold to the Bank of the Republic in amounts and at rates of exchange to be fixed f rom time to time by the Monetary Board. June SO. The rate at wh ich the Bank of the Republic converted the exchange proceeds f rom exports other than coffee was fixed at Col$13.50 per US$1. For exports of manu fac tu red products, an amount equal to the value of the imported raw material incorporated in the 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA goods could be deducted f rom the total amount of exchange to be surrendered to the Bank of the Repub l ic, provided that the raw material was imported without exchange certificates and with the approval of the Superintendency of Foreign Trade under Law No. 1 of 1959 ( "V a l l e j oP l a n " ). July 7. The exchange proceeds f rom exports other than coffee and bananas had to be surrendered w i th in 90 days a f ter export registration. The peso deposit required in guarantee of the surrender of the exchange proceeds was raised to 100 per cent of the export value. July 7. All imports and exports of fore ign capital and all remit- tances of interest and profits on such capital had to be recorded with the Superintendency of Foreign Trade. July 14- Exporters could retain up to 10 per cent of the exchange proceeds f rom exports other than coffee to repay registered debts incurred abroad in connection with their export activities. They could also deduct an amount to pay for equipment imported in conformity with Law No. 1 of 1959. Exchange proceeds f r om exports of m a n u f a c t u r ed products with an import component exceeding 50 per cent had to be converted at the rate of Col$9.00 per US$1; proceeds f rom exports with a smaller import component were converted at Col$13.50 per US$1. July 14- Imports of equipment for the p r in t ing industry became subject to an advance deposit of 1 per cent. July 15. Debts contracted abroad had to be registered with the Exchange Registration Division of the Superintendency of Foreign Trade. August 13. A b i la teral paymen ts agreement with Bu lgar ia was signed. August 30. Fur ther items were added to the list of commodities subject to import license. September 2. The s truc ture of the o f f ic ial exchange market was modified. The Bank of the Repub l ic sold fo re ign exchange at a p re fe ren t ial market rate of Col$9.00 per US$1 and at an intermediate market rate of Col$13.50 per US$1. The d is tr ibu t ion of imports, speci- fied cap i tal transac t ions, and some invisibles between the two rates would be announced. Exchange proceeds f rom exports other than coffee, f rom registered fo re ign investment, and f rom fo re ign loans would be bought at the in termed ia te rate. Foreign capital could be brought in either at the f ree market ra te or at the intermediate market ra te; in the latter case, repa tr ia t ion and prof it remittances could also be made at the intermediate market rate. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA September 6. The o f f ic ial buying rate for the proceeds of coffee exports was depreciated f rom Col$7.67 to Col$8.50 per US$1. The quantity of coffee that had to be surrendered in kind to the National Coffee Fund was increased f rom 8 per cent to 16 per cent of the volume of coffee exported. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was raised f rom US$70.00 to US$71.50 per 70-kilogram bag. September 7. The Board of Foreign Trade issued a list of imports for which exchange would be granted at the preferen t ial rate of exchange. The list inc luded some foods tu f fs, chem ica ls ,, pharma- ceuticals, and pub l ic transportation vehicles. September 8. The Board of Foreign Trade issued a list of imports that could be imported f ree of license, if paid for at the intermediate rate of exchange; some items on this list could also be imported at the p re fe ren t ial rate, if an import license was obtained. September 8. The "auction" system for the sale of off ic ial exchange was abolished. The Bank of the Repub l ic announced that it would sell exchange certificates at the intermediate and preferen t ial market rates dur ing its regu lar office hours. September 22. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement was signed by the central banks of Argentina, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. October 1. Advance import deposits for commodities that could only be imported at the intermediate rate of exchange were reduced by 5 per cent of the rates in f o r c e; fu r ther reductions by 5 per cent f rom the rates on September 30 wou ld take place every month until their complete elimination. November 11. The Board of Foreign Trade issued a second list of imports that did not requ ire a license if paid for at the intermediate rate of exchange. December 1. Exporters could retain part of their foreign exchange proceeds f rom exports for payments for certain capital goods intended for the production of exports and covered by nonre imbursab le import licenses. December 7. A 60 per cent advance deposit requirement was intro- du c ed; it was applied to imports of church organs. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE)1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Congo (B razzav i l le) has been established with the Fund. The o f f ic ial unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f r a n c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 The BCEAEC stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f rancs against French f rancs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r a n c. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris market rates for the other currencies concerned, and inc lude a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Off ice. The Ministry of Economic A f f a i rs allots to each importer exchange for goods included in the annual import p rog ram; it also issues import and export licenses; the fo rmer require the consent of the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Congo (B razzav i l le) is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; settlements with countries with wh ich Congo (B razzav i l le) maintains b i la teral payments agreements,3 however, are made through special accounts in accordance with the terms of those agreements. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. 1In view of a development that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 The CFA franc circulating in Congo (Brazzav i l le) is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. 3 These countries are Ma in land China and Mali. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All imports of Portuguese origin are prohibited. Imports from all other countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of fore ign exchange required to implement it are determined by a joint French-Congolese Committee. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries (other than France) and for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for the other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area, including those in the Sino-Soviet bloc. Licenses for liberalized commodities originating in EEC countries other than France are issued automatically; such liberalized imports are not included in the quotas for EEC countries. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs publishes each year an announcement of the exchange allotted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Ministry an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Import licenses are valid for one year, and no extensions are granted except for specially manu fac tu red goods when evidence is presented concerning the delay in manufac ture. Imports of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a certain quantity of the local product. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses are granted for imports of goods to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange O f f ice; however, all payments by Portuguese nationals or by companies controlled by Portuguese nationals are subject to special presidential approval. For the following categories, authorized banks may sell foreign exchange without prior authorization from the Exchange O f f ice: (1) for travel, up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip, except to 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Portuguese nationals; (2) for study and living expenses connected therewith, upon presentation of supporting documents f rom the educa- tional institution attended by the student; and (3) for fam i ly mainte- nance, upon presentation of supporting documents. In addition, the Exchange Office authorizes the sale of foreign exchange freely for the fo l low ing: payments for patent rights, royalties, trademarks, licenses, etc.; the net amount of salaries received by foreigners employed in Congo (B r a z z av i l l e ); expenditures and earnings of foreign govern- ments; and medical expenses and living expenses abroad for reasons of health. Travelers to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes. Travelers to other destinations may take out up to CFAF 75,000 in CFA banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take' out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of cotton and minerals, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all destina- tions of coffee, cacao, palm oil, groundnuts, bananas, cotton, and minerals are subject to individual license. All other exports are free of individual license. For exports to countries outside the French Franc Area the exporter must sign an exchange commitment (engage- ment de change). Proceeds of exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be retained by the exporter. Proceeds of exports to other countries must be surrendered within one month f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain 10 per cent of their export proceeds in special, non t rans fe rab le EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for export promotion expenses and for modernization and expansion needs of their industries. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected and must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or foreign banknotes or coins (except gold co ins). 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) Capital Capital movements between Congo (B razzav i l le) and other countries of the French Franc Area are f ree of control; those between Congo (Brazzaville) and all other countries are subject to authorization. Under the Investment Code of June 1961, as amended on Decem- ber 29, 1962, any enterprise established in Congo (B razzav i l le ), whether domestic or fore ign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports as well as exemption f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of p re fe ren t ial treat- ment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expan- sion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Congo (B r a z z a v i l l e ); it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B razza- ville) , and Gabon ). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it pro- vides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 20 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of p re fe ren t ial treatment auto- matically includes the application of specified exemptions f rom direct taxes which are granted under the provisions of the ordinary law (see above ). Requests for approval for preferen t ial treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and P lann ing, who, a f ter examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. A f t er an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferen t ial treatment A is granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferen t ial treatment B is granted by an act of the Executive Committee of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment C requires legislation. Controls over foreign investments in Congo (B razzav i l le) are administered along the lines established by exchange control regula- tions in France. The t rans fer of profits f rom, as well as the proceeds f rom the liquidation of, registered fore ign investment is permitted free ly. How- ever, Portuguese nationals and companies controlled by Portuguese nationals require the authorization of the President of Congo (B razza- 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE) ville) to make financial transfers ab road; Portuguese nationals are upon request given permission to make such t rans fe rs to Portugal. Changes during 1965 March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Rumania, which was also applicable to Congo (B r a z z av i l l e ), was terminated. March 15. Licenses were required for the export to countries of the French Franc Area of cotton and minerals, and the export to countries outside the French Franc Area of coffee, cacao, palm oil, groundnuts, bananas, and cotton. June 1. Imports of certain goods from EEC countries other than France were freed from quantitative restriction. August 16. All imports of Portuguese origin were prohibited. NOTE.—The following development took place early in 1966: January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon) entered into effect. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Democratic Republic of Congo has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial unit of currency is the Congo f r a n c. The off ic ial buying rate is CF 150 = US$1 and applies to all exchange proceeds; the off ic ial selling rate is CF 180 = US$1 and applies to all exchange payments. The buy ing and selling rates for other currencies are fixed on the basis of off ic ial cross rates between each of those currencies and the U.S. do l lar. Forward exchange transactions are prohibited. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered principally by the National Bank of Congo, wh ich is responsible for global allocations of foreign exchange for payments for imports and invisibles. The General Manager of the National Bank acts also as Foreign Exchange Controller and in this capacity is directly responsible to the Prime Minister for the broad formu la t ion and control of exchange programs. The Bureau of Economic Coordination in the Prime Minister's office, together with the Office of Supply (Office d'Approvisionnement) in the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs, is responsible for the determination of more detailed priorities for imports and the allocation of import quotas to recognized importers. On the basis of decisions reached by the above- mentioned agencies, combined import licenses and authorizations for payments for imports are issued by the Licensing Office, and authorizations for payments for invisibles are issued by the Exchange Office. Both these offices are an integral part of the National Bank. An Exchange Commission, composed of representatives of the economic ministries and of the National Bank, deals with contraven- tions of exchange control regulations. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency regulations. The Democratic Republic of Congo is not a party to any b i la teral payments agreements. Nonresident Accounts There are three categories of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Accounts in Congo Francs, Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. 1. Nonresident Accounts in Congo Francs. These accounts may be freely debited for and credited w i th settlements in the Democratic Republic. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO 2. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts. Nonresident nationals require special authorization from the National Bank to open these accounts with authorized banks; nonresident foreigners may open them freely. All Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited f ree ly; they may be debited f ree ly for transfers to other Resident and Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts and to accounts abroad. 3. Blocked Accounts. These accounts in Congo f rancs may be freely credited with funds owned by nonresidents; they may be debited without special au thor iza t ion for certain specified purposes. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are prohibited except between accounts held by the same ind iv idua l. Imports and Import Payments The import of a number of goods is prohibited. All imports are subject to individual licenses. The National Bank determines the total amount of foreign exchange to be made available for payments for imports in accordance with an exchange budget established for each fou r -mon th per iod; the budget distinguishes between imports financed by the Democratic Republic's own. resources and imports financed by fo re ign aid. Within these limits, the Office of Supply assigns quotas by commodity categories for imports financed out of the Democratic Republic's own resources, in accordance with priorities established by this Office and by the Bureau of Economic Coordination. The Office then allocates individual quotas to recognized importers, subject to the approval of the Bureau of Economic Coordination. Importers who have obtained an import quota must apply to the Licensing Office, through an authorized bank, for a combined import license and exchange au thor iza t ion. Importers do not require ind iv idual import quotas for a few specified products, such as petroleum products, salt, yeast, dried fish, and many types of meat, most of which are l ibera l ized. The commodity categories to be financed by foreign aid are determined in agreement with the donor countries. In addition, for enterprises deemed essential to the economy, a system of "exchange allocation agreements" is in fo rce, which gives limited but guaranteed access to the Democratic Republic's currency resources. Under this system, certain proportions of export proceeds (specified for individual exporting companies on the basis of agree- ments reached between each company and the National B a n k ), surrendered at the rate of CF 150 per US$1, are credited at the rate of CF 180 per US$1 to so-called Resident Foreign Currency Accounts. These accounts may be debited exclusively for payments for author- 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO ized categories of imports and invisibles to be effected directly by the account holder in connection with his own business activity. The imports concerned are not subject to import quota requirements, and the banks in which the Resident Foreign Currency Accounts are held obtain an import license on behalf of the account holder and make payments against the presentation of import documents. The proper use of exchange credited to Resident Foreign Currency Accounts is verified by the National Bank. Allocations of exchange ( for direct imports or for invisibles) may be granted under similar conditions to nonexporting producers and to service enterprises. Imports under this arrangement are not subject to quota requirements, but a combined import license and exchange authorization is required in accordance w i th the provisions of the respective exchange allocation agreements. An application for an import license must be accompanied by a specification of the merchandise to be imported, its unit price and country of origin, the transport and insurance charges connected with it, and the currency in which the payment is to be made. The combined import licenses and exchange authorizations that are granted are normally valid for four months. Within that period, importers must complete the importation and make the payment authorized. Banks are permitted to open letters of credit for importers to whom import licenses have been granted. The importers must for thw i th provide to the banks the countervalue in Congo f rancs, calculated at the rate of exchange for impor ts; however, by that action they are not relieved of any exchange risk involved. Payment to the fore ign exporter may not be made until the bank has received the invoice and the documents evidencing either the shipment to the Democratic Republic of the merchandise described in the import license, or its clearance through Congolese customs. For most consumer goods, a certificate of verification of the quan t i ty, the quality, and the country of origin of the merchandise, issued by a foreign correspondent of the Societe Congolaise de Surveillance, must be part of these documents. A similar licensing procedure applies to imports with "foreign financ- ing/' wh ich are allowed under certain conditions. These^ imports con- sist mainly of materials and equipment related to new investments, and of the requirements for institutions such as schools and charitable organizations. An import license is required, but there is no cor- responding payment au tho r iza t ion and no fore ign exchange is made available. The quota and licensing procedure, as well as the verification for- malities, apply as a rule to all private imports, including those financed 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO by foreign aid. However, for the latter, any provisions connected with the granting of the fore ign aid must also be observed. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is formu la ted by the Na t ional Bank. Normally, exchange is granted for items connected with trade. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals resident in the Democratic Republic of Congo are authorized, within certain limits. Travel abroad by fore igners must be entirely paid for with foreign exchange supplied by the traveler h imse l f, wh i le fa res for authorized travel by Congolese nationals may be paid in Congo f r a n c s; airline booking offices and travel agencies may, upon application, obtain foreign exchange cover to the extent that their receipts in Congo f rancs exceed one third of their total receipts f rom fa res for foreign travel. There are basic allocations for off ic ial and business travel and students' expenses abroad. Transfers for certain administra- tive expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and certain portions of insurance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. No exchange is made available for t rans fe rs of investment income. All payments for invisibles are subject to authorization by the Exchange Office. Provisions covering the invisibles listed above may be included in "exchange allocation agreements." In these cases, the exchange is made available in accordance with procedures similar to those described in the section on Imports and Import Payments, above. All travelers may take out Congolese banknotes up to CF 15,000 a trip. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license. Banks are normally authorized to extend such licenses to exporters who submit a declaration of .collection of exchange. Such declarations must specify the nature of the merchand ise to be exported, the price, and the currency in wh ich payment is to be received. Export licenses are norma l ly valid for three mon ths; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surrendered. However, under the system of "exchange allocation agreements" (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ), certain pro- portions of the export proceeds surrendered may be repurchased by the exporters concerned in accordance with the procedures described above. Exporters of agricultural products may use up to 25 per cent of repatriated export proceeds to settle payments for authorized imports and invisibles. "Exchange allocation agreements" with m in ing 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO companies provide for allocations ranging f rom 33 per cent to 38 per cent of their export proceeds surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. The import of Congolese banknotes is prohibited, except that travelers to the Democratic Republic may import such banknotes up to an amount not exceeding CF 15,000 a t r ip; additional local currency may be obtained by the sale of foreign currency at the official buying rate. No one on Congolese territory (whether national or foreigner) is allowed to hold foreign banknotes or other fore ign means of payment in amounts in excess of US$300 or its equivalent. Foreigners traveling to the Democratic Republic and carrying amounts in excess of this limit must deposit the excess amounts in an authorized bank within 48 hours of arrival on Congolese territory; they are allowed to recover them on departure. Nationals who leave the Democratic Republic and wish to export fore ign banknotes and fore ign means of payment in excess of US$300 or its equivalent must submit to the customs authorities an official certificate showing that the banknotes and other means of payment concerned have been acquired legally. Capital Capital transfers abroad, except some relating to the Government, are not authorized. Changes during 1965 January LA. list of prohibited imports was published. March 15. Price controls on imports were tightened. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is Costa Rican Colones 6.625 = US$1. The Central Bank buys exchange derived f rom exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed rate of 0 6.62 per US$1. Exchange may be purchased freely by the public in a market in which the Central Bank maintains the rate at 0 6.65 per US$1. Costa Rica has no exchange restrictions on current or capital payments. Costa Rica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 1,1965. Administration of Control The controls over export receipts are operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica. Purchases and sales of exchange are made through the Central Bank or through commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements. In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Costa Rica does not maintain any payments or clearing agree- ments with other countries. Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be made in Costa Rican colones through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles may also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clearinghouse, in accordance with the Agreement on Clearing and Reciprocal Credits between the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearing- house. Imports and import Payments There is no system of import licensing and all payments may be made freely. As part of the exchange re fo rm of 1961, certain less essential or luxury items were made subject to either a 15 per cent or a 30 per cent temporary import surcharge. However, as each successive Central American common external tar iff agreement enters into force, any surcharges on the agreed items are thereby eliminated. For Costa Rica, such tar iff equalization provisions now apply to 98 per cent of the items listed in the Central American un i fo rm import tar iff schedule. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA MCA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not controlled, and exchange may be purchased freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange to the market. Export licenses f rom the Central Bank are necessary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and the license is granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guarantee in this respect. In addition to the export license issued by the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as fo l lows: (1) strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals, require export licenses from the Ministry of Economy and Finance; (2) sugar requires an export license f rom the Ministry of Economy and Finance in order that shipments under the sugar quotas may be controlled; (3) lumber and root of ipecacuanha require export licenses from the Institute for Lands and Colonization; (4) beans, rice, potatoes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle require export licenses from the National Council of Production; (5) airplanes require export licenses from the Civil Aviation Boa rd; (6) Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay require export licenses from the National Museum; (7) tobacco requires an export license from the Tobacco Defense Boa rd; and (8) coffee requires a sales contract approved by the Coffee Off ice, in order to control exports under the coffee quotas, and an approval f rom a commercial bank stating that there are no liens on the coffee. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered. Foreign- owned banana companies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds calculated by deducting f rom their gross export proceeds (1) profits obtained dur ing the year f rom their transactions in Costa R ica; (2) a sum equivalent to the deprecia- tion on their investments in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made during the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on sugar and coffee. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles may be retained or sold free ly. Capital Transfers of capital may be made freely by residents and non- residents. The Organic Law of the Central Bank provides that foreign 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA MCA investments may be registered with the Central Bank and repatriation of the capital and income thereon assured. Changes during 1965 July 20. A Barter Trade Law was promulgated by Decree No. 3527. The law provided that barter transactions could be authorized, pro- vided that they involved commodities produced in Costa Rica and that in each transaction the value of the import did not exceed that of the export by more than 5 per cent of the total amount of the transaction. Regulations to implement the law would be issued within six months. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rate System The par value is Cyprus Pound 1 = US$2.80. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Cyprus pound is at par, and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1965 was US$2.80% buying, US$2.80 selling, per £C 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of Cyprus; trade controls, by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Certain authority to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange within the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank of Cyprus has been delegated to the authorized banks. Authority to introduce, adapt, and supervise controls on exports of potatoes has been dele- gated to the Cyprus Potato Marke t ing Board. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Cyprus and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made free ly in sterling or ano ther Sterling Area currency. Settle- ments with countries covered by bilateral payments arrangements must be made through the appropr ia te account.1 Payments to other countries except Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling or Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The proceeds of exports to other countries except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or Cyprus pounds f rom an External Account, in any specified currency ,2 or in any other currency free ly exchangeable for sterling. Settlements with Rhodesia are sub ject to special regu la t ions; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in a specified currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Cyprus and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, and the 1 Cyprus has bilateral payments arrangements involving settlements through clearing accounts with Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS funds on all such accounts are freely transferab le within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may maintain w i th au thor ized banks nonresident accounts, designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments f rom the Sterling Area, with t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales by nonresidents of fo re ign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling A rea, for t rans fe rs to other External Accoun ts, and for purchases of fore ign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with (1) payments f rom External Accounts, (2) payments by residents of the Sterling Area that are made by check, bill, or d r a ft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or under irrevocable credits opened on or before that date, (3) the proceeds of sales by, or on behalf of, the account holder to an authorized dealer of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, and (4) transfers f rom other Rhodesian Accounts. Rhodesian Accounts may be debited for (1) payments to residents of any country made by check, bill, or d r a ft drawn on or before November 11, 1965 or made under an irrevocable credit opened on or before that date by a bank in Cyprus or Rhodes ia, (2) payments to residents of the Sterling Area for goods that had been delivered or shipped to Rhodesia on or before November 11, 1965, (3) living expenses in Cyprus of the account holder or his f am i l y, (4) insurance premiums payab le to companies in the Sterling Area on personal policies taken out prior to November 11, 1965 by the account holder or his fam i ly, (5) bank charges due to authorized dealers in Cyprus, (6) sterling travelers checks and personal letters of credit issued by banks in Rhodesia and encashed in Cyprus, and (7) t rans fe rs to other Rhodesian Accounts. Blocked Accoun ts are ma in ta ined in the name of a nonresident for certain payments of a capital na ture wh ich, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. These accounts may be in the fo rm of deposits with local banks earn- ing interest which may be freely transferred abroad. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Most imports f rom other countries may be made freely under an open general license. Ind iv idual import licenses are, however, required for some 50 items (certain agricultural and textile products, a few metals, and most nonelectrical mach inery) and for all goods originating in countries with which Cyprus maintains bilateral payments arrangements (see footnote 1). 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Individual import licenses are not required for bona fide gifts up to fC 10 in value and not to be sold, for returned goods, or for certain special transactions. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest f rom foreign investments may be transferred abroad, af ter payment of any charges and taxes due. For certain categories of payments, limits are imposed mainly for the purpose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, the lower limit is £C 400 a year, and the upper limit is £C 1,400 a yea r; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living in the country concerned —e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East, £C 450; in the United States and Canada, £C 1,400; in other countries, £C 850. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on production of sufficient docu- mentary evidence. For tourist travel, the limit is £C 250 a person annua l ly; for business travel £C 5 to £C 25 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to £C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of £ , s tg. 50. Nonresident travelers may take out any other foreign currency notes which they brought into Cyprus. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to licensing by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to licenses issued by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports to any destination are free from licensing when the f.o.b. value does not exceed £C 75. All other exports require an export license f rom the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; goods destined for countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to a fu r ther control to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see Prescription of Currency, above ). Proceeds front Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign currency notes and Cyprus currency notes. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or payments in Sterling Area currencies. Receipts in other currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized b a n k; payments of a capital nature in those currencies require prior approval. Foreign investments in Cyprus by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. In considering such application, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the foreign exchange liability wh ich might arise f rom the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Foreign investment involving participation in domestic industries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capital is normally approved; participation above this limit may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Proceeds from the liquidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated af ter payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling Area, and Cypriots who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area, may transfer abroad up to £C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. Changes during 1965 November 20. Rhodesia was excluded f rom the definition of the Sterling Area and the Rhodesian pound became a foreign currency for exchange control purposes. The accounts of residents of Rhodesia became Rhodesian Accounts. Exports to Rhodesia had to be settled in a specified currency, in sterling f rom an External Account or a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom, or in local currency f rom an External Account or a Rhodesian Account in Cyprus. Payments due to persons resident in Rhodesia could be made in local currency to a Rhodesian Account in Cyprus or in sterling to a Rhodesian Account in the United Kingdom. All payments to or f rom Rhodesian Accounts required prior approval by the exchange control authorities; payments to External Accounts would not normally be allowed. Various transac- tions involving Rhodesian interests were restricted. December 6. The bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was terminated. December 14- The basic tourist travel allowance could no longer be used for travel to Rhodesia. 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS December 16. All imports from Rhodesia were prohibited. December 20. All payments for approved services of a commercial character rendered by residents of Cyprus to Rhodesia, and all pay- ments for exports to Rhodesia, must be received in a specified foreign currency. December 22. Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were designated as specified currencies. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. An exchange tax of 0..5 per cent is levied on all payments to countries outside the French Franc Area, the m in imum charge being CFAF 100. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by authorized banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import licenses, import certificates, and export licenses are issued by the Department of Economic A f fa i rs and approved by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Eastern Germany, Hungary, and the United A rab Republic are made through special accounts under the terms of the bilateral payments agreements concluded with those countries.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries— provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TAfrique de TOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 'There is also an inoperative payments agreement with Ghana. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Imports and Import Payments Certain imports from all sources are prohibited.3 Imports of all other goods from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from EEC countries other than France may also be made freely. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a joint French-Dahomean Committee, as provided for by the Economic Cooperation Agreement with France. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports from all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. A few specified commodities4 are subject to individual ceilings; for each of these commodities, this amount is made up of a global quota for the EEC countries other than France and a global quota for all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC coun- tries. The quotas determine the limits up to wh ich import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to industrial or agricultural producers. Certain textiles are licensed freely outside the import program. For other goods admitted without quantitative restric- tion import certificates are issued. All imports from countries outside the French Franc Area must be registered (domiciled) with an authorized bank. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized banks; however, import payments up to the equivalent of CFAF 1 million may be made when the import transaction is registered. Under the EFAC arrangement (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low), licenses for the import of goods to be used directly by exporters are approved f ree ly, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Exchange Office. Payments for invisibles related to trade are authorized freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also approved freely. Foreigners may 8 In addition to such items as arms, explosives, and drugs, the prohibition covers phosphorous matches, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, diamonds, gold, wheat flour, potatoes, and saccharine. Imports of canned fish in tins of over one kilogram are prohibited unless of French origin. * These commodities are beverages other than whisky and gin, piece goods (printed and unprinted), vehicles and spare parts, and refrigerators. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY transfer all their savings from salaries, provided that the transfer is made within three months of receipt of the salary. Payments for other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. Exchange for pre- miums in respect of bona fide insurance transactions is granted freely. Travelers to countries outside the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allowance in an amount equivalent to CFAF 120,000 per annum; the allowance is released in four equal installments, each of which may be taken up only if evidence is submitted to show that the preceding installment has been fu l ly utilized for genuine tourist expenditures. Exchange for business travel is granted up to the equiva- lent of CFAF 50,000 for each trip. Exchange for fam i ly support is granted up to the equivalent of CFAF 27,500 a month for each dependent. Exchange for study abroad is granted free ly upon sub- mission of documentary evidence of expenses. Representation, adver- tising expenses, and business travel may be financed with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Travelers to the other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union 5 may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the French Franc Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for wh ich the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in metropolitan francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP f rancs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f ranc. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all other countries require licenses but are not subject to quantitative restriction. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain the following percentages of export proceeds in special, nontransferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Acces- soires) accounts: 12 per cent for proceeds from Canada and the United States, irrespective of the currency used for payments; 8 per cent for 6 The West African Monetary Union consists of Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY proceeds from other countries, irrespective of the currency used for payments; and 6 per cent for proceeds of exports on consignment. Except for proceeds of exports on consignment, these percentages may be increased by 3 per cent by enterprises engaged principally in export business. Balances on these accounts may be used to make any payment outside the French Franc Area, provided that general or special authori- zation has been obtained within the regulations for their use. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of countries outside the French Franc Area in respect of services, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 earned in those countries from fore ign securities, must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one mon th of receipt. Travelers from the other countries of the West A f r i c an Monetary Union (see footnote 5) may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers f rom other countries may b r ing in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Dahomey and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of con t ro l; those between Dahomey and all other countries require approval. The Investment Code of December 31, 1961 provides for preferen t ial status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, agriculture, and, in some cases, commerce, when such invest- ments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferential regimes are established. Plan A is intended for small and medium-sized investments and provides for exemption, dur ing a period of up to 5 years, f rom import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed product. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a max imum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, exemption dur ing the first 5 years of operation from the tax on industrial and commercial earnings as well as certain other taxes. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises and is granted for a period of up to 25 years. In addition to the benefits of Plan A and B, Plan C guarantees marketing stabilization for products, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Transfers abroad of proceeds f rom the liquidation of foreign invest- ments are authorized freely. Changes during 1965 January 29. Imports of potatoes were prohibited. March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Rumania, which was also applicable to Dahomey, was terminated. April 11. A bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was signed. September 15. Payments up to the equivalent of CFAF 1 million for imports from countries outside the French Franc Area could be made when the import transaction was registered with an authorized bank. November 22. Exemption f rom the deposit requirements was granted to securities issued by pub l ic or private ju r id ical persons domiciled outside the French Franc Area, provided that the securities were exclusively denominated in French francs and provided that they were serviced only in Dahomey. Residents could sell fo rwa rd all receipts in non-Franc Area currencies f rom countries outside the French Franc Area. Residents could also obtain spot or forward cover for all payments to countries outside the French Franc Area. Authorized banks could f ree ly grant credit to nonresidents, in the form of overdrafts on Foreign Accounts and for periods up to six months. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK x Exchange Rate System The par value is Danish Kroner 6.90714 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are DKr 6.8575 buying, and DKr 6.9575 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for the Canadian dollar and specified European currencies 2 are quoted daily. Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage with one another and with their foreign correspondents in convertible and externally convertible currencies, including Danish kroner, both spot and fo rwa rd for up to 12 months. Forward premiums and discounts are l e ft to the interplay of market forces. Forward transactions with residents must have a commercial basis. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange control authority. However, administra- tive powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained f rom the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agriculture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency For exchange control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral account countries 3 and the convertible area (a ll other countries). 1In view of the changes that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Icelandic k ronu r, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 3 Brazil, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, and, for merchandise payments only, Colombia. 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Payments to countries in the convertible area may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting Danish kroner to any Convertible or Bilateral Krone Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Payments f rom countries in the convertible area may be received in any currency of the area or in Danish kroner, except f rom a Bilateral Krone Account. Payments to the bilateral account countries must be made in accord- ance with the payments agreement between Denmark and the country concerned, usually in Danish kroner through a Bilateral Krone Account; noncommercial payments to Brazil may be made in con- vertible currencies. Payments f rom bilateral account countries may be received in accordance with the relevant payments agreement or in convertible currency, including Danish kroner. Nonresident Accounts Most accounts held in Danish kroner for nonresidents are con- vertible. Bilateral Krone Accounts are maintained for a few countries (see footnote 3). Both Convertible Krone Accounts and Bilateral Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that amounts in excess of DKr 75,000 are to be transferred abroad auto- matically at the end of each quar ter; this limitation is not applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish nationality. Convertible Krone Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Convertible Krone Accounts, with the proceeds f rom sales of currencies of countries in the convertible area, and with authorized payments to countries in the convertible area. They may be debited for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts or to Bilateral Krone Accounts, for purchases of any foreign currency, and for authorized payments to residents of Denmark f rom any fore ign country. Bilateral Krone Accounts may be credited with t rans fe rs f rom any Convertible Krone Account, with transfers f rom another Bilateral Krone Account of the same country and with the proceeds f rom sales of the currency of that country or of currencies of countries in the convertible area, and with authorized payments to any fore ign country. They may be debited for t rans fe rs to other Bilateral Krone Accounts of the same country and for purchases of the currency of that country, and for authorized payments to residents of Denmark f rom the country of the account holder. Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts play only an insignificant part in settlements with foreign countries. 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income from capital, pensions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants within the first year after emigration and which are not transferable abroad because they amount to more than the allocation granted for the transfer of such funds. Balances on Capital Accounts may be used for the same private payments in Denmark as those generally allowed from Convertible and Bilateral Krone Accounts, but may be used only within certain limits for commercial payments in excess of DKr 2,000. Within the limits set for transfers of emigrants' funds, i.e., up to DKr 40,000 a person in the year after emigration, balances may be transferred abroad, used for commercial payments in Denmark, or transferred to other Capital or to Foreign Accounts. Af ter one year, emigrants may transfer remaining balances on Capital Accounts without limita- tion, and the account is then reclassified either as a Convertible Krone Account or as a Bilateral Krone Account. Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts with savings banks, small cooperative banks, and the Public Trustee's Office. These accounts are kept mainly by private persons and for private purposes. The rules governing such accounts follow broadly the same principles as those established for Convertible Krone Accounts, except that transfers abroad may be made only through an authorized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments All goods not on a restricted list containing mainly nonindustrial goods may be imported without license f rom the "Free List Area," which comprises most countries outside the Soviet bloc.4 For imports from the "Free List Area" of commodities on the restricted list, licenses are issued on the basis of global (regional) quotas and may be used for any country in the "Free List Area." 5 Imports f rom countries outside the "Free List Area" require licenses; these are generally granted in accordance with bilateral trade agreements and traditional trade relations, and apply to the specific country concerned. Licenses are issued free ly for a large number of commodities when these are imported from Bulgaria, Poland, and Rumania. Payments for imports and the related shipping expenses may be made freely within two years from the end of the month in which the 4The following countries are not included in the "Free List Area": Albania, Brazil, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Mongolian People's Republic, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Syrian Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and North Viet-Nam. 5 Only wine, some fish, and cut flowers are imported under licenses which apply to a specific country. 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK goods were cleared through customs, or within five years for imports of ships, a i rc ra f t, large machines, and ma jor plants. The authorized exchange dealer may make payment before clearance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clearance lies within a year from the date of payment. Payments for Invisibles The National Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the authority to permit payments for most invisibles to be made f ree ly; only in a few cases is approval f rom the Bank required. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any permitted purpose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated liberally and may be obtained in convertible or externally convertible currencies for travel to any country, including the bilateral account countries. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be purchased from agencies or individuals other than the authorized exchange dealers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Travelers may take out free ly DKr 2,000 in Danish banknotes and coins, and any amount in foreign banknotes or other means of payment. The DKr 2,000 limit may be exceeded by nonresidents who may export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived f rom sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of m a jor agr icu l tural and fishery products require export licenses issued by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Exports of a few industrial products to the "Free List Area" and of all products to other countries require licenses issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the primary purposes of the regulations being to safeguard the fu l f i l lm ent of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to importing countries, to serve strategic purposes, and to avoid re-export and transit transactions involving loss of convertible or externally convertible currencies. Export proceeds must be transferred to Denmark without undue delay unless the National Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amounts which are to be used within three months to settle or to offset the cost of certain commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, except that an individual resident may hold foreign banknotes and coins not exceeding DKr 2,000 in value. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived f rom invisibles must be transferred to Denmark, unless the National Bank permits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer without undue delay, with exceptions similar to those that apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may bring in any amount in Danish banknotes and coins, foreign banknotes, and other Danish or foreign means of payment. Capital Residents have an obligation to repatriate proceeds realized from the sale or liquidation of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, to redeem, or to repurchase the trans- feror's own securities to lend amounts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, etc., or to a member of the resident's fam i ly, and to buy foreign securities that do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or industrial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscription right to shares or the like owned by the resident concerned or provided that the resident furn ishes proof that he has repatriated a corresponding amount within the last 12 months f rom the sale of fore ign securities to a nonresident. Permission f rom the National Bank is required fqr most other transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents. Danish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person dur ing the first year a f ter emigration. Funds exceeding this amount must be credited to a Capital Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year af ter emigration. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made without any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, hand icraf ts, hotel business, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires permission from the Ministry of Commerce, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice. A nonresident who is or has been a Danish national may freely purchase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Danish kroner which do not represent direct investment. Other nonresidents may purchase or subscribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK solely in Danish kroner, when the funds have been obtained f rom the liquidation of investments in Denmark. They may purchase or sub- scribe to shares that are quoted daily, are expressed solely in Danish kroner, and do not represent direct investment, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of Danish shares, or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscription rights to shares. Non- residents may grant credits within certain limits to residents to f inance purchases of commodities abroad and to f inance the granting of credits for exports. They may, fu r the r, grant loans up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year to commercial and industrial enterprises connected with the lender as subsidiary companies, branches, etc., or to members of their families. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad without special permission of the National Bank, but their fore ign borrowing is subject to control by the competent executive department of the Government. Transfers of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by nonresidents other than newly emigrated Danish nationals are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of pr inc ipal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received f rom persons and firms who were nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may normally be transferred to any country without limitation. Individual payments above DKr 2,000 as gifts to persons other than relatives require approval from the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide g i f t s .' Imports and exports of securities require permission f rom the National Bank. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and fore ign securi- ties owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold free ly to residents. Foreign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may be sold to residents only with the National Bank's permission. Foreign securities held in Denmark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regula- tions concerning emigrants are not circumvented. Changes during 1965 January 1. Further imports f rom the 'Tree List Area" were liberal- ized, inc lud ing adhesives, carbon paper, and packag ing materials. January 1. Yugoslavia was transferred to the "Free List Area." 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK June 18. The payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was revised; all settlements were to be effected through an account in Danish kroner at the National Bank of Denmark. July 1. Further imports f rom the "Free List Area" were liberalized, including household refrigerators and washing machines. September 14. Further relaxations of exchange restrictions took place. These included a reduction f rom three years to one year of the period in which Danish nationals who have emigrated are subject to special exchange regulations, and the granting of a general permission to authorized exchange dealers to purchase abroad Danish securities payable or optionally payable in foreign currency, provided that these securities either had been sold to nonresidents previously or would be resold to nonresidents within 14 days. NOTE.—The following changes took place early in 1966: January 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Rumania was terminated. January 1. Certain imports from Bulgaria, Poland, and Ruman ia were liberalized. January 1. Further liberalized. from the "Free List Area" were imports 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is Dominican Peso 1.00 = US$1. Exchange trans- actions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at the par value. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public also take place at the par value. All payments abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to banks. The commercial banks are required to transfer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is administered by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency No obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents in respect of the method to be fo l lowed or the currency to be used for payments to or f rom nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Imports of kidney beans, potatoes, onions, and garlic require the approval of the Ministry of Agr icu l ture; such imports are at present prohibited. Licenses for other imports are not required. All payments for imports are subject to scrutiny by the Central Bank to determine whether they correspond to bona fide transactions. Advance deposits of 40 per cent or 80 per cent of the f.o.b. value are required on certain impor ts; the deposits must be lodged with the Central Bank when the goods are cleared through customs, and they are re fundab le af ter six months. Payments for many imports are settled on a d r a ft for collection basis; when the d ra ft is presented for collection, the importer pays the f u ll amount in pesos to the commercial bank; the bank then transfers this deposit to the Central Bank which releases exchange for the remittance. Other imports are paid for by letter of credit or a direct t rans fer of exchange: the commercial banks transmit daily to the Central Bank a list of importers' applications for exchange accompanied by the equivalent in local currency. The Central Bank authorizes the commercial banks to open letters of credit and, when 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC these have been negotiated, it transfers foreign exchange to the banks; all letters of credit except those covering industrial machinery and raw materials must be paid in fu ll by the importer upon the opening of the credit. Exchange to meet direct transfers is provided promptly. Most imports are subject to customs surcharges totaling 51.5 per cent ad valorem. Payments far Invisibles All payments for invisibles, except tourism, require the approval of the Central Bank, which in most cases is given freely. There is a limit of US$50 for each application in respect of personal and fam i ly remittances. For tourism, the banks may make exchange equivalent to US$100 available to an individual resident once every six months. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in connection with the opera- tion of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agreement. Within 48 hours of receiving payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank foreign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f .o.b. value of their exports. Proceeds from Invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are subject to sur- render requirements and must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward movement of capital by either (residents or nonresidents. Inward capital remittances must be registered with the Central Bank and must be converted into pesos at that Bank. Applications for approval of outward capital remittances must be submitted through the commercial banks to the Central Bank. Changes during 1965 August 7. The 40 per cent import deposit requirement imposed on most imports on November 5, 1964 was increased to 80 per cent for some less essential consumer goods. Certain other commodities were exempted f rom advance deposit requirements; these included industrial and agricultural machinery and equipment, nearly all raw materials, petroleum, and industrial containers. November 30. Imports of passenger automobiles, jeeps, and certain consumer durable goods could only be made against a letter of credit. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Ecuadoran Sucres 18.00 = US$1. The official rates are S/ 17.82 buying, and S/ 18.18 selling, per US$1. These rates apply to nearly all exports, to payments for all imports (except books) and related invisibles, to official transactions, to other essential invisibles, to registered capital, and to all contractual registered private foreign debt operations entered into a f ter July 14, 1961. For all other trans- actions there is a free market, in which the rates as at December 31, 1965 were S/ 18.49 buying, and S/ 18.52 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control The Monetary Board classifies transactions according to the exchange market through wh ich they must be settled. Most trans- actions pass through the off ic ial market, which is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses. Transactions that do not qua l i fy for the off ic ial market may enter the f ree market —conducted mainly by exchange houses and several commercial banks —where such trans- actions are free of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Prescription of Currency Exchange proceeds must be received in convertible currencies, usually U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are divided into two categories: List I, consisting of essential and semiessential goods, and List II, consisting of less essential and luxury goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited, except books, which may be imported freely. Prior import licenses are required for all permitted imports exceeding a value of US$100, except those financed by official foreign loans. A few goods may only be imported f rom LAFTA countries, and some only f rom Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appropriate advance deposits and the required prepayments of import duties have been made. The licenses automatically entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the o f f ic ial rate to cover the c .i .f. value of the imports upon presentation of the shipping documents; advance payments for imports are prohibited. The Monetary Board is authorized to sh i ft items between Lists I and II and to proh ib it the import of goods or lift import prohibitions when the economic situation of the country and the balance of payments situation so require. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR The advance deposit requirement applies to almost all private imports. The exceptions are imports under the Agricultural Surplus Agreement with the United States, imports of special types of cotton from LAFTA countries, all imports f rom Paraguay, imports of capital goods financed by international organizations or by suppliers' credit of at least three years, and imports made by the Government and official institutions. The advance deposit must be made in sucres by the importer when applying for an import license; the importer must at the same time lodge with the Central Bank a prepayment of part of the import duty. The rates for the advance deposit required are currently 15 per cent of the c . i .f. value for imports in List I, 30 per cent for about 100 articles in List II, and 80 per cent for most other imports in List II. The prescribed prepayment of import duty is 10 per cent of the duty on commodities in List I and 45 per cent of the duty on those in List II. Advance deposits are released at the time of customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for transactions in invisibles that may be made through the official market require an exchange license from the Central B ank; the license is granted freely for all authorized transactions. These transactions include invisibles connected with trade (e.g., fre ight and insurance); necessary expenses (i.e., travel, tuition, and living expenses up to US$100 a month) of Ecuadoran students abroad who are registered with the Central Bank; most payments of the Government and of official entities; payment of interest on registered private foreign investment up to 7 per cent annually, or payments of interest, profits, dividends, and amortization up to 15 per cent annua l ly; and contractual private foreign debt operations entered into and registered after July 14, 1961. Other payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except those of certain foreign oil companies require licenses to ensure, among other things, the f u ll surrender, of the exchange proceeds; licenses are issued freely. M in imum surrender prices (ajoros) are established for exports of bananas (according to port of shipment, destination, and season) and for shrimps; exchange corresponding to those prices must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate, while any excess receipts may be sold in the free market. Exports of bananas are subject to m in imum export prices expressed in sucres. Exports of coffee, cacao, bananas, sugar, and gold and silver filigree work are subject to export taxes of 9.4 per cent (washed, or 9.6 per cent unwashed ), 10 per cent, 21.4 per cent, 3.4 per cent, and 10 per cent, 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR respectively.1 Exports of bananas are subject to an additional specific tax of S/ 1.2 a stem. Exports of rice by the National Development Bank receive a subsidy equal to the d ifference between its cost to the National Development Bank and the f.o.b. price; the average subsidy paid in 1965 was S/ 16.50 per quintal or S/ 3 per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles related to trade and all receipts of the Government and of official entities have to be sold at the official rate. Other receipts from invisibles (including those from tourism) may be sold in the free market. Capital Receipts of private foreign capital must be surrendered to the Central Bank at the official buying rate if registration with the Central Bank is desired. This also applies to fore ign exchange sold by foreign cohipanies for the purpose of obtaining local currency for salaries, taxes, and other local expenses. Foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment may also be registered with the Central Bank. The Central Bank can re fuse to register foreign capital if the investment is not considered to be in the interest of the Ecuadoran economy at that par t icu lar time. All unregistered private capital may enter without limitation through the free market. An Industrial Promo- tion Law provides for certain exemptions f rom import duties and import charges to three categories of industrial investment. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the with- drawal of registered foreign investment f rom Ecuador up to a total of 15 per cent per annum of the amount registered; this percentage includes interest, dividends, profits, and amortization. Contractual repayments of registered fore ign loans may also be made at th^ official rate. All other capital remittances, either by residents or nonresidents, may be made through the f ree market. Capital receipts of the Government and of off ic ial entities are converted at the off ic ial buying rate, and payments at the official selling rate. However, the proceeds from loans granted to the Govern- ment and o f f ic ial entities by foreign financing organizations are con- verted by the Central Bank at the off ic ial selling rate of S/ 18.18, instead of at the off ic ial buying rate of S/ 17.82, per US$1. In such instances, the Central Bank receives from the Treasury or the borrower *The export tax on bananas is levied on an assumed f.o.b. value expressed in sucres per pound that varies with province of origin, port of shipment, destination* and season. The official average weight per stem is 66.38 Ibs. for exports to the United States and 56.48 Ibs. for exports to other countries. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR a payment of S/ 0.072 per US$1 as reimbursement for the Central Bank's share of the normal spread between the o f f ic ial buying and selling rates. Commercial banks are permitted to ho ld up to 10 per cent of their capital in foreign exchange. Changes during 1965 January 12. An Industrial Promotion Law, replacing the Develop- ment Law of 1962, provided additional tax and import duty benefits to certain categories of approved industrial investment. January 29. Decree No. 161 au thor ized barter transactions to be carried out with Bulgaria, Ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. January 29. Decree No. 182 required advance payment to the Central Bank, upon application for an import license, of 50 per cent of the import duty and 9 per cent of the f .o .b. v a lu e; the latter pay- ment constituted an advance on the consular fee of Wy2 per cent on the f.o.b. value. These advance payments were add i t ional to the existing advance deposit requ iremen ts; previously, the Central Bank had paid the same advance fees out of the advance import deposit lodged by the importer. February 2. M in imum prices expressed in sucres were imposed on exports of bananas. March 22. The minimum prices for exports of bananas were revised. April 19. Decree No. 761 revoked Decree No. 182 (see above) and required importers to lodge advance payment for part of the import duties with the Central Bank be fo re an import license was issued; the advance payments amounted to 10 per cent of the duty on com- modities in List I and 45 per cent of the duty on goods in List II. May 1. A new customs ta r i ff came into fo rce which consolidated import duties, all import taxes, and the 10% per cent consular fee. September 22. A mu l t i la te ral clearing agreement was signed by the central banks of A rgen t ina, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador. Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. November 16. Decree No. 2527 revoked all taxes on exports excep those specified in the new customs ta r i ff and published the sam* day; the decree was retroactive to November 10. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Salvadoran Colones 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transac t ions with the pub l ic are 0 2.49 buying, and (3 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by com- mercial banks with the pub l ic take place at or within these limits and are subject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador through its Exchange Control Department. Authority to approve certain payments is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Exchange Control Depar tmen t; in some instances the license also requires the approval of the Ministry of Economy. The Central Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but this power has not been exercised. Prescription of Currency Payments to Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and specified invisibles are settled in Salvadoran colones through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Pay- ments to Mexico are also settled in Salvadoran colones through the clearinghouse. Otherwise, residents are f r ee to make authorized pay- ments in any currency they choose. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of nonresidents may be u t i l ized f ree ly, but the com- mercial banks must make periodic reports to the Central Reserve Bank of the movements on such accounts. Accredited diplomatic missions and other fo re ign institutions or persons established in El Salvador may be au thor ized to hold nonresident accounts in U.S. dollars with au thor ized banks, provided that such accounts are credited with fo re ign exchange received f rom abroad. The maximum ba lance which may be held on these accounts is fixed by the Exchange Control Department. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required only for airplanes, firearms, ammuni- tion, military equipment, and dynamite. Payments and transfers abroad require exchange licenses, wh ich are granted free ly, provided that (unless the goods are imported f rom other countries of the Central American Common Marke t) the terms of payment do not exceed certain max ima: (1) Imports of raw materials or equipment for use in agriculture, stock raising, or industry ( inc lud ing construction), and essential products as determined by the Board of the Central Reserve Bank, are authorized by the Exchange Control Department when the terms of payment do not exceed 360 days f rom the date of entry of the merchandise into a customs warehouse. (2) Imports of the same commodities with longer payment terms are not authorized by the Exchange Control Department unless the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy has been obtained. (3) Imports of all other commodities are authorized by the Exchange Control Department, provided that the terms of payment do not exceed 120 days. The commercial banks are authorized to provide exchange for import payments not exceeding US$6,000 for imports f rom Central Amer ican countries and US$2,000 for imports f rom all other countries: larger amounts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance, a prior deposit calculated on the value of the advance payment is required f rom the importer as a guarantee. The deposit varies according to the nature of the goods: 10 per cent on raw materials not produced domestically; 20 per cent on other raw materials and machinery; 50 per cent on manu fac tu red goods not classified as luxury items; and 80 per cent on luxury goods. Imports paid for against letters of credit are sub ject to a prior deposit of 25 per cent (10 per cent for imports of machinery, equipment, and raw ma te r ia ls ). When the importer is a manu fac tu rer rather than a merchant, the prior deposit is usually waived. The deposit is re funded upon completion of the import transaction. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require exchange licenses, which are granted free ly for most items, although for certain payments only up to specified limits. Net profits may generally be remitted up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered cap i ta l; higher transfers require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy. The commercial banks provide exchange up to the equivalent of US$200 a person each six months for tourist travel. For larger amounts, authorization by the Exchange Control Department is requ ired; as a general rule, under 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR such au thor iza t ion, each person is granted up to US$30 a day while traveling abroad, sub ject to a max imum of US$2,000. Persons who require exchange in excess of US$2,000, for medical treatment abroad or for other special reasons, must deposit 25 per cent of the amount exceeding US$2,000 with the Central Reserve Bank at the time the au thor iza t ion is issued; the deposit is re funded when the Department receives the required p roo f. The Department also authorizes transfers of up to US$500 a mouth plus US$50 for each child to Salvadorans with permanent residence abroad. Students are allowed US$200 a mon th; those with fam i l ies are allowed US$250 a month plus US$50 for each child. Foreign exchange in excess of the limits given above is seldom granted. The exchange control regulations permit travelers to take out up to 0 200 hi local currency, but this amount may be increased to fac i l i ta te border trade with other Central Amer ican countries. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but the proceeds of exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the fo re ign exchange must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms must not exceed 90 days. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. The exchange control regulations permit travelers to bring in up to 0 200 in local currency, but this amount may be increased to fac i l i ta te border trade with other Central American countries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting f rom capital transactions must be surrendered. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments in Costa R ica, Guatemala, Honduras, and N ica ragua. The entry of capital in the fo rm of fo re ign investment is sub ject to the advance approval of, and registration by, the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) the remittance of net profits up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Ministry of Economy at the time of registration of the investment) and (2) amortization payments 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR and repatriation of the proceeds f rom the sale of the assets of the enterprise a f ter payment of taxes (including, where appropriate, capital gains t a x ). Foreign investments made in El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department in order to en joy the same facilities. For long-term foreign loans, the Exchange Control Department authorizes, without restriction, the remittance abroad of fo re ign currency for the payment of interest and amortization. The same treatment is granted to short-term foreign loans that have been approved by and registered with the Exchange Control Department. Changes during 1965 January 1. Import licenses were required for airplanes, firearms, ammunition, dynamite, and military equipment. May 20. The Central Reserve Bank took steps to restrain the growth of foreign suppliers' credit. (1) Imports of raw materials or equipment for use in agriculture, stock ra is ing, or industry ( inc lud ing construc- t ion ), and essential products as determined by the Board of the Central Reserve Bank, would be authorized by the Exchange Control Department when the terms of payment did not exceed 360 days f rom the date of entry of the merchandise into a customs warehouse. (2) Imports of the same commodities with payment terms exceeding 360 days would not be authorized by the Exchange Control Depart- ment unless the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy had been obtained. (3) Imports of all other commodities would be authorized by the Exchange Control Department, provided that the terms of payment did not exceed 120 days. (4) Imports f rom other countries of the Central Amer ican Common Market were exempt f rom these regulations. August 18. New businesses or industries with assets of less than US$40,000 could only be operated by native-born Salvadorans or Central Americans. October 26. The repatriation of registered fo re ign investments was no longer limited to the amount of the originally registered capital. 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Ethiopian Dollars 2.5 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Eth$2.48125 buying, and Eth$2.51875 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks under the control of the National Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and exports are sub ject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a department of the National Bank. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are norma l ly made in fore ign exchange appro- priate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars or sterling. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a fore ign currency wh ich is freely convertible, or in any other fore ign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts in Ethiopian dollars at authorized banks. Balances in these accounts may be free ly transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments No import licenses are required. However, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted free ly in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible currency that may be requested. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of or ig inal cost. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, mail t rans fe r, telegraphic t rans fe r, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis; for goods which were previously subject to advance deposit requirements, how- ever, the usance must not exceed 90 days. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses. Invisibles con- nected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may remit a maximum of 35 per cent of their salaries or annual taxable income, provided that they have resided in Ethiopia for less than six years; this time limit 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA does not apply to foreign nationals who are in contractual service with the Ethiopian Government or with an autonomous government organization and who have an employment contract specifically entitling them to remit a percentage of their earnings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for maintenance of bona fide dependents, education of ch i ldren, medical care, and pre- miums on insurance policies taken out be fo re Apr il 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision hav ing been made for local taxation, fore ign com- panies may remit dividends on their invested and reinvested capital in any cu r rency; for approved projects, they may also transfer amortization at the rate of 10 per cent per annum. Persons trave l ing abroad are allowed fore ign exchange equivalent to Eth$100 a day for a max imum period of six weeks if the jou rney is made for business purposes, and up to the equivalent of Eth$l,050 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$735 a year for those under 16, if the jou rney is made for pleasure and/or vacation. Travelers may take with them a max imum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must give details of the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that fo re ign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank of Ethiopia within three months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on entry, and its re-export is free ly permitted. Capital All receipts of capital in the fo rm of fore ign exchange must be surrendered. There is no discrimination regard ing the currencies in which foreign investments are accepted. Special concessions are made to approved new enterprises financed by foreign cap i ta l; these con- cessions include exemption f rom taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of mach inery free of duty, and permission to foreign investors to remit abroad earned profits a f ter taxation (see 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Upon liquidation, t rans fer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in any currency. Emigrants' allowances, t rans fe rs of legacies, and savings of fore ign employees upon retirement are permitted up to the equiva- lent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Transfers of sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subse- quent 12-month period. Changes during 1965 November 1. The bilateral payments agreement with the United A rab Republic was term ina ted; hence fo r th, all settlements with that country would take place in convertible currencies. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Finnish Markkas 3.20 = US$1. The off ic ial buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar vary within % of 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Market rates for certain other currencies 2 vary between limits which result f rom combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Finland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are le ft to the interplay of market forces. O f f ic ia l, fixed, buying and selling rates are applied to U.S. dollars, when used as a unit of account on bilateral clearing accounts. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, with their Finnish customers, and with foreign authorized banks, in U.S. dollars and certain other convertible or externally convertible currencies.2 Forward transactions may be concluded freely for periods not exceeding 12 mon ths; fo rwa rd trans- actions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegat- ing authority to the authorized exchange dealers (ma in ly commercial bank s ). Import and export licensing is administered by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Commerce, the Licensing Off ice, which is presided over by a Licensing Board composed of government off ic ia ls, including a representative of the Bank of Finland. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral coun t r ies3 and the convertible currency countries (a ll others). Settlements with the bilateral countries must be made in the currency of the agreement or in Finnish markkas through Restricted Accounts. Settlements with the convertible currency countries may be made in any convertible currency or through Convertible Accounts. Payments for imports f rom Brazil may be made only to Brazilian banks. 1 In view of the changes that took place early in 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at January 1, 1966. 2 These are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Icelandic kronur, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. 8 Finland has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Mainland China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Nonresident Accounts There are four categories of nonresident accounts: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Convertible Markka Accounts, Restricted Markka Accounts, and Capital Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonresidents in con- vertible or bilateral currencies.4 These accounts may be credited with amounts received in the currency in which the account is kep t; with payments authorized to be made in the currency in which the account is kept; and with interest accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for t rans fe rs to Capital Accounts; for payments to residents of F in land; and for w i thdrawa ls in Finnish currency. If the account is held in a convertible currency, it may -a l so be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in any convertible currency and for transfers abroad or withdrawals in any convertible currency. If the account is held in a bilateral currency, it may be debited for transfers to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for transfers to the respective bilateral country. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be credited with the equivalent in Finnish markkas of convertible currencies sold to an authorized bank; with authorized remittances f rom residents of Finland to residents of convertible currency countries; with transfers f rom other Convertible Markka Accounts; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank f rom a bank in a convertible currency country; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances ab road; and for transfers to other Convertible Ma rkka, Restricted Ma rkka, or Capital Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are held by residents of countries with which Finland has bilateral payments agreements (see foot- note 3 ). They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of U.S. dollars, the currencies listed in footnote 2, or the currency of the country of the account ho lde r; with transfers f rom another Restricted Markka Account of the same country; with authorized remittances payable to the country of the account ho lde r; with the value of Finnish banknotes received by an authorized bank f rom a bank in the country of the account ho lde r; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland in accordance with the relevant payments agreement; for transfers to other Restricted Markka Accounts related to the country of the account ho lder; for transfers to the country of the account ho lder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4 Residents are also permitted to hold Foreign Exchange Accounts. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonresident accounts. They may be credited with funds available for credit to a Convertible or a Restricted Markka Accoun t; with proceeds f rom the sale to a resident of any asset held by a nonres iden t; with interest on the account; with income from nonresident-held assets; and with sums obtained from the redemption of bonds. If the account holder is a bank, the account may also be credited with t rans fe rs f rom a Capital Account of a resident of the same country. Capital Accounts may be debited for the travel and living expenses in F in land of the account holder and nonresident members of his f am i ly or, if the holder is a firm, members of its staff traveling at the firm's expense, up to Fmk 1,000 for each person for each period of ten days; for payments not exceeding Fmk 1,000 for support of a person in distress in F in land; for payments for expenses incurred by a bank in administering the assets of the account ho lde r; for investment in bonds quoted on the stock exchange and issued a f ter August 31, 1939 which are not tied to any foreign currency and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the ho lde r; for acquisitions of shares on the basis of subscription rights to shares belonging to the same account holder and held in the custody of a bank; for the purchase through the Helsinki stock exchange of shares in place of other shares, held in the custody of a bank, that have been sold not more than a month be fo re; for t rans fe rs to the Capital Account of a bank located in the same country as that of the account ho lde r; and for monthly transfers abroad up to Fmk 1,000 to an account holder who has resided abroad du r ing the last three years, provided that he is destitute in his country of residence. Other transfers between Capital Accounts and other t rans fe rs abroad of funds deposited in Capital Accounts require the specific permission of the Bank of Finland. There are also special t ran s fer accounts for nonresident awaiting repatriation. funds Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported f ree of license from the license-free area (i.e., near ly all countries with wh ich Finland does not have bilateral payments ag reemen t s ), provided that the goods are purchased from and originate in that area.5 Certain other goods may be imported from the license-free area under the global quota system, by which import licenses are issued up to the limits of certain value quotas for specified commodity groups. Import licenses are not required for certain commodities originating in bilateral countries. Other imports 5F rom Brazil, however, only direct import is pe rm i t ted; payment for goods of Brazilian origin must be made direct to a Brazilian bank. 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the related trade agreement. All other imports require individual licenses. Exchange is granted without delay for all permitted imports on presentation of an application fo rm, the import license if required, and the original commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Importers of specific consumer durable goods must make payment abroad or deposit cash for their imports before customs' clearance can be obtained; otherwise, payment for imports must be made within six months a f ter the arr ival of goods in the country. For imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks have general permission to effect payments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to maximum allow- ance or other conditions; for other transactions, with few exceptions, exchange licenses are granted liberally by the Bank of Finland. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for wh ich general permis- sion has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad may purchase f rom commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 400 for each visit to the Scandinavian countries and Fmk 800 for each visit to other countries. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 100 a trip in Finnish notes and coins and any reasonable amount in fore ign notes and coins; travelers to neighboring countries mak ing f requent trips to destinations not located beyond any mun ic ipa l i ty ad jo in ing Finland's land boundary may take out Fmk 100 a person a month in Finnish notes and coins. The automatic exchange allocation for business travel is the equivalent of Fmk 120 a day. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for exports of metal scrap. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. All exporters, however, are permitted to keep a part of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Finnish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for incidental expenses related to exports and for authorized imports 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND of raw materials, equipment, and machinery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to maintain their own working balances in fo re ign exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived from current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment by nonresident travelers and returning Finnish residents is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland, which is granted in certain circum- stances. Inheritances are in most cases t rans fe rab le without limitation and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred auto- matically, up to Fmk 50,000 for each beneficiary. Nonresidents who have resided outside Finland for three years are permitted to repatriate their blocked assets within five years (1) by annual installments of Fmk 5,000 for amounts not exceeding Fmk 25,000 (to the annual installments may be added interest accrued on the account calculated in conformity with the ord inary rate of bank interest paid on deposits), and (2) by five equal annual installments for amounts exceeding Fmk 25,000. During the entire period of transfer, the funds must be held on special transfer accounts. Moreover, persons who have resided abroad since September 1, 1939 and foreign corporate bodies that since that date have held an account with a Finnish monetary institution are permitted to repatriate their balances freely. Nonresident bondholders may repatriate amounts fa l l ing due on account of redemption of bonds in markkas issued before September 1,1939. Nonresidents may purchase through an authorized bank, against convertible or externally convertible currencies or by debiting a Convertible Markka Account, bonds or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are deposited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally convertible currency. No permis- sion is needed for the acquisition of bonds issued af ter August 31, 1939 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND with funds classified as Capital Accounts, but proceeds of the sale of such securities may not be repatriated without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export o f, securi- ties involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with ma rkkas from a Convertible Ma rkka Account, approval for their export can be obtained f ree ly. The import of securities by nonresidents and re turn ing Finnish residents is unrestricted! The regulations concerning foreign investments are as follows. All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of F in land, wh ich considers the fo re ign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permission l ibe ra l ly, except where it would be contrary to the na t ional interest. At the time the Bank approves an incoming transac t ion, it may state the conditions for repatriation of the invested capital. Foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of the enterprise requ ire, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council. This approva l, when required, is usually granted l ibe ra l ly. The p r im a ry reason for the 20 per cent l im it is con- cern for the protection of na tural resources, mainly forests. On demand of the Bank of F in land, residents must declare their foreign assets and the yields on their property owned abroad. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities and real property abroad must be sur- rendered. Outward t ran s fe rs of capital by residents requ i re ind iv idual approva l; investment by residents in fore ign securities or real estate is rare ly permitted. For direct investment ab road, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange a l lowance of up to Fmk 5,000 a person. Changes during 1965 January 1. A lban ia, Cuba, Malawi, Tanzan ia, the United A rab Republic, and Zambia were included in the license-free area. January 1. The global quota program for 1965 became effective. The total value of the quotas was fixed at Fmk 492 million, which represented an increase of 23 per cent over the value of the quotas announced for 1964. February 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Turkey was terminated. April 15. The exchange control regulations were liberalized as fo l lows: (1) The automatic exchange allocation for business travel was increased f rom Fmk 80 to Fmk 120 a day. (2) Exporters were exempted f rom the obligation to surrender all foreign exchange to the 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND extent necessary to pay for imports of raw materials and costs inci- dental to exports. (3) The amount of foreign exchange wh ich author- ized banks could sell for transfers abroad of inheritances was increased from Fmk 32,000 to Fmk 50,000. (4) The exchange allowance for emigrants was increased f rom Fmk 2,500 to Fmk 5,000 (in addition to the basic travel a l lowance). (5) The period of time over which blocked capital funds belonging to certain foreign corporate bodies, or to nonresidents who dur ing the last three years have resided abroad, could be transferred abroad with the permission of the Bank of Finland was shortened f rom ten to five years. In addition, capital funds not exceeding Fmk 25,000 could be transferred in annual amounts up to Fmk 5,000. Persons who had resided abroad since September 1, 1939 and foreign corporate bodies that since that date had held accounts with a Finnish monetary institution could immediately transfer their balances. April 24. The Government introduced stricter hire-purchase terms in an effort to discourage imports of cars and consumer durables. April 30. The Bank of Finland requested commercial banks to restrict credits on imported goods and revised its criteria for the authorization of long-term suppliers' credits; hence fo r th, these must not exceed 65-75 per cent of the va lue of the goods. June 4- The import tax on passenger automobiles was increased. July 1. Israel was included in the license-free area. As a result, the total value of global quotas for 1965 was increased by Fmk 6 m i l l ion. August 1. License-free import treatment was extended to additional commodities listed under 134 ta r i ff headings or their parts. The total amount of the global quota program was consequently reduced by Fmk 17 million. September 24. A Cabinet Decree authorized the Licensing Office to determine that certain commodities no longer required an import license when imported f rom bilateral countries, provided that the country of purchase and that of origin were the same; this authority was limited to commodities that already were liberalized for import from the license-free area. In such cases the Licensing Office would have the authority to reintroduce the license requirement for balance of payments reasons or for domestic employment reasons. November 1. The amount in Finnish notes and coins that travelers may take out was reduced from Fmk 200 to Fmk 100 a person a t r ip; for travelers to neighboring countries mak ing frequent trips to destina- tions not located beyond any municipality ad jo in ing Finland's land boundary, the amount was set at Fmk 100 a person a month. The duty-free allowance of returning tourists was reduced f rom Fmk 150 to 198 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Fmk 70 (Fmk 35 for children under 15) or, for trips of less than 24 hours, Fmk 10. December 3. Rhodesia was excluded f rom the license-free area. FINLAND NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took place early in 1966: January 1. Certain goods no longer required a license when imported from bilateral countries, provided that the country of purchase and the country of origin were identical (see September 24, above ). January 1. Further imports f rom the license-free area were liberalized. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Francs 4.93706 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between off ic ial limits of F 4.90 buying, and F 4.9740 selling, per US$1. Market rates for Western European currencies and a few other currencies fluctuate between limits which result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by France and such limits in force in the coun- try of the other currency concerned. Forward exchange transactions take place at freely negotiated rates. Authorized banks in continental France ( inc lud ing Corsica) and in the Principality of Monaco, as well as banks established abroad, are permitted to deal spot or forward in the exchange market in France. Authorized banks may also deal with their correspondents in foreign markets in all currencies. Residents may freely conclude forward exchange contracts for periods not exceed- ing six months in respect of receipts and payments related to any permitted current or capital transactions; however, forward exchange contracts for longer periods may be entered into for the purpose of making payments for trade transactions. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Exchange Control Territory The French Franc Area comprises (1) the territory of the French Republic, i.e., continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Gu iana, and Reun ion ), the Overseas Terri- tories, except French Somaliland (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and French Polynesia); (2) the Condominium of the New Hebrides; and (3) Algeria, Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congp (Brazza- v i l le), Dahomey, Gabon, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Monaco, Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Togo, Tunisia, and Upper Volta. Payments from France to other parts of the French Franc Area are free of restriction. Administration of Control The Minister of Economy and Finance is granted extensive author- ity in trade and exchange control. Various departments of the Ministry are concerned with the issue and supervision of import and export 1 In view of the changes that took place early in 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on January 30, 1966. 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE documents, the issue of licenses for payments related to imports and exports, control of import payments and export proceeds, the prepara- tion of decisions concerning and control over French investments abroad and foreign investments in France, and the preparation of regulations concerning foreign trade and exchange. The Bank of France is concerned with the issue of licenses for transactions of a financial nature, controls relating to assets held abroad, the repatria- tion of income, transactions in foreign securities, etc. Much of the detail of exchange control is carried out by authorized banks designated by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area may be made in the currency of any part of that Area. Settlements with countries in the area of convertibility, which comprises all countries outside the French Franc Area, may be made in any of the currencies of those countries, or through Nonresident Foreign Accounts in Con- vertible Francs (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Settle- ments with Laos and Viet-Nam are sub ject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in f rancs may be opened by an authorized bank for a nonresident foreigner or for a French national who either has been residing abroad for at least two years or, before this two- year period has elapsed, has been accorded the status of a nonresident. Authorized banks may freely grant credit for up to six months in the fo rm of debit balances on nonresident accoun ts; otherwise, non- resident accounts in francs may not show a debit balance unless specifically permitted. French f ranc balances maintained by non- residents are not permitted to bear interest, except balances maintained by foreign central banks and international organizations. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs may be used for settlements with residents of the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing settlements for imports and exports). They may be credited freely with francs obtained from sales of currencies of countries in the area of converti- bility in the exchange market in France or through a French authorized bank in an exchange market abroad; with transfers from other Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs; with French francs obtained f rom the sale of foreign banknotes; and with French banknotes and coins received by authorized banks f rom their correspondents in countries in the area of convertibility. They may be debited freely for pur- chases in the exchange market in France of any foreign currency negotiated in that market; for purchases of the currency of any 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE country in the area of convertibility through a French authorized bank in an exchange market abroad; for transfers to the credit of another Foreign Account in Convertible Francs; for the purchase of foreign banknotes; and for French banknotes and coins dispatched by authorized banks to their correspondents in countries in the area of convertibility. Other transactions through Foreign Accounts may be made by ind iv idual or general au thor iza t ion. Three other categories of non- resident accounts (Tourist Accounts, Suspense Accounts, and Non- resident Internal Accounts) are of minor significance, in practice. Imports and Import Payments Goods originating in and brought f rom other parts of the French Franc Area are generally admitted free of quantitative restriction and individual license. Imports of goods which originate in countries outside the French Franc Area and are not covered by French import liberalization require individual licenses. Some liberalized imports from EEC countries and some imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area other than EEC countries are subject to m in imum pr ices; these require an administrative visa in addition to any import license that may exceptionally be required. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into three groups according to the extent of import l ibera l iza t ion: (1) OECD countries in Europe, their dependent terri- tories and associated countries, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the United States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified countries;2 and (3) all other countries. Imports f rom all countries of certain agricultural items and certain raw ma ter ia ls are free of quantitative restrictions. Commodities that may be imported free of quantitative restrictions from one group of countries include all the commodities that may be freely imported f rom the next group of countries plus some other speci- fied commodities. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrange- ments applicable to one country may be imported freely f rom another country, provided that the country of origin and the country of shipment both benefit from the liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products from countries in group (1) are free of quantitative restrictions, but such restrictions 2 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bhu tan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Ceylon, Chile, Republic of China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE are applied to a number of agricultural products; there is relatively little difference between the lists of goods which may be imported freely f rom d i f fe rent countries in this group. Imports of 68 industrial products f rom countries in group (2) are restricted, and restrictions are applied to these 68 and to certain additional industrial products f rom group (3) countries. Several agricultural products and many industrial products may be imported without quantitative restrictions f rom most group (3) countries,3 on the basis of an import attestation visaed by the Director of External Economic Relations. For liberalized imports not exceeding F 10,000 in value, only an invoice has to be submitted to the customs; most liberalized imports exceeding this figure are admitted on the basis of a customs declara- tion completed by the importer. (These two procedures account for more than 75 per cent of imports.) Some liberalized imports (spare parts, etc.) require an administrative visa, which is stamped on an import attestation; imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community require ind iv idual licenses, which are issued automatically. Other imports generally require individual import licenses. These are granted up to quotas determined on an individual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and applicable to specified coun- tries or areas in accordance with trade agreements or an import plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the IMEX and EXIM procedures,4 wh ich provide for the importation of raw materials and other goods needed to produce goods for export, or under the compensation transaction procedure, wh ich applies mainly to agricultural items f rom countries in the Soviet bloc. In view of the high degree of import liberalization, imports under these schemes are of minor importance. Imports exceeding F 10,000 in value, and all imports for which payment is required before the goods reach France, must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the import must be made. For goods imported under the import declaration or attestation procedure or with an import license, import- ers may, as soon as the import has been domiciled with an authorized 8 Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. * Under the IMEX procedure, licenses are issued for imports of goods needed to produce goods for export. The lag between importation and exportation may not exceed six months. Under the EXIM procedure, exporters are assured of receiving import licenses for the subsequent importation of goods used in the production of their exports. The time lag between exportation and importation is six to nine months. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE bank, arrange with the bank to purchase spot or fo rwa rd exchange. As a general ru le, payment to the fo re ign exporter may be made only a f ter documents have been presented to prove that the goods have been shipped. However, payment up to F 20,000 may be made at the time of dom ic i l ia t ion of the import, and special authorization may be given to importers to purchase exchange fo rwa rd for a period of more than six mon ths and to make total or partial prepayment at a date preceding that of importation by more than six months. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are controlled, but applications for remittances are approved, provided that no unauthorized capital t rans fer is involved. If ju s t i fy ing documents are presented and certain exchange control requirements are met, au thor ized banks are permitted to approve app l ica t ions for payments w i thout any limitation for many categories of current invisibles, and up to established limits for many other categories of current invisibles. Applications for other paymen ts for invisibles are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Payments which may be authorized without limitation include those related to approved trade transac t ions; to mar i t ime contracts of any k i n d; to income accru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, divi- dends, and royalties; to bank ing commissions, patent fees, and speci- fied categories of taxes; to specified insurance paymen ts; to fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; to rents and similar payments due to nonresident owners and administrators of firms in France; to partici- pation in foreign congresses, conferences, e tc .; to alimony in accordance with court decisions; to fees for education and cost of maintenance of students ab road; to business travel ab road; and to net salaries of nonresidents employed in France within three months f rom the date of payment. Payments up to established l im i ts wh ich may be approved inc lude those by residents traveling abroad for pleasure (up to F 5,000 for each t r i p ), by residents for fam i ly maintenance (up to F 1,000 a month for each bene f ic ia ry ), and by residents on account of rebates, re funds, discounts, etc. (up to F 10,000). Also, authorized banks may approve payments up to F 500 for any purpose; sub ject to certain conditions, they may approve t rans fe rs up to F 2,500 to residents finding themselves abroad without means of payment. In addition to the exchange allocation for tourist purposes (up to the equivalent of F 5,000 for each t r ip ), authorized banks may grant resident tourists going abroad exchange for renting rooms and villas 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE ab road; these tourists may freely make travel arrangements through licensed travel agencies operating in France or purchase credit cards in France for the ir traveling expenses abroad, without limitation, and buy tickets in France against French f rancs for any transportation abroad. Also, they are permitted to take with them up to the equiva- lent of F 1,000 in foreign exchange (notes, coins, travelers checks, etc.) wh ich they did not spend du r ing previous travel abroad. Nonresident travelers leaving France may exchange into foreign cur- rency French banknotes and coins up to F 1,000 w i thout any forma l i ty, and larger amounts upon presentation of proof that such banknotes and coins were obtained f rom the sale of fore ign currency or f rom deb i t ing a nonresident account w i th in the two months preceding their depar ture f rom France. Both resident and nonresident travelers crossing the border may take out of France banknotes or coins (except gold coins) up to F 1,000 in metropolitan f r an c s, or up to F 75,000 in CFA f r an cs or CFP f r an c s, or up to the equivalent of F 750 in banknotes issued by any other bank of issue in the French Franc Area. These banknotes and coins may be spent abroad or exchanged for other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require individual licenses; but if the total va lue does not exceed F 500, these exports may be permitted w i thout any fo rma l i ty, sub ject to certain exceptions. Regardless of their va lue, exports under the IMEX or EXIM pro- cedures, or through compensation transactions with certain countries,5 require licenses if the commodities are those for wh ich export licenses are requ i red; otherwise, they are sub ject to exchange commitments. Other exports are f ree of trade or exchange con tro ls; when such exports exceed F 5,000 in va lue, certain f inanc ial in fo rma t ion must be supplied together with the customs declaration in order to enable the verifica- tion of the collection of the export proceeds. Goods that are purchased in France by nonresidents against checks or travelers checks expressed in any currency, or against checks issued by fore ign correspondents of French banks to the debit of nonresident accoun ts, are considered as exports and are exempt f rom turnover taxes. 5 A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, No r th Korea, Poland, Rum an i a, Turkey, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Exporters may g rant credit for 180 days or, sub j e ct to adm in is t ra t ive au tho r iza t ion, for a longer pe r iod; but t h e r e a f t er the proceeds must be collected w i t h in 30 days. Expor ters are perm i t ted to sell f o rw a rd the ir anticipated export proceeds. If payment is received in fo re ign currencies, these currencies must be ceded on the exchange market w i th in th ree mon th s, un less they were used for paymen ts for au tho r ized transac t ions. Holders of expor ters' cards, wh i ch are issued to enter- prises that export a cer ta in pe rcen tage of the ir p roduc t ion, are entitled to ob ta in every year impo rt licenses for any commod i ty re la ted to the ir export activity, up to a va lue correspond ing to 10 per cent of the ir export proceeds in fo re ign cu r renc ies received in the prev ious year. Proceeds from Invisibles Res iden ts are obliged to collect w i th in a month f r om the date that payment is due proceeds a c c ru ing f rom services rendered by them ab road and, in gene ra l, a ll proceeds a c c ru ing f r om any other source abroad. If the settlement is in fore ign currencies, these currencies must be ceded on the exchange ma rket w i th in three mon ths, unless they were used for paymen ts for au tho r ized transac t ions. Res iden ts are, howeve r, exempted f r om th is requ i rement in respect of proceeds of up to F 1,000 a c c ru ing f r om the collection of coupons of fo re ign securities he ld abroad and f r om immovab le property located abroad. When the l im it of F 1,000 is r e a c h e d, such proceeds must be repa tr ia ted p r ior to Ma rch 31 of the year fo l low ing the year in wh ich the limit was exceeded. Travelers may br ing in any amount of bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) in me tropo l i tan f r a n c s, CFA f r an c s, CFP f r a n c s, or any fo re ign c u r r e n c y; howeve r, the exchange of bankno tes issued by some banks of issue in the French F ranc Area is p roh ib i ted or limited to ce r ta in amoun ts for each t rave le r. Residents re tu rn ing f rom abroad may retain fo re ign exchange (notes, coins, t rave le rs checks, e tc .) up to the equ iva lent of F 1,000 for use du r ing the ir next t r ip ab road. u r i np the ir next t r in ab road. Capital All cap i tal t ransac t ions invo lv ing nonresident interests must be carried out th rough the in te rmed ia ry of au tho r ized banks. Most ou twa rd t r an s f e rs by res iden ts for the purpose of mak ing investments abroad requ i re a p p r o v a l; these in c lude d irect investments in fore ign enterprises as w e ll as the es tab l ishment of branches by French f irms. Reques ts for the au tho r iza t ion of direct investments 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE abroad are approved l ibera l ly. Issues of securities in France by non- residents requ i re the app roval of the M in is try of F inance. Au tho r ized banks may f ree ly grant o v e r d r a f ts on nonres ident accoun ts for periods not exceed ing six mon ths. Res iden ts are pe rm i t ted to deal in securities ab ro ad, w i t h in the l im i t a t ions described below. Cap i tal assets ab road of residents are not sub ject to repa t r ia t ion. Res iden ts of French na t iona l i ty may use such assets in acco rdance w i th a general or ind iv idu al license. Res iden ts of fo re ign na t iona l i ty may dispose f ree ly of the ir assets ab road. Res iden ts of French na t iona l i ty must repa tr ia te w i th in th ree mon ths the proceeds f r om the sale of securities ab road, unless these proceeds were used to pu rcha se other securities. This obligation also app l ies to residents of fo r e ign na t iona l- ity, to the extent that the securities sold have previously been pu r- chased w i th f u n ds they he ld in France. T rans fe rs ab road are pe rm i t ted f r e e ly in respect of legacies and dowries due to non re s iden ts and in respect of assets of persons of fo r- eign na t iona l i ty who, a f t er s tay ing in F rance as res iden ts, leave to establish res idence ab road. Em ig ran ts are a l loca ted F 5,000 in add i- tion to the tou r ist a l l ow a n c e; they may app ly to the Bank of F rance for permission to t r a n s f er larger amoun ts. W i th in the l im i ts descr ibed below, non r e s id en ts may f r e e ly make inves tmen ts in France and deal in secur i t ies in France. They are permitted to repa t r ia te the proceeds a c c r u i ng f r om the l iqu ida t ion of approved inves tmen ts and f r om the sale of th e ir secu r i t ies in France. The f o l l ow i ng inves tmen ts may be m ade f r e e ly in France by, non- residents: (1) subscr ip t ions to an inc rease in the cap i tal of a French company, prov ided that its shares are o f f i c i a l ly quoted on a stock exchange in F r an c e; (2) subsc r ip t ions, at the t ime of issuance, to short- term 6 or long - te rm secu r i t ies and bonds issued by a French pub l ic service o rgan iza t ion or by a p r iva te en terpr ise h a v i ng its head o f f ice in F rance, prov ided that the secur i t ies issued by the p r iva te en terpr ise are o f f i c i a l ly quo ted on a stock exchange in F rance; (3) acqu i s i t ion on a spot basis th rough the in te rmed ia ry of a no ta ry pub l ic of immov- able property or rights to such proper ty located in F rance, for wh ich up to 50 per cent of the sales pr ice may be f in an c ed w i th c r ed i t; (4) loans to residents of up to F 1 m i l l ion (or its equ iv a l ent in fo re ign cu r r en cy ), prov ided that the ra te of in terest does not exceed 4 per cent and that the ma tu r i ty is less than two y e a r s ;7 and (5) pu rcha ses of 6 A l t h o u gh the exchange con t rol regu la t ions p e rm it nonresidents to subscribe to shor t- term securities, the r egu l a t ions of the N a t i o n al Credit Council do no t. 7 At no t ime may the to t al ou t s tand ing amount of the loans ob ta ined by a resident under these c i rcums tances exceed F 1 m i l l i on or its equ iv a l ent in foreign currency. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE securities in France as described below. Other investments, par t icu lar ly direct investments, by nonresidents in France require ind iv idual licenses. Repatriation of the proceeds f rom the liquidation of approved investments is permitted. Dealings in securities are subject to special regulations; in principle, all dealings must take place on stock exchanges. Nonresidents are permitted to deal on a stock exchange in France in any security officially quoted on that stock exchange; and residents are permitted to deal in France or abroad in any security o f f ic ia l ly quoted on a stock exchange. Special conditions are, however, a t tached to transactions in certain foreign securities listed by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Furthermore, purchases of French securities by nonresidents require prior license when they are to be made in any manner other than by purchase on a French stock exchange. Securities may be imported and exported f ree ly through au thor ized banks as fo l lows: imported on beha lf of residents or nonresidents; exported on beha lf of nonresidents (except French securities belonging to residents of R um a n i a ), or exported on beha lf of residents for the purpose of selling the securities in accordance with the regulations mentioned in the preceding pa rag raph. Dealings in securities on a spot or forward basis may be made in France by all nonresidents. Residents may carry out spot or fo rwa rd transactions in securities on foreign stock exchanges. Nonresidents must make paymen ts for securities purchased in France in accordance with the regu la t ions applicable to fore ign coun tr ies; they are permitted to t rans fer abroad the proceeds accru ing f rom the sale of securities in France. Exchange proceeds f rom the sale of securities abroad by residents may be disposed of in one of the fo l low ing ways: (1) repatriated and surrendered, (2) used to acquire securities abroad, or (3) if exchange control regulations in the country where the sale took place do not permit the transfer of proceeds f rom the sale of securities, ceded to a resident for the subsequent purchase of securities in that country. The purchase of securities by a resident on a stock exchange abroad can be financed by (1) the purchase of foreign exchange on the exchange market in France, (2) the use w i th in three months of the proceeds from the sale abroad of securities by the seller, (3) the use of funds in fore ign currency held by the buyer and not subject to surrender requirements, and (4) the use of funds in foreign currency acquired from any person in the French Franc Area if such funds may not be repatriated because of exchange control regulations abroad. 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Changes during 1965 March 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Ruman ia was terminated and Ruman ia was included in the area of convertibility; all Ruman ian Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Francs became Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. May 8. The lists of imports subject to m in imum prices were revised. May 16. The import of coffee f rom all sources outside the French Franc Area was freed f rom quantitative restriction and f rom the requirement of an administrative visa. May 18. A revised list was published of goods whose export was prohibited unless a special license was granted. July 13. Nonresidents could free ly buy and sell shares of French open-end mu tual funds. July 13. Residents could free ly under take fu tu res operations in foreign commodity markets, provided that the operations were regis- tered w i th, and carried out th rough, an au thor ized bank. July 13. Importers were perm i t ted to make payments up to F 20,000 to fore ign suppliers at the time of domiciliation of the import. October 15. Residents could f ree ly conc lude fo rwa rd exchange con- tracts for periods up to six months in respect of exchange receipts and payments related to any permitted cu r rent and capital trans- actions. October 15. Authorized banks could freely grant credits to non- residents in the fo rm of ove rd ra f ts on nonresident accounts for a period not exceeding six months. November 10. The regulations concerning insurance and reinsurance operations were revised. December 23. Au thor ized banks were f ree ly permitted (1) to make in the United A rab Repub l ic, with blocked Egyptian pounds, those payments allowed by the United Arab Republic and authorized under special or general permission by the French exchange control legisla- t ion; (2) to fac i l i ta te in that connection the negotiation of blocked Egyptian pounds between French residents; and (3) to sell blocked Egyptian pounds to nonres iden ts of the French Franc Area. December 24. Exports to Rhodesia of most oil products were pro- hibited. NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took p lace early in 1966: January ^ . E x p o rt controls were revised. Exports to countries out- side the French Franc Area no longer had to be domiciled at an authorized bank. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE January 8. The EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, in wh ich exporters could retain certain percentages of their export proceeds received in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area, were abolished. Hencefor th, holders of an exporter's card could obtain annually import licenses for any commodity related to their export activity, up to a value corresponding to 10 per cent of their proceeds in non-Franc Area currencies received in the previous year. January 30. Many imports of manu fac tu red goods f rom A lban ia, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R. were liberalized. 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The o f f ic ial un it of currency is the CFA f r a n c, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f r a n c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.2 The BCEAEC stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f rancs against French f rancs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris market rates for the other currencies concerned. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office, which is under the authority of the Ministry of National Economy. Exchange transactions are handled by commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Off ice. The Foreign Trade Office of the Ministry of National Economy allots to each importer exchange for goods included in the annual import program. It also issues import and export licenses, which must be approved by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Gabon is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly, provided that they originate in that Area. Many imports from EEC countries other than France are also f ree of quantitative restric- 1In view of developments that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this su rv ey ), this survey presents the position as at that da te. 2 The CFA f ranc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de TA f r ique Equa tor ia le et du Came roun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Cen tral A f r ican Repub l ic, Chad, and Congo (Brazzaville). 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON tions. All other imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area except petroleum are subject to import licensing in accordance with an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a jo int French- Gabonese Committee. For petroleum imports a joint quota is estab- lished for the four countries of the Equatorial Customs Union. Licenses for certain imports outside the import program are granted to large firms. Separate global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC coun- tries other than France and for imports f rom all other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas for EEC countries may be used only to import goods originating in those countries; the quotas for other countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area except the U.S.S.R. and Ma in land China, for each of wh ich separate quotas are established. Imports of certain goods f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to ceilings within the import program; there are separate ceilings for EEC countries other than France and for all countries outside the French Franc Area. Total imports from certain Far Eastern countries (taken as a group) are limited to 40 per cent of the total quotas established for all countries outside the French Franc Area. For goods included in the annual import program, the Ministry of National Economy publishes each year an announcement of the exchange allotted to each registered importer in accordance with, inter alia, his import business in the previous year. The importer submits to the Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy an application for a license within the limits of the quota that has been assigned to him. When the license is issued, the Exchange Office makes the exchange available to the importer through his bank. Import licenses are valid for six months; the license may be renewed three times for six months at a time for imports of capital goods, and twice, for three months at a time, for imports of supplies, provided that the importer presents valid reasons for requesting the renewal. Imports of liberalized goods f rom EEC countries other than France require an import certificate. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) licenses are granted for imports of raw materials and equipment to be used directly by exporters, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made free ly to residents of countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Foreigners who are not nationals of a French Franc Area country and who have been hired by contract and hold an employment card may t rans fer to their country of origin their net basic pay. There is a basic tourist allocation up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each trip to countries outside the French Franc Area. Travelers to those countries on business may obtain an amount in excess of the above limit for bona fide living expenses, the amount depending on the destination and the duration of the trip. Transfers of earnings f rom capital invested in Gabon by foreign companies or foreign physical persons require prior approval by the Exchange O f f ice; for investments regis- tered under the Investment Code, such transfers are always permitted upon production of documentary evidence. Persons having the status of residents and traveling to other coun- tries in the French Franc Area may take out any amount of CFA banknotes or French banknotes. When traveling to other countries, they may take fcut banknotes up to a maximum of F 1,000 in French f rancs or CFAF 75,000 or CFPF 75,000 in legal tender CFA or CFP notes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign notes and coins up to the amounts declared when they entered the country, minus the amounts of French Franc Area banknotes that are taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. For exports to all other countries licenses, wh ich are issued freely, are requ ired; exceptions are cocoa, timber, and manganese, for which only an exchange commitment (engagement de change) must be approved by the Exchange Office. Gold and uran ium may be exported only to France. The exporter undertakes to repatriate the export proceeds within a period of 180 days f rom the date of arrival of the goods at their destination. When settlement is made in a currency other than a French Franc Area currency, the exporter must surrender it on the Paris exchange market within three months fo l low ing settlement. Exporters may retain, however, a part of their export proceeds (depending on the country of destination) in special, non transferab le EFAC accounts (Exportations-Frais Accessories), which may be used by the exporters themselves to make payments abroad for export promotion expenses and for modernization and expansion needs of their industries. The portion that may be retained is 15 per cent for earnings accruing in U.S. or Canadian dollars, and 8 per cent for receipts in other currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles received from countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services from 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected and must be surrendered w i th in one month of receipt. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic or fore ign banknotes or coins (except gold co ins). Capital Capital movements between Gabon and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of control; those between Gabon and other countries are subject to authorization. Under the Investment Code promulgated on December 4, 1961, any enterprise established in Gabon, whether domestic or fo re ign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption f rom direct taxes on specific income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferen t ial treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Gabon; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union (the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, Congo (B r a z z a v i l l e ), and Gabon ). Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. The gran t ing of any one of the three kinds of p re fe ren t ial treatment automatically includes the application of specified exemptions f rom direct taxes which are granted under the provisions of other existing legislation. Requests for approval of p re fe ren t ial treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Na t ional Economy, who, a f ter exam in ing the docu- ments, transmits them to the Investment Commission. A f ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. P re fe ren t ial treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by a decision of the Executive Committee of the Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. Foreigners who are not nationals of a country of the French Franc Area are permitted to repatriate their capital, provided that they have settled their taxes and provided that the foreign investment regime is applicable to them. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Foreigners leaving Gabon permanently may take out up to CFAF 250,000 in fore ign exchange, provided that they sign a statement to the effect that they are not re tu rn ing to the French Franc A rea; three months a f ter their return to their country of origin they may obtain the t rans fer of their total bank balances in Gabon. Changes during 1965 February 23. All payments to countries outside the French Franc Area became subject to a charge of 0.4 per cent. March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the b i la teral payments agreement between France and Ruman ia, wh ich was also applicable to Gabon, was terminated. March 19. The charge of 0.4 per cent on payments to countries outside the French Franc Area was abolished. August 1. Further imports f rom EEC countries other than France were freed f rom quantitative restrictions. NOTE.—The fo l low ing developments took place early in 1966: January 1. The treaty establishing the Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) between Cameroon and the members of the Equatorial Customs Union ( the Central A f r i c an Repub l ic, Chad, Congo (B razzav i l le ), and Gabon) entered into effec t. January 1. The import allocation for certain Far Eastern countries (taken as a group) was increased f rom 30 per cent to 40 per cent of total quotas established for all countries outside the French Franc Area. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY 1 Exchange System The par value is Deutsche Mark 4.00 = US$1. The o f f ic ial limits established by the Deutsche Bundesbank for its dealings with banks are DM 3.97 buying, and DM 4.03 selling, per US$1. For the banks' transactions with the ir customers, these rates are considered as m idd le rates wh ich can be exceeded by buy ing or selling marg ins, The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins. Market rates for certain other currencies vary between limits which result f rom combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. do l lar ma in- tained by Germany 2 and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. All other currencies are also admitted to market quotations in Germany. Premiums and discounts on fo rw a rd exchange transactions are l e ft to the interplay of market forces. There are no restrictions on fore ign exchange dea l ings by residents or nonresidents. There are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements. Residents are not required to repatriate or surrender their fore ign exchange earnings or holdings, wh ich may be he ld in Germany or abroad at the choice of the ho lder. Accoun ts in deutsche mark or in any fore ign currency may be held in Germany by any nonresident. Balances on these accounts may be transferred f ree ly to any account and used for any payment in Germany or abroad, including the purchase of any fore ign cu r rency; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment. However, credit balances on nonresident accounts, except savings accounts of ind iv idual persons, may carry interest only if a special license has been granted. Such licenses are given to all credit institutions for the payment of interest on customers' balances held as cover for letters of c red i t; otherwise, licenses are given in exceptional cases only. The Federal Repub l ic of Germany accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as f rom February 15,1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Off ice for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur 1In view of a change that took place on Janua ry 1. 1966 (see note at the end of this su rvey ), this survey presents the position as at th at date. 2 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (Wes t). 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY gewerbliche Wirtschaft), the Federal Off ice for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt fur Erndhrung und Forstwirtschaft), Import and Storage Agencies (Einfuhr- und Vorratsstellen) , and the Land Ministries of Economics. The Deutsche Bundesbank is pr imar i ly the authority in charge of exchange control for certain capital transactions. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out fo re ign exchange transactions. Imports and Import Payments Quantitative restrictions are not app l ied to imports of most com- modities purchased f rom and or ig ina t ing in countries outside the Sino-Soviet b loc; out of a total of some 6,900 items, 6,600 may be imported f ree ly f rom those countries. In add i t ion, some 150 items are l ibera l ized for imports or ig ina t ing in European OECD countries and their dependent territories. Certain solid fu e ls are l ibe ra l ized only when purchased and imported f rom other member coun tr ies of the European Coal and Steel Commun i ty. Impor ts f r om all sources of about 160 tariff items (sugar, cereals, ca t t le, certain meat and meat products, milk, and edible f a t s) are con tro l led by v ir tue of the German Marke t ing Laws, unless they are covered by EEC ma rket regulations and there- fo re are f r ee f rom quan t i ta t ive restriction (at present, wheat and po rk ). Imports f ree of quan t i ta t ive restriction are not sub ject to licensing, and no prior control is exercised over such impor ts; however, an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundesbank, wh ich serves as documentation for customs control and for statistical purposes, is required. For imports still sub ject to quan t i ta t ive restriction (w i th certain exceptions, such as books, maps, etc., and small parcels through the pos t ), an ind iv idual import license is requ ired. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or account may be taken of conditions of pr ice, de l ivery, qua l i ty, etc., or of the total va lue of applications in relation to the quotas established for specified commodities. For m anu f a c tu r ed goods, the period of validity of the license is usually six months, but it may be extended in certain cases (e.g., heavy mach ine ry) to a period necessary for the production of the goods. For agr icu l tural produc ts the usual period is also six mon ths; however, for seasonal imports, it may be shorter. No fees are charged for licenses to import manu fac tu red goods. Payments for imports are f r e e, even if the unde r ly ing import trans- action is still restricted. Commodity fu tu r es may be dealt in f ree ly. Transit trade transactions may, in pr inc ip le, be carried out f r e e l y; but when they involve certain countries, they are subject to certain conditions. 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly without individual license. German and fore ign notes and coins and other means of pay- ment may be exported free ly. The fo l low ing transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the char ter ing of fore ign ships f rom residents of specified countries; the use of fore ign boats in certain inland waterways t r a f f i c; transactions with specified countries (wh ich do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insu rance; the production of motion pictures in association with nonresidents; and certain contracts with nonresidents pertaining to motion-picture films.3 Exports and Export Proceeds With few exceptions, export transactions may be carried out f ree ly. For all goods, only an export no t if ica t ion, for statistical purposes, is required. Certain exports —mostly strategic goods —are sub ject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise. control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Claims exceed- ing DM 10,000 that have been overdue for more than three months must be reported, for statistical purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles With few exceptions, services pe r fo rmed for nonresidents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of Eastern bloc countries of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manu fac tu re, in so far as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of payments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of such services have to be reported. 3 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition f rom nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German- synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any kind originating in Eastern bloc countries, and the acceptance of film services f rom Eastern bloc countries. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported f ree ly. Capital Residents and nonresidents may import or export capital f ree ly without a license. However, domestic money market paper (Treasury bills, etc.) and domestic fixed-interest-bearing securities —if in the latter case the contracts contain an obligation to reacquire the securi- ties later at a definitely fixed pr ice —may not be sold to nonresidents without an individual license. Securities of all types may be imported or exported free ly. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on legacies located abroad and inherited by residents. Changes during 1965 January 1. Imports f rom Japan corresponding to 8 additional ta r i ff items were l ibe ra l ized, and quotas on 20 other ta r i ff items were increased. December 15. Imports of tobacco and sugar f rom Rhodesia were prohibited. NOTE. —The fo l low ing change took place early in 1966: January 1. The amount beyond which export claims overdue for more than three months must be reported was raised f rom DM 3,000 to DM 10,000. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Cedi 1 = US$1.16667. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, wh ich is 0 1=£ stg. 0. 8s. 4d. The cedi circulates concurrently with the Ghana pound, which is being with- drawn f rom circulation at a rate of 0 2.40 = £G 1. The Bank of Ghana does not quote rates other than for the pound sterling; it deals in sterling at rates w i th in % of 1 per cent on either side of parity, the statutory limits being % of 1 per cent on either side of parity. For other currencies, the commercial banks in Accra base their rates on the current London market rates plus the exchange charge of % of 1 per cent levied on sterling transactions and a brokerage fee of % of 1 per cent. The authorized banks may exchange Ghana ian cur- rency for any fore ign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, under the cha i rmansh ip of the Governor of the Bank of Ghana, is responsible for drawing up an annual fore ign exchange budget. The Ministry of Trade prepares an import and export p lan, which is subject to approval by the Cabinet. The over-all import plan must correspond to .the import ceiling set by the Foreign Exchange Committee. The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade is empowered, on behalf of the Ministry of Trade, to prohibit or regulate the import and export of all goods. Open general licenses, other import licenses, and other export licenses are granted by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Applications for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate ministry o r' government agency for endorse- ment as fo l lows: all government departments through the Office of the P lann ing Comm iss ion; state or semistate indus tr ial enterprises through the State Enterprises Secretariat; State Farms Corporations, the ag r icu l tu ral b ranch of the Workers Brigade, and the United Ghana Farmers Council Cooperatives through the Ministry of Ag r icu l tu re; and industrialists in the pr iva te sector through the Ministry of Indus- tries. Applications that have been endorsed by the competent ministry or agency are then fo rw a rd ed to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the Ministry of Trade. An exception is made for applications by the private sector for the import of consumer goods as well as for 1In view of certain changes that took place early in 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the situation on January 17, 1966. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA applications by the Na t ional Trad ing Corporation and similar state trad ing agenc ies; such applications are submitted directly to the Ministry of Trade. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana admin- isters the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and cap i ta l. Permitted fore ign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Ghana is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settle- ments between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in cedis through Sterling Area accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Au thor ized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in cedis to the credit of a Foreign Accoun t, in sterling to the credit of an External Accoun t, or in any foreign currency. Receipts f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in cedis f rom a Foreign Accoun t, in sterling f rom an External Accoun t, or in any non-Sterling Area currency which is free ly exchangeable for sterling or cedis. However, settlements related to transac t ions covered by bilateral trade and payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.2 Nonresident Accounts Accounts in cedis held by residents of countries w i th in the Sterling Area are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with au thor ized payments by residents of Gh an a, with trans- fe rs f rom Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area countries, for t ran s fe rs to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accoun ts in cedis held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Ghana are desig- 2 Ghana ma in ta ins such agreements w i th the fo l low ing countries (the clearing accounts are denom ina ted in Ghana pounds unless otherwise n o t e d ): Albania, Bu lga r ia, Ma in land Ch ina, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Eastern Germany, Gu inea (U.S. do l la r s ), Hungary, Israel (s te r l ing ), Ma l i, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., United Arab Repub l ic (s te r l ing ), Upper Volta, and Yugoslavia. The agreement w i th Dahomey is at present inoperative. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA nated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is sub ject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area countries, with transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of fore ign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident accounts ma in ta ined /under the provisions of bilateral payments agreements are called "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with au thor ized payments by residents of Sterling Area countries, with t ran s fe rs f rom Foreign Accounts, with payments received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries, and w i th proceeds f rom sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodes ian pounds. They may be debited for au tho r ized payments to residents of Ghana, for transfers to other Territorial Accounts related to the same country, and for transfers to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of another category, the purpose of wh ich is to receive f u n ds that are not p laced at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capital proceeds. These may be debited for au tho r ized payments, inc lud ing the purchase of approved securities. Imports and Import Payments A large part of the import trade is carried out through the state- owned Ghana ian National Trad ing Corporation or similar state trad- ing agencies. Other goods are imported by private importers who must be registered. Certain imports are prohibited. There are four open general licenses which permit the free import f rom any country of a few commodities (such as trade samples, personal or household e f fec ts, gifts, and books). All other imports require individual licenses, which are issued within the limits of the import plan. Individual licenses are of two k inds: specific and special unnumbe red licenses. All goods not covered by an open general license must be covered by a specific license, but where sa t isfac tory evidence can be produced to the effect that payment for such goods has been made and the re fo re no t r an s f er of foreign exchange is involved, they can be imported under "special unnumbered licenses." A special fo re ign exchange allocation is pro- vided for imports f rom b i la teral paymen ts agreement countries with centrally planned economies; a specified proportion of annual imports must be obtained f rom these currencies. A license fee of 1 per cent is payable on the value of the goods specified in each license. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Additional import licenses, wh ich are nontransferable, may be granted under an export incentive scheme to m a n u f a c t u r e rs exporting locally made goods, inc lud ing goods incorpora t ing imported raw materials or componen ts; licenses issued are rep lacemen t, assistance, or bonus licenses (see Exports and Export Proceeds, b e l ow ). Licenses for imports f rom bilateral payments agreement countries specify the bilateral partner country f rom wh ich the commod i ty has to be imported; licenses to import f rom countries outside the bilateral account group are valid for any of these countries. Licenses are nor- mally issued on a c . i . f. basis but are endorsed to the e f fect that insurance must be covered in Ghana. Imports f rom Rhodes ia, South A f r i c a, South West A f r i c a, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not permitted. Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted f ree ly by authorized banks. Imports by the private sector under ind iv idual licenses have to be f inanced on the basis of sight or acceptance docu- mentary credits established by the importer with a commercial bank in Ghana. The opening of all import letters of credit requires the approval of the Bank of Ghana. Impor ters are requ ired to deposit with the Bank of Ghana a m in imum of 15 per cent of the va lue of letters of credit covering impor ts of consumer goods, inc lud ing con- sumer durable goods; the corresponding requirement for industrial raw materials is 5 per cent and that for cap i tal goods 1 per cent. In practice, however, commerc ial banks requ ire importers to make down- payments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Importers are requ ired to deposit w i th the Bank of Ghana 15 per cent of the value of their orders for imports of consumer goods to be f inanced on a collection basis, w i th in 14 days f rom the date of confirmation of the orders. Exchange control approval must be obtained by banks for a credit ce i l ing for the ind iv idu al importer before acceptance documen tary credits are established. Documents against acceptance terms for impor ts va lued at more than 0 360 requ i re exchange control approval be fo re orders are p laced. Many imports are sub ject to a levy of 11.5 per cent on the comb ined amount of c . i . f. va lue, import d u t y, and o ther import charges. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of G h a n a, and documen ta ry evidence must support all applications. The fo l low ing categories of paymen ts are n o rm a l ly au tho r ized in connection with the impor ta t ion of goods: (1) the buy ing commission —this must be du ly endorsed on the import license and the amount 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA of the authorized commission is deducted f rom the value of the import license; (2) the t rans fer of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments, provided that the amount of the bank charges and the buy ing commission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (3) the t rans fer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6% per cent per annum, provided that the license under which the goods are imported has been authorized by the Ministry of Trade and that this Ministry is satisfied with the accep- tance terms. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permitted, provided that the applications are properly documented. Insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghana ian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 50 per cent of their annual earnings, up to a max imum of 0 6,000 a yea r; this quota is intended to cover all personal and fam i ly require- ments and commitments outside Ghana, inc lud ing leave expenses, travel for health purposes, education, g i f ts, insurance premiums, sub- scriptions, and donations. Applications for remittances of income by non-Ghana ian self-employed persons are considered on their ind iv idual merits by the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana. Nonresident companies are permitted to t rans fer abroad free ly their net p ro f i ts, i.e., prof i ts a f ter payment of the prevailing 45 per cent tax on companies and of a 20 per cent withholding tax. The basic annual travel allowance for Ghana ians is 0 50 for each person 18 years of age or over and 0 25 for each person under that age. Foreigners resident in Ghana but domiciled elsewhere in the Sterling Area are allowed up to 0 600 a calendar year out of their personal remittance quota. Exchange for business travel is granted up to 0 25 a day, for a max imum of 7 days. All residents may buy round- trip tickets in Ghana to the country of destination. Residents of any nationality (except children under 2 years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana temporarily by air or sea must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round- trip ticket. Persons leaving Ghana may take with them Ghana ian currency notes and foreign currency notes (including CFA f r a nc notes) together equivalent to 0 120, provided that not more than 0 24 is taken in any one currency. Ghana ian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to 0 24, but may be spent only on Ghana ian a i rc ra ft and ships. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency imported upon entry. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Exports and Export Proceeds There are two open general licenses for exports, covering such articles as trade samples, advertising materials, postage stamps, gifts up to 0 24 in value, luggage, and gold coins commemorating the found- ing of the Republic.3 All other exports require specific licenses f rom the Controller of Imports and Exports prior to shipment. Most items are exported through the Ghana Agr icu l tural Produce Marketing Board. Exports to Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, South West A f r i c a, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohibited. Manufac turers who have exported, or intend to export, goods made in Ghana may obtain non t rans fe rab le import licenses for certain goods required in the production process. Replacement licenses are issued for raw materials and components imported against an import license granted for production for the domestic ma rke t; assistance licenses are available to importers who intend to m anu f a c tu re for export; bonus licenses are granted to those who have exported manu fac tu red goods incorporating raw materials and/or components imported under replacement or assistance licenses or under regular licenses that con- tained an allocation to cover export trade. Exporters are required to collect proceeds f rom their exports within 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in fore ign exchange must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported f r e e l y; CFA f r a nc notes may be sold only to the Bank of Ghana or to an au thor ized bank. Travelers may bring in Ghana ian currency notes and CFA f r a nc notes in any amount, but cedi notes in excess of 0 24 must be declared. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval if repatriation is to be guaranteed. The Capital Investments Act, wh ich was promul- gated in April 1963, provides for the granting of special benefits to specified existing investments as well as to new investments. Under the Act approval may be granted to investments that contribute to the development and u t i l iza t ion of produc t ive capac i ty, the reduction of import requirements, the attainment of a high level of employment, or the acquisition of technical skills by citizens of Ghana. Investments granted "approved status" under this Act obtain a guarantee of the 3 Such coins may be taken out free ly, subject to declaration, by persons who have spent at least six months in Ghana. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA right to t rans fer profits and liquidation proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The Act also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the pub l ic interest, f a ir compensation is to be determined either by voluntary agreement of the parties or through arbitration by the Inter- national Bank for Reconstruction and Development. A Capital Invest- ments Board, whose principal func t ion is to decide wh ich fore ign investments qu a l i fy for benefits under the Act, has been established. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are considered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the t rans fer of f u n ds representing personal assets of fore ign residents in Ghana who retire and re turn to their home country are considered ind iv idua l ly on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal t rans fer of capital is involved. If the amounts involved are very large, their t ran s fer may be author- ized over a period of a few months. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to reinvestment in registered government stocks, Treasury loans, or Treasury bills; the interest accruing on such investments is transfer- able. Applications for the t rans fer abroad of f u n ds by emigrants must be accompanied by appropriate documentation and are also considered on their individual merits. Loan and overdraft fac i l i t ies to resident companies controlled by nonresidents require the individual approval of the exchange control authorities. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad without express permission. In respect of por tfo l io investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Changes during 1965 January 21. A 10 per cent sales tax was levied on many imports. January 21. Import duties on a wide range of manu fac tu red goods were increased. The purchase tax on imported manu fac tu red goods was abolished except for motor vehicles, the tax on which was increased. January 21. A fore ign travel tax was introduced. Residents (irre- spective of nationality) leaving Ghana temporarily by a i rc ra ft or ship 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA were required to pay a tax of 10 per cent on the price of the round-trip ticket. Children under 2 years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel were exempt. February 25. The minimum period of exemption f rom the payment of income tax for investments approved under the Capital Investments Act was reduced f rom five years to one year. March 1. Importers of goods to be financed on a collection basis were required to deposit with the Bank of Ghana 15 per cent of the invoice value, within 14 days f rom the date of confirmation of the order. March 1. Import licenses payab le in convertible currencies were, for most goods, restricted to a deferred payment basis. March 1. The Meat Products Corporation was established to import mea t; in September it was granted a monopoly also over the com- mercial import of live animals. March 31. The 10 per cent sales tax, insofar as it was applicable to imports, was replaced by a levy of 11.5 per cent, calculated on the c . i . f. value plus customs duty and other import charges. May 19. The State Machinery Trading Corporation was set up to import all commercial vehicles and cars, mach inery of all kinds and components, and all spare parts or accessories for any type of vehicle or machinery. The Corporation would carry on the functions of the Ghana Supply Commission. May 19. The State Textiles Corporation was established to import all types of textiles. July 16. The State Machinery Trading Corporation and the State Textiles Corporation ceased operating. It was announced that a Ghana People's Trading Corporation would be established wh ich could import and distribute any type of consumer goods in competition with existing firms. July 19. A new monetary unit, the cedi, was issued to replace the Ghana pound at a rate of 0 2.40=£G 1. The two currencies would circulate concurrently until July 19, 1966. The par value for the cedi was established at 0 1 = US$1.16667. August 23. It was o f f ic ia l ly stated that, except in accordance with existing commitments under trade agreements or payments agreements, cocoa could no longer be exported on a barter basis or against payment in inconvertible currencies. September 17. New regulations were issued concerning the import and export of domestic and fore ign banknotes. September 24- Applications for import licenses for 1966 were invited. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA October 27. The import licensing procedures for 1966 were announced. The special list of commodities that could be imported only from bilateral payments agreement countries was abolished. Four open general licenses for imports from all sources were established, replacing the existing ones. An export-incentive scheme for manufac tured goods was introduced, which provided for the issue of additional import licenses to manu fac tu re rs exporting goods made in Ghana, including goods incorporating imported raw materials or components. A list- was issued of goods for wh ich, save in exceptional circumstances, no import licenses would be issued; these included various kinds of tex- tiles and footwear. November 1. The func t ions of the Exchange Control Committee were taken over by the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana. November 16. Payments to and receipts from Rhodesia were pro- hibited. NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took place early in 1966: January 1. The import licensing procedures announced on October 27, 1965 came into operation. January 7. Imports f rom and exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. January 17. Exchange allocations for tourist and business travel were reduced. The basic travel allowance was cut back f rom 0 120 to 0 50 a year. Exchange for business travel would be granted up to 0 25 a day for a maximum of seven days. January 17. Imports valued at more than 0 360 and payable on documents against acceptance terms required prior exchange control approval. All applications for the opening of import letters of credit required the prior approval of the Bank of Ghana. The deposit require- ments for such credits were extended to imports of industrial raw materials and to capital goods, for wh ich deposits of 5 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively, had to be made. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System The par value is Greek Drachmas 30.00 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Dr 29.90 buying, and Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Greece and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, the Currency Committee, and the Foreign Trade Board. Exchange control is implemented and applied, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and author- ized commercial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent ministry. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are made on the basis of the origin or destination of the goods and services involved or in the currency and manner provided for by trade and payments agreements. Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements are made through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account.1 Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible currency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresidents Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies, with authorized payments by residents of Greece for imports or services payable in convertible currencies, and with transfers f rom other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit 1 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal and some settlements with Spain are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a bilateral account for settlement with Chile of trade in specified commodities. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Accounts, and for the purchase and t ran s fer abroad of any convertible currency. Any w i thdrawal f rom drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of fore ign exchange w i thdrawa ls into drachmas entail the loss of the conversion right of the sums w i thdrawn. The max imum rate of interest on such accounts is I1/? per cent per annum. Nonresident investors en joy ing the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see section on Capital, below) may also establish time deposits, for a m in imum period of six months and with a m in imum deposit in convertible currencies equivalent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of between 5 per cent and 6 per cent, and principal and interest are freely transferab le at maturity in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 200 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, balances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000, purchases of securities o f f ic ia l ly listed on the stock exchange in Greece, and purchases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that his account had been opened before December 31, 1963 and the money deposited was derived f rom general revenue sources; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released sem iannua l ly for remittance by each account holder, from accounts opened a f ter Janua ry 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively f rom rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may also be t rans fe r red abroad with the prior approval of the Bank of Greece. Blocked balances may be deposited with a commercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities f rom all sources are prohibited or suspended. All imports, other than those with an invoice va lue c . i .f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less for wh ich payment w i ll be made through an authorized bank, requ ire approval. For most imports, prior approval is requ ired; however, for certain commodities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without prior approval. The gran t ing of an import license implies the allocation of appropriate foreign exchange. Apart f rom imports for wh ich special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to private imports, ma in ly for statistical purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE imports f rom countries par t ic ipa t ing in the European Monetary Agree- ment (EMA) when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally convertible European cu r rency; (2) for imports from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in f ree dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement au thor iza t ions under U.S. a id; (3) for imports f rom countries with wh ich Greece has concluded bilateral payments agreements when payment is to be made through the relevant clearing account; and (4) for imports f rom Cyprus when payment is made in f ree Cyprus pounds or through one of the EMA countries. No license is necessary under procedure E, but import applications wh ich have been approved by an au thor ized bank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions concerning the terms of shipment, method of settlement, terms of payment, etc. For all goods that do not require a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of commodities in List A (certain luxury items, textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain food s tu f f s, inc lud ing rice) and List B (ce r ta in types of mach inery and spare pa r t s ). Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, narcotics, wheat and flour, su lphur, and motion pictures, as well as barter trans- actions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of applying regulations concerning payments for imports and advance deposit requirements, all private imports are classified in nine lists (P-3, P-6, F, F-50/1-3, and F-100/1-3). Pay- ments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping documents, or by accep tance of time d r a f ts (wh ich is permitted only for goods in Lists P-3 and P-6, the time limit be ing three months for List P-3 and one year for List P-6, except for mach ine ry and spare parts, for which the time limit is three y e a r s ). The Ministry of Com- merce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in any one of the nine lists. When time d r a f ts are accepted, a personal written undertaking amounting to 4 per cent (List P-6) or 8 per cent (List P-3) of the amount of the d r a ft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made within the prescribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE In addition, for those imports included in Lists F-100/1-3, fu r ther cash deposits of 26-40 per cent of the c . i .f. value are required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under procedure E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is ob ta ined; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made w i th in 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time d ra f t s. When payments for imports are to be made against sight d ra f ts, advance deposits in cash are required for pr iva te imports inc luded in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3.2 Advance deposits are the same for all countries. They are calculated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment required when applying for an import approval and an advance (security) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt f rom import duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-50/3 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 List F-100/3 Prepayment Security In per cent of invoice value 20 18 14 40 36 28 50 45 35 100 903 70 Total 70 63 49 140 126 98 For goods imported and cleared through customs in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced to one ha lf of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are financed with U.S. aid fund s, a fu r ther deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in f a v o r . of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as specified above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank (1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days ( for Athens and the Piraeus area) or 20 days ( f or the provinces) of obtaining the import approva l, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods and advance deposits are refunded. 2 Commodities not included in these lists, or in Lists A, B, P-3, P-6, or F, are subject to the advance deposit requ iremen ts applicable to goods on List F-50/3. 3 The required prepayment is 76 per cent for ham and European-type cheese. 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Advance payments may be made to fore ign suppliers for all imports against delivery of shipping documents or against a letter of under- taking issued by a fore ign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Except for goods on List P-6, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six months and arrive in Greece within nine months a f ter the date of import approval. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval, but this is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (shipping, aviation, merchandise transport, and fire) or reinsurance (acc ident and l i f e) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Greek residents going abroad for fam i ly reasons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to US$200 for each tr ip and for any number of trips a year. Exporters and m anu f a c tu r e rs are allowed US$20 a day for a max imum of 45 days when they travel to the United States, Canada, or the Far Eas t; for all other countries the allowance is US$15 a day for a max imum of 30 days. Requests for larger amounts or f rom other businessmen, commercial representatives, etc., are sub- mitted to the Foreign Exchange Subcommittee. Persons trave l ing abroad may take with them a maximum of Dr 200 in Greek banknotes. Nonresident travelers ho ld ing Greek passports are required to dec lare their fo re ign exchange when leaving Greece if the amount of such exchange exceeds US$500 or its equ iva len t; no declaration is required f rom holders of fo re ign passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of arms to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports require ind iv idual licenses, but most exports are f ree of quan t i ta t ive limitation. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 150 days f rom the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the authorities are empowered to extend this period up to two years for manu fac tu res and up to one year for other commodities. The Ministry of Commerce may license barter transactions involving the export of tobacco, certain types of f ru i t, or w ine; such transactions are only permitted with Ma in- land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, I ran, Israel, and Poland. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be sur- rendered. Exchange proceeds f rom shipping are exempt f rom the 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE surrender requirement, but shipowners have to pay for supplies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of fore ign exchange to the Bank of Greece. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Dr 200 in Greek banknotes in denominations of Dr 50 and Dr 100 only. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to prior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on departure or spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. Greek residents returning to Greece must declare the foreign exchange in their possession. Non- resident travelers of foreign nationality need not declare their holdings of fore ign exchange at the time of entering the country, and nonresidents holding Greek passports are required to declare their fore ign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again fore ign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and investment banks may f ree ly borrow con- vertible currencies abroad, provided that they lend corresponding amounts as foreign currency loans for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises established in Greece. All other investments in Greece by nonresidents are sub ject to approval. Such approval is automatic for purchases of real estate for personal use. Under Legisla- tive Decree No. 2687/53, approved fore ign investments wh ich aim at the promotion of national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferen t ial treatment. Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, fu r ther privileges are provided for fore ign cap i tal par- ticipating in investment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 60 million in value. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation fac i l i t ies for fore ign investments which promote exports. Repatriation facilities are as fo l lows: (1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legislation mentioned above may not be repatriated before one year f rom the date the enterprise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year f rom the date the capital was imported. (2) The repatriation of foreign capital may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of dividends on equity capital and of interest on loan capital may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, provided, however, that the amount of profits transferred shall 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE not exceed 8 per cent of the fore ign exchange earnings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the t rans fer of profits is related to the residual capital rema in ing in Greece and the t rans fer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise f rom the sale of its products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legisla- tive Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the fore ign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations f rom the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investment may also be granted p re fe r- ential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. Changes during 1965 March 1. Interest rates on nonresidents' time deposits established under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 were increased f rom 4.5 per cent to 5 per cent for deposits of 6-12 months, f rom 5 per cent to 5.5 per cent for deposits of 1-2 years, and f rom 5.5 per cent to 6 per cent for deposits for longer periods. March 13. The amount of domestic banknotes wh ich travelers could bring in or take out was reduced f rom Dr 2,000 to Dr 200 a person. Any amount brought into Greece in excess of Dr 200 by nonresident travelers was required to be deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Greece, however, the notes could be re-exported on departure or blocked balances could be spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. March 21. The requirements were announced that newly established banks would have to meet. Foreign capital participation was restricted to 40 per cent of the share capital and dividend transfers to fore ign shareholders to 3 per cent a year. 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE April 16. The granting of installment credit fac i l i t ies for passenger automobiles, motorcycles, and certain other consumer durab le goods was prohibited. May 1. The cash deposits payable at the time of import approval for certain goods in List F-100/2 were reduced to 76 per cent; these goods were ham (salted, dried, smoked, and prepared or preserved) and European-type cheese. June 15. The approval of the Bank of Greece or the intermediary authorized bank was no longer required for imports with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less, provided that payment would be made through an authorized bank. June 15. Security deposits were no longer required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt f rom customs duty by virtue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. October 24- Imports of beef and live cattle were suspended. November 1. The initial adjustments in the import tar iff toward alignment with the common external tariff of the EEC were made. The third successive 10 per cent tar iff cut on imports from EEC countries of industrial products subject to tariff dismantlement over a 12-year period was made. The initial 10 per cent enlargement of the value quotas on imports f rom the EEC of some types of machinery was made. The prepayment and security deposit requirements on imports f rom all sources of goods in Lists F-50/3 and F-100/3 were reduced. The 12 per cent security deposit requirement for certain imports financed by letter of credit was abolished. November 2. Imports of pork and live pigs were suspended. November 29. Exports of arms to Rhodesia were prohibited. December 1. Authorized banks could accept a new type of time deposit in foreign exchange for periods of at least 3 months. These deposits were not restricted as to amount or type of depositor. The interest rate was 4 per cent for deposits for 3-6 months; 4.5 per cent for those for 6-12 months; 5 per cent for those for 12-24 months; and 5.5 per cent for those for longer periods. December 15. Commercial banks and investment banks were per- mitted to grant loans in foreign currency for periods of at least five years to productive enterprises in Greece, provided that the lending bank took up at least the same amount abroad; foreign currency loans granted by commercial banks could not be for amounts less than the equivalent of US$400,000 and required the prior approval of the Currency Committee. 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE December 21. Agreement was reached on the settlement of the Greek share of the debts of the former Ottoman empire. December 22. The f ree market for gold coins was abolished. Hence- fo r th, residents could buy gold coins only in the off ic ial market created in Janua ry 1964, which operates through licensed stockbrokers. Resi- dent purchasers must iden t i fy themselves and sign a statement to the effect that such coins would only be resold to licensed stockbrokers. The price of the gold sovereign was initially set at Dr 328 (US$10.93) for sales and Dr 327.50 for repurchases. Holders of gold coins could sell them anonymously and without fo rma l i ty to the Bank of Greece or authorized commercial banks at the off ic ial rate, provided that they were acquired in the previously existing f ree market. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is Gua tema lan Quetzal 1.00 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Q 1.00 buying, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other cu r renc ie sx on the basis of their rates in the New York market. On Janua ry 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Guatemala (Exchange Depar tmen t) under the d irec t ion of the Mone tary Board. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Gua tema la; those of the private sector are carried out through the medium of au thor ized banks for the account of the Monetary Stabilization Fund maintained by the Bank of Gua tema la. Prescription of Currency All exchange transac t ions must be carr ied out through banks. Pay- ments to Costa R ica, El Salvador, Honduras, and N ica ragua in respect of trade and invisibles are norma l ly settled in Guatemalan quetzales through the Camara de Compensacion Cen troamer icana, a c lear ing- house established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Gua tema la, however, is empowered to authorize the sale of currencies of other Central American countries to make payments to the Central Ame r ican area. There are no obliga- tions prescribing the cu r rency for payments to and f rom other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not requ ired except for imports of maps of Gua tema la, explosives, pou l t ry, and wheat flour. Within eight days a f t er con f i rma t ion, impo r te rs must register with the Exchange Depart- ment any f irm order to import me rchand i se. (Impor ts o r ig ina t ing f rom Central Ame r ican coun t r ies and inc luded in the General Treaty for Central Amer ican Economic Integration are exempt f r om this require- 1 Belgian f ranc s, C a n a d i an do l la r s, deu t sche m a rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas. Swedish k rone r, and Swiss francs. 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA ment.) Importers must e f fect the ir registered imports du r ing the 90-day validity of the registration. All remittances abroad to pay for imports require exchange licenses, which are granted free ly by the Exchange Depar tmen t; the exchange is granted by the authorized banks upon submission of the registration form and the sh ipp ing documents. Checks denominated in quetzales are authorized f ree ly for payment for specified imports f rom Central American countries. Payments for imports wh ich have to be fu l ly or par t ia l ly prepaid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impos- sible to establish a letter of credit and the prepayment exceeds Q 1,000, a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of fore ign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank in cash or in government bonds by importers who are not estab- lished importers in the country or who are unab le to provide sufficient proof of the na ture of the t ransac t ion; the deposit is re funded when the goods arrive in Gua tema la. Importers of merchand ise for which payment must be made in cash or in installments, and importers of merchandise on consignment, must present the or ig inal shipping documents usually required by the Guatemalan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to w i thdraw imports f rom customs must be obtained f rom the Exchange Department or an authorized bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed advertising ma ter ia l, and those imports or ig ina t ing in Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. The Exchange Department and the authorized banks issue such au thor iza t ions w i thout delay. The customs officials may re fuse c learance of goods if discrepancies are found between the informa t ion contained in the authorization issued by the Exchange Department and in the import documents. For the specified imports f rom Central Amer ican countries, the importer must complete, at either the Exchange Department or the customs off ice, a special form required by the Exchange Depar tmen t, giving a description of the merchandise to be imported and the date on wh ich he made the advance payment or the date on wh ich he undertook to pay in the future. If these fo rms are completed at the customs off ice, they must be forwarded daily to the Exchange Department. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs du ty may be applied to products originating in or imported f rom countries with which Guatemala has an unfavorab le trade balance. On December 31, 1965, this surcharge applied to certain imports f rom 28 countries.2 This 2 Australia, Borneo, Ceylon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Finland, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Malagasy Republic, Malaysia, 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA surcharge is waived if the goods are transported in Gua tema lan ships. Moreover, all imports f rom other areas wh ich are included in the agreed u n i f o rm ta r i ff list of the countries pa r t ic ipa t ing in the General Treaty for Central Amer ican Economic Integration are exempt f rom the surcharge. Payments for Invisibles All t rans fe rs abroad on account of current invisibles require author- ization by the Exchange Department, ma in ly for the purpose of check- ing capital transactions. Payments of up to Q 1,000 to El Salvador or up to Q 200 to Costa R ica, Honduras, and N icaragua do not require authorization by the Exchange Department. Requests for fo re ign exchange for payments for current invisibles must be supported by such documents as may be required by the Exchange Department to v e r i fy that the operation is genuine. The sale of fo re ign exchange for most categories of current invisibles, inc lud ing remittances of income f rom and repayments of registered fore ign loans and investments, is au thor ized f ree ly. For certain payments for current invisibles, exchange is sold up to established l im i ts; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are approved. There is an exchange a l lowance equivalent to a max imum of Q 2,500 a person in any one year for tourist travel abroad, as fo l lows: to Central America, Q 300; to Mexico, Panama, and the Caribbean area, Q 750; and to the rest of the world, Q 2,500. Minors not traveling alone are entitled to ha lf these allowances. The exchange allocation for travelers on business is Q 750 a person for jou rn eys to British Honduras and the Mexican border towns, and Q 2,500 for jou rn eys to other parts of the world. The exchange allocation for rem i t tances abroad for fam i ly maintenance is Q 250 a month for each relative (Q 200 for those under 18 years of a g e ), up to a maximum of Q 700 a month for each bene- ficiary f am i ly. Foreign techn ical personnel employed in Gua tema la may remit abroad up to two th i rds of the ir salaries if the ir fam i l ies reside abroad, or up to one th i rd if the ir fam i l ies reside in Gua tema la. Foreign techn ic ians leaving the country permanen t ly may, subject to ind iv idual approval, t rans fer their savings up to the f u ll amount of their earnings in Gua tema la. Limits are also imposed on remittances for students' expenses abroad. The export of Gua tema lan banknotes and coins is not proh ib i ted; however, Gua tema lan banknotes and coins received f rom abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Mexico, Morocco, Mozamb ique, Ne the r land s, Pak is tan, Ph i l ipp ines. Portugal, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, United Arab Repub l ic, United Kingdom, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, or N icaragua. For these countries, the Bank of Guatemala guarantees monthly conversions into U.S. dollars up to the fo l low ing limits: Costa Rica, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 400,000; Honduras, Q 300,000; and N ica ragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations p roh ib i t ing the export of fo re ign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports requ ire an export license f rom the Exchange Department of the Bank of Gua tema la. Exports to Central Amer ican countries ol goods included in the General Treaty for Cen tral Amer ican Economic Integration are exempt f r om this requ i remen t; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special fo rm required by the Exchange Department presen t ing evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an au thor ized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a f u ll description of the na tu re of the transac t ion, inc lud ing the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Department issues licenses only if cer ta in cond i t ions have been met: (1) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires ev idence that the export proceeds have been sold to an au thor ized b a n k; (2) for exports on credit, it requ ires an unde r tak ing to sell the re levant exchange to an au thor ized bank w i th in 90 days of the date the license is issued; and (3) for exports on cons ignmen t, it requ ires the exporter's certified dec lara t ion show ing the estimated va lue of the export and his under- tak ing to sell the relevant exchange to an au thor ized bank w i th in a period not exceeding 180 days a f t er the issuance of the license. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be declared and surrendered. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by authorized banks is limited to 0 500 a person. Capital All fore ign capital investments in Gua tema la must be declared and registered with the Exchange Depar tment of the Bank of Gua tema la. All investment by fo re ign, domestic, or fo re ign -con t ro l led companies in the construction of pr iva te hous ing in Gua tema la requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy; such investment may be limited to a specified over-all amount a year, it must meet certain m in imum quality and financing s tandards, and the sales va lue of a housing un it must not exceed Q 6,000. All outgoing capital payments requ ire exchange licenses, wh ich, like those for the t r an s f er of prof i ts and dividends, are granted f ree ly for remittances of registered fore ign 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA investments. Transfers abroad of resident-owned capital are not permitted. Changes during 1965 No s ign if icant changes took p lace du r ing 1965. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency ( in troduced on March 1, 1960) is the Gu inean f r a n c, defined as a mone tary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. It corresponds to GF 50 = 1 French f r a nc and GF 246.853 = US$1. The o f f ic ial buying and selling rates are GF 247 and GF 253 per US$1, respectively. These rates apply to all transactions and inc lude a bank commission. Clearing account transactions under b i la te ral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of GF 246.853 per US$1. Administration of Control The Central Bank of the Repub l ic of Guinea is the only authority in exchange control ma t ters; this authority is carried out through the Exchange Control Office of the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. All settlements with foreign countries, inc lud ing payments for imports, require ind iv idual licenses f rom the Exchange Control Office. Import and export licenses are issued, within the f ramewo rk of an annual program, by the Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks (the Office of the Director of Foreign Trade) a f ter app l ica t ions have been screened by the Na t ional Economic Commission. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by b i la teral pay- ments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settle- ments with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accoun ts: Nonresident Trans- fe rab le Accounts in Foreign Currenc ies; Nonresident T ran s fe rab le Accounts in Gu inean F rancs; and Blocked Accounts. Balances in Blocked Accounts, wh ich are maintained in Guinean f rancs, represent f u n ds held with commercial banks by nonresidents 1 Guinea maintains b i la teral payments agreements with the fo l low ing coun t r ies: Albania, Algeria, Bu lgar ia, Ma in land Ch ina, Cuba, Czechos lovak ia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Hungary, No r th Korea. Lebanon. Ma l i, Morocco, Poland, Senegal, Sierra Leone, U.S.S.R., United Arab Repub l ic, No r th Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia. There is also an inope ra t ive paymen ts agreement w i th Liberia and a clearing arrangement w i th a private firm established in Switzerland. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA when their businesses were nationalized. When the commercial banks were liquidated, these balances were transferred to the Credit National, the pr inc ipal government-owned deposit bank. No regulations have yet been issued to permit debits to Blocked Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports, other than those for the Seven-Year Plan, require individual licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks, a f ter applications have been screened and approved by the Na t ional Economic Commission. Once an import license has been issued, authorization for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Imports by fore ign con- cession holders require import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. Imports into Guinea are made w i th in the framework of an annual import program. This program is prepared jo in t ly by the Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks and the Ministry of Domestic Trade on the basis of the country's import needs, the domestic production possibilities of import substitutes, and experience with the previous year's import program. The program requires the approval of the National Economic Commission, which takes into consideration the amount of imports foreseen under the program, the sources of imports, and the availability of convertible currencies and of balances under payments agreements. Certain items are imported outside the import program. These are goods for which fore ign exchange is derived f rom sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea —e.g., imports made by certain foreign concession holders (the Fria Company and the Compagnie Miniere de Conakry) and by foreign embassies —and goods for the Seven-Year Plan. All commercial imports other than those by the Fria Company and the Compagnie Miniere de Conakry are made by state enterprises that specialize in various types of commerce. There is no list of prohibited imports, but certain imports are not being licensed. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the authorization of the Exchange Control Office. Payments for fre ight and insurance in connection with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance with companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist trave l; each application is considered individ- 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA ually. There is a basic allocation for business travel expenses (other than transportation) of GF 15,000 a trip. Government officials on off ic ial missions are permitted an allowance of GF 2,000 a day if they travel in A f r ica and GF 2,500 a day if they travel outside A f r ica. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GF 60,000 for each pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, provided that a doctor's certificate is submitted, Guinean nationals are granted foreign exchange for medical care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of .relatives receiving medical treatment abroad. Individual authorization is required for the payment in Guinea of all fa res for foreign travel. Payments for fam i ly support may be made up to GF 10,000 a month for each beneficiary, whether child or adult. For officially recognized study abroad, the student's relatives may t rans fer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GF 22,500 a month. Students starting their studies abroad are granted an additional foreign exchange allowance of up to GF 30,000. The Foreign Invest- ment Law guarantees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually permitted to be transferred depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise concerned and the Govern- ment. In addition to transfers under other regulations, foreign planters are permitted to t rans fer abroad GF 4 per kilogram of pineapples exported, GF 3 per kilogram of bananas exported, and GF 2 per kilogram of citrus f ru it exported. Expatriate workers employed by the pub l ic sector in Guinea may t rans fer abroad 30 per cent of their net mon th ly salaries if they are married and 20 per cent if they are s ing le; expatriate workers employed by the private sector may transfer abroad 25 per cent of their net monthly salaries if married and 15 per cent if single. The export of Guinean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The Ministry of Foreign Commerce and Banks in cooperation with the Ministry of Domestic Trade establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the Na t ional Economic Commission and the Government. All exports require individual licenses in order (1) to assure the implementation of the export program (particularly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade ag reemen ts ); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., m in ing companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the value of ores expo r ted ); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consumption; and (4) to 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA prevent the export of cap i ta l. Special au tho r iza t ion f rom designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the fo l low ing commodities: wild an ima ls (dead or a l i v e ), edible an ima ls, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewe lry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. Exports other than those e f fec ted by the Fria Company and the Compagnie Miniere de Conakry are made by a state institution, Guinexport. Foreign p lan ters are granted special t ran s fer privileges related to the quantity of pineapples, banana s, or citrus f r u it exported (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above ). All export proceeds must be su r rende red; however, the Fria Com- pany and the Compagnie M in iere de Conakry are allowed to retain a certain percentage ( f or the Fria Company, 66% per cent) of their export earnings to pay for imports and invisibles and for the t ran s fer of capital. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immediately a f ter they are collected. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accru ing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of fo re ign banknotes is permitted f ree ly, sub ject to dec la ra t ion on entry. Nonresidents may re ta in the fore ign banknotes they brought in and may sell them locally to f inance their expenses, whereas Gu inean na t iona ls are required to surrender all fore ign banknotes they b r ing in. The import of Guinean currency is prohibited. Capital All capital t ran s fe rs requ ire authorization. Outward capital t ran s fe rs by Gu inean na t iona ls are p roh ib i ted. The Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 50/AN/62) of April 5, 1962, which replaced the more restrictive one of May 1960, provides guaran- tees against na t iona l iza t ion for fo re ign investments in the industrial and mining sectors; it also provides for p re fe ren t ial tax and customs treatment app l icab le to fo re ign investments and for the t ran s fer of profits, interest, amo r t iza t ion, and proceeds acc ru ing f rom the l iqu ida- tion of such investments. Small and medium-size enterprises in which at least GF 150 million is invested over a 3-year period may receive exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 years may be granted on long-term investments of pa r t icu lar impor tance to the Gu inean economy. The ac tual conditions under which fore ign 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA investments may be made are sub ject to negotiations w i th in the terms of this code. Changes during 1965 April 15. The issuance of import and export licenses was limited to state enterprises and fo re ign concession holders. April 28. The amounts wh ich expa tr ia te workers are permitted to t r an s f er abroad were lowered to 30 per cent of net mon th ly salaries for married workers in the pub l ic sector and 20 per cent for single workers, and to 25 per cent for marr ied workers in the private sector and 15 per cent for single workers. 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is Haitian Gourdes 5.00 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transactions. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the pub l ic are subject to small banking commissions. There are no controls or restrictions on foreign transactions. On December 22, 1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments Although the law provides for the imposition of quantitative restric- tions on imports, none has so far been imposed. Imports of certain types of foo twear and of a few other items are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons. Payments abroad may be made freely. Exports and Export Proceeds A few exports require licenses. Gold coins, bullion, etc., may be exported only by the Na t ional Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The proceeds of exports are not sub ject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. No exchange control requirements are applied to proceeds f rom invisibles. A regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibits the export and import of U.S. bank- notes in denominations of over I Capital Incoming and outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not sub ject to exchange control. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Haiti are required to keep in the fo rm of domestic assets up to 80 per cent of deposits collected f rom residents of Haiti. Changes during 1965 No significant changes took place dur ing 1965. 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is Hondu ran Lempiras 2.00 = US$1. The o f f ic ial rates are L 1.98 buy ing, and L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Banknotes and coins in Costa Rican colones, Gua tema lan quetzales, N icaraguan cordobas, and Sa lvadoran colones are purchased at parity rates minus an o f f ic ial exchange commission of 1 per cent and sold at parity rates plus an off ic ial exchange commission of % of 1 per cent. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on fo re ign paymen ts. Exchange may be purchased f rom local banks w i thout res tr ic t ions; however, f or statisti- cal purposes, buyers are required to file an app l ica t ion stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of fo re ign exchange w ish ing to negotiate the exchange in Hondu ras may do so only w i th the Central Bank of Honduras or through the bank ing system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Honduras no t if ied the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beg inn ing Ju ly 1,1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescr ib ing the method of cu r rency for payments to or f rom nonresidents are imposed. Paymen ts to Costa R ica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, and N ica ragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Hondu ran lempiras th rough the Camara de Compensacion Cen t roame r icana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central Ame r ica to fos ter the process of economic integration of the ir countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Honduran lempiras th rough the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and t rans fe rs abroad may be made f r e e l y; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an app l ica t ion stating how the exchange will be used. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports are not sub ject to exchange control, and the fo re ign exchange may be retained or used for international transactions. Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or through the banking system for account of the Central Bank. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital payments are not subject to exchange control. Changes during 1965 No significant changes took place in 1965. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is Hong Kong Dollars 5.71429 = US$1. The exchange rate system comprises off ic ial rates and f ree market rates; as far as rates for the U.S. dollar are concerned, these are, in practice, within 1 per cent of the par value. On December 31, 1965, rates in the official market were Is. 3%2d. buying, and Is. 21%6d. selling, per HK$1, or HK$5.66% buying, and HK$5.74% selling, per US$1; rates in the free market on that date were HK$5.70% buying, and HK$5.70% selling, per US$1. The off ic ial market rates are those of authorized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed informally by the three note-issuing banks with the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the sterling-foreign currency rates in the London fore ign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the proceeds in U.S. dollars of exports not of local or neighboring origin, and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The f ree market rates apply to other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Financial Secretary of the Colony. Fifty-one banks are authorized to conduct exchange trans- actions within the framework of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are permitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the official market rates. The free market is operated by other banks and financial institutions. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Sterling Area, and all settlements except those through the free market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the exchange regulations, as described in the following paragraphs. Settlements for exports to and imports f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Licenses are required, however, for all payments made from Hong Kong to, or received in Hong Kong f rom, residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, except that authorized banks may free ly make or receive such payments in respect of the fo l low ing: (1) bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories; (2) payments between 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG authorized banks or their branches in the Sterling Area for the purpose of transferr ing bank ing funds to an authorized bank or for the settle- ment of the exchange transactions of an authorized bank; (3) bulk payments in favor of banks or recognized dealers in Hong Kong when the payments are for bona fide f am i ly remittances and no individual payment exceeds HK$8,000; and (4) other payments not exceeding £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies. Payment in Hong Kong dollars for exports to Mainland Ch ina, the Republic of China, and Macao is permitted; imports f rom these terri- tories may be paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Accoun t; see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) without exchange control approval. The proceeds of exports to all other countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in Hong Kong dollars from an External Account, in sterling f rom an External Account held with an authorized bank in the Sterling Area, in a foreign currency emanating f rom outside Hong Kong and freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars (the foreign currency must be surrendered to an authorized b ank ), or by international money order issued outside the Sterling A r e a; however, U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in Ma in land China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao may be sold in the f ree market to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds f rom fre ight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. Payment for imports f rom countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. For merchan t ing transactions by Hong Kong firms in goods bought f rom and sold to countries outside the Sterling Area, outgoing payments may be made in a Sterling Area currency to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign currency, provided that the incoming pay- ment is received in a Sterling Area currency f rom an External Account or in a fore ign currency f rom outside Hong Kong that is freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distinguishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (their accounts being treated the same as accounts of residents of Hong Kong ), those of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area (External Accoun ts), and those of other nonresidents outside the Sterling Area. The accounts of companies and individuals resident outside the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as the accounts of residents, 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG except that, without exchange control permission, they may not be overdrawn or be debited for any payment outside Hong Kong.1 The accounts of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area are termed External Accounts. These may be credited with permitted payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies to authorized banks. They may be debited freely, but they may not normally be overdrawn, and an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain dutiable and dangerous commodities, imports are free of license. If the prescription of currency requirements are fu l f i l led, and if related shipping documents are presented when the value of the consignment exceeds £250, the authorized banks may freely make payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area for imports from the Sterling Area, and to residents of other countries for individual shipments not exceeding £10,000 in value f rom those countries.2 To make payment or establish letters of credit through an authorized bank for imports f rom the dollar area for local consumption or for re-export to Ma in land Ch ina, the Republic of China, or Macao, the importer must surrender to an authorized bank U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars in amounts equivalent to the value of the imports; these currencies may be purchased in the free market. Imports f rom Mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao are normally paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Accoun t ), and exchange control approval is not required. An exchange control fo rm must be submitted for prior approval for payments for imports not covered by the regulations described above. These include (1) imports for wh ich documents are not presented, payment is required in advance of shipment,3 and payment is not in accordance with the usual prescription of currency requirements; (2) goods imported specifically for re-export; and (3) all imports of diamonds, ships, and boats. 1Any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area may apply to the exchange control for special permission to open an External Account. 2 The completion of an exchange control form for imports in excess of £10,000 in one shipment is required principally for reporting and checking purposes; approval is given automatically, provided that the exchange control and import control requirements have been fu l f i l led. 3 Prior approval is not required for advance payments if the consignment does not exceed £250 in value and the payment is not being made more than three months before shipment takes place. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Payments for Invisibles Payments made through authorized banks and not exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, to other parts of the Sterling Area do not require app rova l; for larger amounts, exchange control permission is necessary. The authorized banks have power to approve payments to nonresidents for most invisibles up to certain limits (no exchange control fo rm is required when the payment does not exceed £100 or the equ iva len t ). Payments for invisibles above these limits need the approval of the exchange control, which is normally granted. The basic allowance of exchange at the o f f ic ial rate for residents ( f or exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong trave l ing to countries outside the Sterling Area or beyond Macao is £250 or the equivalent for each ind iv idual jou rney. Applications for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover genuine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control. In any event, payments may be made f ree ly through the f ree market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of certain strategic goods and of such commodities as textiles and garments are sub ject to restrictive licensing. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, Ma in land Ch ina, the Republic of China, and Macao, the exporter must submit to the Department of Commerce and Industry, for approval, a declaration showing how the export proceeds will be collected. If payment is not being received within six months and in accordance with prescription of currency requirements, the circumstances must be reported to the exchange control. The U.S. do l lar proceeds of exports to the do l lar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods or ig ina t ing in Ma in land China, the Republic of Ch ina, Hong Kong, the Repub l ic of Korea, or Macao are free ly disposable to the extent of the f .o .b. value of the goods; proceeds f rom fre ight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, f rom other parts of the Sterling Area require permission. When f re ight and insurance on exports that have originated in Main- land China, the Republic of Ch ina, Hong Kong, the Repub l ic of Korea, or Macao, and that have been financed in U.S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in sterling or in Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must surrender the U.S. dollar proceeds of that freight 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG and insurance at the o f f ic ial market rate. Other exchange receipts from invisibles need not be surrendered. Capital Licenses are required for t rans fe rs abroad of capital in currencies other than the U.S. do l la r; these are granted at the off ic ial market rate only for approved purposes or, if the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank, at the discretion of the local control. Exchange for the repatriation of fore ign capital is normally provided at the o f f ic ial market rate if the exchange control had given prior approval of the investment. Transfers of capital may be made f ree ly in Hong Kong dollars through the f ree market. However, licenses are required for all receipts f rom, as well as t rans fe rs to, other parts of the Sterling Area wh ich exceed £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies; these licenses are granted for all bona fide transac t ions between Hong Kong and other pa r ts of the Sterling Area. Changes during 1965 No significant changes took place dur ing 1965. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND * Exchange Rate System The par value is Icelandic Kronur 43.00 = US$1. The official rates are IKr 42.95 buying, and IKr 43.06 selling, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on these rates and the dollar rates for such cur- rencies in other countries. Rates for settlements through clearing accounts are fixed. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange transactions among themselves and to engage in arbitrage in foreign markets. A fee of % of 1 per cent is charged on the kronur amount of foreign exchange sold by banks. Exchange Control Territory Iceland is part of the Sterling Area —the Scheduled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange control system. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce has the ultimate decision on matters concerning import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of foreign exchange transactions and of exchange control, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is surrendered to the authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest Icelandic banks, the National Bank of Iceland and the Fisheries Bank, are the only banks, other than the Central Bank, that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In addition, they issue import and exchange licenses in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency All settlements with the seven countries with which Iceland main- tains bilateral payments agreements must be made exclusively through clearing accounts, denominated as fo l lows: with Rumania and the U.S.S.R., in Icelandic k ronu r; with Braz i l, Hungary, and Poland, in sterling; and with Czechoslovakia and Eastern Germany, in U.S. dollars. As a general rule, exchange receipts f rom other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements with countries in the dollar area are made in U.S. do l lars; with countries in the Sterling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with all other countries, in their respective currencies. 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at January 21, 1966. 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kronur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Accounts. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with au thor ized payments due to nonresidents f rom residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used for authorized payments to residents and may be con- verted into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for international transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies. Special Accounts may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most important of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited free ly, up to certain limits, with payments f rom residents. Imports and Import Payments All goods not included on the restricted list or subject to state trading (see below) may be imported f ree ly without an import license from any country; about 87 per cent of total imports (1964 basis) is liberalized. Some 60 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and are subject to quantitative restric- tion. Most of these goods are admitted, sub ject to individual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral payments agreements. The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted f rom the same countries on the basis of ind iv idual licenses issued on a discretionary basis. All goods on the restricted list require individual licenses when imported from bilateral payments agreement countries; licenses in this case are generally issued in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas. Certain imports are only admitted under state trad ing. Except for imports of automobiles, a fee of % of 1 per cent (minimum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license when the license is issued. This fee is not charged on licenses for imports f rom countries with which Iceland maintains bilateral payments agreements. A fee of 125 per cent is charged as a license fee on the f.o.b. kronur amount of the import license for automobiles from all sources (30 per cent for jeep-type vehicles). Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment f rom abroad, provided that the purchase is payab le at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy fore ign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require ind iv idual licenses, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Payments for Invisibles No exchange license is required for government payments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the fore ign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone serv ices), for bank ing commissions, or for bank charges on fore ign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed f ree ly on the basis of bona fide documents. An exchange allocation for tourist travel is granted up to US$280 a year, or its equivalent in other currencies, for each person. Applications for exchange for repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and a i r c r a f t, transactions and t rans fe rs in connection with direct insurance, and insurance business operations abroad are considered on their merits. Residents trave l ing abroad may take with them fo re ign banknotes and coins wh ich they possess legally, and Icelandic banknotes and coins not exceeding IKr 2,500. Nonresidents may re-export the fore ign banknotes and coins, and up to IKr 2,500 of the Icelandic banknotes and coins, which they brought into Iceland. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. Exchange receipts accruing f rom exports must be surrendered without undue delay. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and a i rc ra ft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to retain their fore ign exchange receipts f rom fre igh t, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessities for the homeward jou rney of the ship or a i rc ra f t. Icelandic insurance companies which reinsure abroad are permitted to retain fore ign exchange earned f rom premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance premiums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the fore ign exchange was earned. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Residents may bring in, upon re-entering the country, up to IKr 2,500 in Icelandic banknotes and co ins; the limit for nonresident travelers is IKr 5,000. There are no limitations on the import of fore ign bank- notes and coins. Capital All fore ign investments in Iceland are subject to individual approval. The participation of nonresidents in Iceland's jo int stock companies may not exceed 49 per cent. Nonresident-owned foreign capital entering in the fo rm of fore ign exchange must be surrendered. Non- residents may be au thor ized to open nonresident accounts for these fund s, in which case their re t rans fer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender fo re ign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applications for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in exceptional circumstances. The contracting of commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 months is also approved only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection with the import of indus tr ial raw ma ter ia ls for wh ich the production process is lengthy, construction materials, etc. Commercial banks may f ree ly permit import credits of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of specified imports, inc lud ing motor vehicles for personal use, various household appliances, specified foods, various types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported f u n d s; the t ran s fer abroad of the proceeds f rom the sale of these assets and securities requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concern ing them are subject to licensing. The import and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Changes during 1965 January 1. The import license fee on imports of automobiles f rom all sources was increased f rom 100 per cent to 125 per cent of the f.o.b. value. January 29. The importation of over 60 commodity groups previously included in the restricted list was l ibera l ized. A revised list of global 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND quotas for 1965 was published to take account of this liberalization. It was announced that the importation of some 15 additional com- modity groups was to be freed with e f fect f rom Ju ly 1, 1965. July 1. Imports of additional commodities were liberalized (see January 29, above). October 1. A new bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia took e f f e c t; the agreement account was denominated in U.S. dollars. NOTE.—The fo l low ing changes were made early in 1966: January 1. A fee of y2 of 1 per cent was charged on the kronur amount of fore ign exchange sold by banks. January 21. Imports of iron, lumber, and several groups of other commodities were liberalized. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Ind ian Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. Transactions in foreign exchange are conduc ted th rough au thor ized dealers, as fo l lows: in sterling, at rates fixed by the Foreign Exchange Dealers Association; in other currencies, at rates fixed on the basis of the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. Authorized dealers are permitted to cover the ir requirements of fore ign currencies in the London market and to cover their permitted transactions in certain currencies1 against s ter l ing, rupees, or any one of these curren- cies, either spot or fo rw a rd for periods not exceeding six months, with au thor ized banks in any country outside the B i la teral Account group.2 On December 31, 1965, market rates f or te leg raph ic t ran s fe rs on London were Is. 6%2d. buying, and Is. 531/32d. selling, per Re 1, and for telegraphic transfers on New York they were Rs 4.7425 buying, and Rs 4.7750 selling, per US$1. Other effec t ive rates arise f rom the negotiation of cer t if ica tes issued under the Na t ional Defense Rem i t tance Scheme and f rom the issuance of tax credit cer t if ica tes; add i t ional effec t ive rates may arise under several of the export promotion schemes (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. Much of the routine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as au thor ized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regu la t ions laid down by the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency India is a member of the Sterling Area and has an exchange control system similar to that of the Un i ted K ingdom but adapted to suit local 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French f rancs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 A fghan is tan, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia, There are also special payments arrangements with Pakistan, the Sudan, and the United Arab Republic for settlement of their trade with India in specified commodities on a balanced basis and within specified ceilings; the agreement w i th Pakistan is at present inoperative. The State Trading Corporation of India has an arrangement w i th the Tunisian agency OCET for balancing purchases and sales of specified commodities. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA requirements. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling Area countries, Bilateral Account countries,2 and the Convertible Account group (a ll other countries). Payments to and f rom Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling or any Sterling Area currency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident of any Sterling Area country except India, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling Area country except India.3 Payments to and f rom Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to countries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or sterling to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group4 or in any listed currency.5 Receipts f rom the Convertible Account group may be obtained in any listed currency,5 in rupees f rom the account of a bank in any country in this group, or in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhutan and Nepal are treated as resident accounts.6 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, i.e., Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts. These accounts may be credited with payments for imports, interest and dividends, and other authorized payments, with authorized trans- fers from the nonresident accounts of private firms or persons, with proceeds f rom sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds f rom sales of sterling f rom the appropriate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom. They may be debited for payments for exports, and for other payments 8 The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Pakistan. * All remittances by nationals of Mainland China to any country outside India and all remittances to Mainland China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped with effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to Mainland China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Rhodesia. 5 The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands. Federal Republic of Germany, French Franc Area, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 8 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their foreign exchange require- ments from the Nepal Rastra Bank. 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for remit- tances by Indian nationals resident in the Sterling Area for credit to their accounts in India or for payment to Indian nationals resident in India. Transfers may be made from Convertible Accounts to other Convertible Accounts or to Sterling Area Accounts and between Sterling Area Accounts. All other entries on Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; re funds of amounts previously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate fore ign currency or transfers f rom appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see Prescription of Currency, above ); proceeds f rom checks issued by the L i fe Insurance Corporation in respect of maturity or death claims and surrendered value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in Ind ia; proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such credits during a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750; and proceeds f rom the sale of Indian Government securities and of units issued by the Unit Trust of India which were originally purchased from funds in the same nonresident account. These accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on l i fe insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due f rom the account holder in Ind ia; contribu- tions to the National Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any government-sponsored cha r i ty; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents; investment in Indian Government securities and in units issued by the Unit Trust of Ind ia; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporarily resident in India. All other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted f rom nonresident accounts of ind iv idua ls or firms to non- resident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. Special regulations cover funds lodged in National Defence Remit- tance Scheme (Special) Accounts representing rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds f rom sales of certificates issued under the Scheme. Balances in such accounts cannot be remitted ab road; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be invested domestically or be used for other expenditures in India. 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital proceeds that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Balances on blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities; the income derived f rom such investments may norma l ly be remitted to the owner's country, with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports require individual licenses. Individual licenses may be issued ad hoc, or on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period and to actual users on the basis of their entitlements or require- ments. In addition, licenses for specified commodities may be granted on the basis of certificates issued under the National Defence Remit- tance Scheme (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, below) and on the'bas is of entitlements to import license that are issued under export promotion schemes. Generally, licenses may be used to import f rom any country except South A f r i c a, South West A f r i c a, and Rhodes ia ;7 imports f rom these countries are prohibited. Licensing policy generally accords priority to foods tu f fs, capital goods, raw materials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or prohibited. At the beginning of each financial year, an announcement on import control policy is made in the fo rm of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for established importers and actual users. Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis, subject to the condition that only the first ha lf of the annual license may be used in the first six months of the validity period of the annual license, and the second ha lf of the license may be utilized, subject to such change as may be decided upon, in the second six months and within the extended period of validity allowed for this purpose. In other cases, licenses are issued for the first six months, and a supplementary license is issued later for the second six months. There are special procedures applicable to imports of capital goods, of heavy electrical plant, and of goods imported to f u l f i ll government contracts and for irrigation projects. In l icens ing imports of a capital nature, their essentiality, their potential for earning or saving foreign exchange, and the availability of medium-term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make payments by opening from Pakistan were suspended between September 1965 and 7 Imports March 1966. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA letters of credit or by remitting against sight d ra f ts. Advance remit- tances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufac turers, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. With few exceptions, imports are subject to a customs surcharge ("regulatory duty") of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted free ly for a few such payments, mainly for expenses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to resi- dents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in wh ich the policy is issued; but Indian residents are prohibited f rom tak ing out l i fe insur- ance policies in foreign currencies. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to nonresident beneficiaries (except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme), provided that all current tax and other liabilities in India have been cleared. However, remittances to Indian nationals who emigrated on or after January 1, 1963 of dividends and interest on shares, securities, and deposits held in India require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank or are subject to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigration fac i l i t ies; such remittances are subject to an over-all limit of Rs 20,000 a year. Foreign employees are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their families, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals other than nationals of Pakistan up to Rs 1,500 a month, provided that this amount does not exceed 50 per cent of the remitter's net income. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or education abroad are considered on an ' ind iv idu al basis; no exchange is granted for tourist travel. Travel agents and companies are not permitted to book passages abroad for persons "resident in India unless the traveler has been granted travel exchange by the Reserve Bank or has been specifically granted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage. The export of Indian currency notes and coins except to Nepal is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East A f r i c a, and travelers to Ceylon and Pakistan, may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time. Residents may take out fore ign notes and coins up to Rs 40 a person: authorized money-changers at airports and seaports are permitted to sell foreign currency notes up to a value of Rs 40 a person to all passengers, whether Ind ian or fo re ign, who have made payments for the f a re in rupees in Ind ia; nonresidents may take out the foreign notes and coins which they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers in India. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most com- modities may be exported without a license. Most of the controlled commodities are licensed f ree ly to all shippers; a few may be exported through established sh ippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports to South A f r i c a, South West A f r i c a, Tibet, Rhodesia, and Pakistan are prohibited. Exports to all permitted destinations other than Nepa l, Bhutan, and Sikkim of a large number of non t rad i t ional export commodities and certain traditional commodities may be made by registered exporters under export promotion schemes. Under these schemes, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the fore ign exchange proceeds, exporters receive import entitlements for specified commodities used in the production of the export commodity covered by a par t icu lar promotion scheme.8 These entitlements are, for a number of schemes, eligible for t rans fer to other exporters and manu fac tu re rs covered by the scheme. Under a Tax Credit Certificate (Expor ts) Scheme app l icab le to a specified list of exports, tax credit certificates are issued amounting to 2, 5, 10, and 15 per cent o f* the rupee equivalent of the export proceeds. The certificates may be used for settlement of tax l iab i l i t ies; any certificates in excess of liabilities may be cashed in rupees. Exchange control is exercised over the proceeds of exports to coun- tries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the f u ll export proceeds w i ll be received and dealt with in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, inc lud ing the proceeds of exports, in most currencies9 must be offered for sale against rupees to an author- 8 When exports are made to countries paying in inconvertible rupees, the entitlement is normally available only for use in the country concerned. No entitlements are issued for exports to Afghan is tan, but certain import facilities are granted to exporters to that country under the export promotion scheme for cotton textiles. 9 The list includes Canad ian dollars. U.S. dollars, most Western European currencies (including s ter l ing), D j ibou ti francs, East Afr ican shillings, Hong Kong 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA ized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or the holdings are the balance on July 8, 1947 in a sterling account held by h im, or he is not domiciled in India and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles in certain currencies (see footnote 9) must be surrendered. Under the National Defence Remittance Scheme, individuals of Indian nationality resident in India who obtain, through banking channels and in any currency other than Indian rupees or a bilateral account currency, f am i ly remittances, gifts, or capital (without repa- triation fac i l i t ies), receive, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the remittance, a t rans fe rab le certificate with which they can, upon application, acquire an import license corresponding to 60 per cent of that rupee amoun t. Permitted imports under the Scheme are comprised of a wide range of essential goods. The rupee proceeds of the remittance and of the certificate may be used freely in India for any purpose. Similar privileges are available to nonresidents, irrespective of nation- ality, provided that the proceeds of remittances are credited to special accounts in their own names; the certificates issued against their remittances must be endorsed in favor of an Indian resident, and the payment, if any, for the certificate must be credited to the special account held by the remittor. Funds in special accounts may be used freely for tax payments and charitable payments in India and for placement in fixed deposits or in units of the Unit Trust of India or in government securities; all other disbursements f rom such accounts require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Balances are not re transferab le abroad. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, pro- hibited. However, deck passengers f rom Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East A f r ica, and travelers from Ceylon and Pakistan, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount f rom India. Persons coming to India f rom Burma are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers f rom Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding duly dollars, Iraqi dinars, Malayan dollars, Moroccan dirhams, Panamanian balboas, Philippine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and Vietnamese piastres. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA certified declaration fo rms may sell the relevant currency notes to any authorized money-changer or authorized dealer in fore ign exchange. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically f r e e, except when it- is to fo rm part of an investment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government. Banks in India may borrow free ly f rom their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are u t i l ized for the purchase of rupees f rom the Reserve Bank and that they are repaid only when the debtor bank has no outstanding "borrowings in India f rom the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Repa tr ia t ion of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and by residents of Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, is authorized free ly. Capital invested in approved pro jec ts a f ter Janua ry 1, 1950 by residents of other countries, inc lud ing capital appreciation on the original investment, may be repatriated at any time. The proceeds f rom l iqu ida ted fore ign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Local borrowing by foreign-controlled corporate bodies is restricted. Under the National De fence Rem i t tance Scheme (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, above) certain fac i l i t ies are available to nonresidents irrespective of na t iona l i ty and to ind iv idua ls of Indian nationality resident in India on imports of capital without repatriation fac i l i t ies, provided that these are made through bank ing channels and in a currency other than a bilateral account currency. For the purposes of the Scheme, such capital is deemed to include provident fund ba lances; payments due under l i fe insurance po l ic ies; the sales pro- ceeds and proceeds on maturity of fore ign securities held by Ind ian nationals with the permission of the Reserve Bank; and all balances in foreign currencies held by Ind ian na t iona ls with the permission of the Reserve Bank. Indian nationals ( in c lud ing persons domiciled in Ind ia) are not normally granted any fore ign exchange facilities for emigration pur- poses. In exceptional cases, fo re ign exchange may be released up to a limit of Rs 20,000 at the time of emigration and in three subsequent annual installments of Rs 10,000 each. The remainder of an emigrant's assets are blocked; only income on such blocked assets is thereafter allowed to be remitted up to a l im it of Rs 20,000 per annum. Foreign nationals who are resident but not domiciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to t ran s fer to their own country the 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA proceeds f rom the sale of their investments, subject to a limit of Rs 75,000 at the time of retirement and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 20,000 per annum, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in Ind i a; in addition, they may t rans fer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or fo re ign securities. The export of securities and the ir t ran s fer to non- residents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of fo re ign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to hold fore ign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Ind ian exchange regulations. Changes during 1965 January 1. Imports of phosphates f r om Jordan could no longer be settled in Indian rupees. February 17. A customs surcharge ("regulatory duty") of 10 per cent ad valorem was introduced on all imports, except crude petroleum, foodgra ins, fe r t i l ize rs, pesticides, books, and accessories for fam i ly p lann ing. Petroleum products other than kerosene were subjected to additional excise taxes and coun terva i l ing import duties. Raw ju te and sulphur were subsequently exempted f rom the 10 per cent surcharge. April 1. The Foreign Exchange Regulation (Amendmen t) Act, 1964 came into effec t. The Amendment strengthened certain provisions of the original Foreign Exchange Regu la t ion Ac t, pa r t icu la r ly those relating to the enforcement of the controls. Foreign-controlled com- panies in India were required to obtain permission f rom the Reserve Bank be fo re accepting appointment as agents or advisors. June 29-July 15. The import program for the 12-month period f rom April 1, 1965' was announced. As a result of a political emergency, the program was not put into effec t. Most permitted imports were licensed on an ad hoc basis. July 1. Importers were required to put up prior import deposits of 25 per cent of the c .i .f. value of all private imports; the deposits had to be made prior to dispatch of the goods to India. July 12. Capital goods on approved deferred payment terms, certain goods imported under fore ign loans, and most imports under U.S. Public Law 480 were exempted f rom the prior import deposit requirement. August 5. Corn imported under U.S. Public Law 480, imports of cotton under certain barter deals, raw cashew nuts imported for 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA re-export, and books and periodicals were exempted from the prior import deposit requirement. August 17. Panamanian dollars, Philippine pesos, and Portuguese escudos were deleted f rom the list of currencies in which authorized dealers are free ly permitted to deal spot or fo rwa rd in any country outside the Bilateral Account group. August 20. The 10 per cent customs surcharge imposed in October 1963 was abolished; the regulatory duty introduced on February 17 (see above) was continued. August 20. The prior import deposit requirement was abolished. August 20. A ma jor revision of the customs duty schedule took e f fec t; import duties on most goods were increased. September 6. All remittances to Pakistan were suspended. September 7. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India was required for foreign exchange transactions with branches of Pakistani banks in India. September 8. Transactions with, or on behalf of, residents of Pakistan became subject to certain restrictions and prior approval procedures. September 8. No remittances abroad could be made by, or on behalf of, Pakistani nationals or firms and companies either incorpo- rated in Pakistan or under the control of persons resident in Pakistan. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India was required for all operations on the accounts of persons or firms resident in Pakistan, or of firms and companies either incorporated in Pakistan or under the control of persons resident in Pakistan. September 18. Remittances in excess of Rs 1,000 for imports by parcel post or air freight required prior approval by the Reserve Bank. September 29. The Rs 2 million limit on the import of banking funds by individual banks was abolished, but preconditions were imposed on the repayment of imported banking funds in excess of Rs 2 million. Repayment could take place only if the debtor bank had no out- standing borrowings in India f rom the Reserve Bank or any other bank and when the interbank call rate in India was below the Treasury bill rate. October 1. A Tax Credit Certificate (Exports) Scheme was intro- duced. Credit certificates would be issued to exporters for 2, 5, 10, or 15 per cent of the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange value of specified exports to any country other than Nepal, Bhu tan, or Sikkim; for some of these commodities the certificates would be granted on 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA exports made a f ter February 28, 1965, and for others on exports made af ter October 1,1965. October 16. Indian currency notes c ircu la t ing in Bahra in were w i thdrawn and exchanged for Bahra in dinars. The Reserve Bank of India ceased to accept f rom individuals, banks, and other institutions in Bahra in special rupee notes and Indian coins for payment in sterling or for credit to rupee accounts. October 20. An issue of 15-year National Defence Gold Bonds was launched. Subscription and redemption were to take place in gold. October 20. A National Defence Remittance Scheme was introduced. Ind iv idua ls of Indian na t iona l i ty resident in India who were benefi- ciaries of fam i ly remittances, g if ts, or t rans fe rs of capital (without repatriation fac i l i t ies) obtained through bank ing channels in foreign exchange other than a bilateral account currency received, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the remittance, a transferab le certificate with which they could, upon app l ica t ion, obtain an import license corresponding to 60 per cent of that rupee amount. For the purposes of the Scheme, capital without repatriation fac i l i t ies was deemed to include provident fund balances; payments due under life insurance po l ic ies; the sales proceeds and proceeds on maturity of. foreign securities held by Indian nationals with the permission of the Reserve Bank; and all balances in fore ign currencies held by Indian nationals with the permission of the Reserve Bank. The Scheme would be appli- cable only to remittances received du r ing the period between Octo- ber 25, 1965 and February 1, 1966. The items permitted for import covered a wide range of cap i tal goods, spare parts, metals, raw mate- r ia ls, and chemicals but did not include any restricted or prohibited items. Import applications could be submitted up to April 30, 1966. November 1. A bilateral payments arrangement with the Sudan became effective. November 3. Authorized banks could not accept for payment, or make payment on, letters of credit opened or other arrangements made for imports of goods f r om or into Pakistan or in pursuance or discharge of obligations directly or indirectly entered into with persons, firms, or banks resident in Pakistan or of Pakistani nationality. November IS. In view of its exclusion f rom the Sterling Area, Rhodesia was reclassified as belonging to the Convertible Account group. November 17. Exports to Rhodesia and imports of goods of Rho- desian origin were prohibited. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA November 26. One of the preconditions imposed on the repayment of imported banking funds in excess of Rs 2 million, viz., that it could be made only when the interbank call rate in India was below the Treasury bill rate, was abolished. December 6. Restrictions on rupee loans and overdraf ts to foreign- controlled companies in India were tightened. December 11. The benefits of the National Defence Remittance Scheme were extended to all nonresidents, irrespective of nationality, provided that the proceeds of remittances were credited to special accounts in their own names. These benefits would be available only on remittances received in India between December 10, 1965 and February 1,1966. December 15. All applications for remittances to Rhodesia required the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India. December 24- The prior approval procedure for remittances in excess of Rs 1,000 for imports by parcel post or air fre ight was mod i f ied; prior approval was no longer required to open a letter of credit or to make remittances against shipping documents for imports by air fre igh t. 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Iran ian Rials 75.75 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Rls 75.00 buying, and Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other currencies quoted by the central b a n kl are based on these buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, taking into consideration the exchange rates of the quoted currencies in the international exchange markets. Exchange rates for currencies not quoted by the central bank are determined by the authorized banks with due regard to the rates against the U.S. do l lar currently quoted in the international exchange markets. The fo l low ing charges are levied by the authorized banks on the amount of exchange sold for imports: % of 1 per cent for sanitary services, and %0 of 1 per cent of the invoice amount for the Export Promotion Fund. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Bank Markazi Iran (the central b ank ). All foreign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The Ministry of Economy determines the classification of imported' and exported commodities. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in sterling, U.S. dollars, or the currency of the country concerned, provided that the currency is one which is quoted by the central bank. Transactions with the five countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain Foreign Nationals' Accounts f ree ly, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with the authorized banks. Rial accounts may be used only for payments in Iran. Foreign currency accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-examined annually, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Economy. The Import List distinguishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, con- sisting of nonluxury goods wh ich either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic requirements, are divided into two main categories: (1) imports for which orders may be placed without prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies be fo re the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports include goods which have been shifted f rom the "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, as well as goods that may be permitted occasionally by the Ministry of Economy when the supply of the protected local product is considered insufficient. For "prohibited" goods, no authorizations are given. Specified commodities, such as tobacco and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Gold may be imported only by the central bank. Payments for imports may be made either against bills for collection or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made without authorization for goods (mainly capital goods and raw materials) listed in the Schedule attached to Circular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 ( I ran ian date 12.5.1344). Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission from the central bank. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. All orders for imports must be registered with the Bank Ma rkazi Iran through an authorized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. Foreign exchange obtained f rom the sale of exports to countries whose currencies are not quoted by the central bank may be utilized by the exporters concerned or by others to import authorized goods from these or other countries. Also foreign exchange obtained by residents f rom persons abroad, other than from the sale of exports, may be used to import goods authorized for payment against bills for collection. However, transactions of this na ture do not exempt importers f rom paying %0 of 1 per cent tax on imports and the 8 Imports of goods that are not included in the bilateral import/export list for countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Economy. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN difference between the buying and selling rates of foreign exchange. The import of gifts is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. At the time of registration of imports, importers are required to deposit with the Bank Ma rkaz i, through an authorized bank, Rls 1.50 per U.S. dollar of the amount of the import order. This deposit is liable to fo r fe i tu re in the event that any misrepresentation by the importer is subsequently discovered but is otherwise re fundab le upon presentation of the customs clearance certificate a f ter the respective goods have been cleared through customs, or if and when the order is canceled. Additionally, advance deposits apply to all imports for which payments are made against documentary letters of credit. The deposit must be made by the importer in rials at the Bank Markazi Iran, through an authorized bank, when he registers his order with the Bank and submits his application for the opening of a letter of c r e d i t ;4 it is re fundab le upon clearance of the documents. The rates of deposit are currently Rls 10.00, Rls 30.00, and Rls 75,00 per U.S. dollar (depending on the essentiality of the goods). Authorized banks make payments for permitted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping docu- ments by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are sub ject to commercial profit taxes, in addition to tar iffs, wh ich are either specific or ad valorem. The ad valorem commercial prof it tax ranges f rom 1 per cent to 225 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial prof it taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. All taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clear- ance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents approved by the authorized banks, spec i fy ing that pay- ment has been made or w i ll be made, and, when required, that the special import au tho r iza t ion has been received f rom government agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documen tary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian exports sold f .o .b. Payments for noncommercial invisibles * Import letters of credit cannot be opened until the order has been registered with the Bank Markazi Iran. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN require licenses f rom the central bank. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been recog- nized as necessary by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The annual travel allowance for I ran ian nationals —which is limited to US$500 or its equivalent in other currencies for travel to Europe, the United States, or the Far East, and to US$100 for other countries —may be sold by authorized banks upon presentation of the traveler's visaed pass- port. For ch i ldren under 12 years of age the allowances are 30 per cent of the above amounts. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit, except for pilgrimage travel for which the tax is Rls 3,000. Lower rates apply to fam i ly members trave l ing on the same passport (w i fe and children f rom 7-18 years of a g e ), viz., Rls 750 a person for pilgrimages and Rls 2,500 a person for other travel. Iran ians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt f rom payment of the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iran ian banknotes. Travelers of fo re ign nationality may not export fore ign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$50 into other currencies upon presentation of their visaed passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of oil to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some com- modities require licenses. A commercial profit tax is imposed on a few exports, ma in ly consumer goods or raw materials. The commercial profit tax charged at the time of import on materials contained in goods for export may be returned to the exporter a f ter the export has taken place. Under a system of export subsidies, the Ministry of Economy pays the exporter 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of manganese ore; 12% per cent of the f .o .b. value of first-grade and second-grade pickled skins (salambore); and 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of chromite and packed raisins. However, the actual rates paid to the exporter by the Ministry of Economy are 90 per cent of the percentages mentioned for ores and 75 per cent of those indicated for packed raisins and pickled skins; the remainder is put at the disposal of the Ministry of Economy to promote exports. The exporter must surrender the fo re ign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the customs, within eight months a f ter the goods have been exported. Au thor ized banks accept export proceeds 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN only in specified currencies (see footnote 1). Export proceeds in other currencies may be used to purchase imports f rom the same or other countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom inv is ib les must be surrendered unless used to import authorized goods. The import of I ran ian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repa tr ia t ion of I ran ian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Upon arr ival in I ran, travelers of Iran ian na t iona l i ty must either sell their fore ign exchange to an authorized bank or deposit it in a temporary fo re ign exchange account, f rom wh ich t rans fe rs abroad or to Foreign Nationals' Accounts require licenses f rom the central bank. Other travelers, dur ing their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Transfers of capital abroad requ ire the approval of the central bank. Except as noted below, such approval is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the law conce rn ing the encouragement and pro- tection of fore ign capital investment in Iran (1955) and regulations implementing the law, fo re ign capital invested in approved develop- ment or productive activities in indus try, m in ing, agriculture, or transport may be repatriated, together w i th net profits (in accordance with the provisions contained in the imp lemen t ing regu la t ions ), in the fo rm of fo re ign exchange and /or goods. T rans fe rs of exchange must be made at the selling rate p reva i l ing at the date of t rans fe r. However, the central bank has the option of buy ing the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into r ia ls at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is app l icab le to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported in the fo rm of foreign exchange must be in currencies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is converted into r ia ls at the buy ing rate pre- vailing at the date of application for conversion. The law does not set up any limit of par t ic ipa t ion with respect to the ratio of fore ign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encourages partici- pation by Iran ians in the proposed investments. Changes during 1965 March 21. The Import/Export Regulations for the Iran ian year 1344 (Ma rch 21, 1965-March 20, 1966) were published by the 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Ministry of Economy. The import/export policy of Iran remained substantially the same as in the previous year. All imports of industrial equipment were made subject to prior licensing by the Ministry of Economy. Some imports were designated as "unauthorized," but a few items were sh if ted f rom the "unauthorized" to the "authorized" list. Wheat and sugar also were placed on the "authorized" list. The rates of the commercial profit tax were amended for 45 items. March 27. The import of goods for payment by bills for collection required prior registration with the central bank. April 21. Advance deposit requirements on imports of live sheep and meat were reduced f rom Rls 30.60 to Rls 11.50 per US$1. April 24- Imports of specified categories of mach inery no longer required a license f rom the Ministry of Economy. July 21. Foreign exchange (other than export proceeds) obtained by residents f rom persons abroad, if used for imports, could be used only for goods authorized for payment against bills for collection. August 7. Registrations of intended imports were made subject to a deposit requirement of Rls 1.50 per US$1, re fundab le af ter the goods had cleared customs. The existing advance deposit requirements were reduced f rom Rls 11.50, Rls 30.60, and Rls 76.50 per U.S. dollar to Rls 10.00, Rls 30.00, and Rls 75.00 per U.S. do l la r; these advance deposits remained re fundab le upon clearance of documents. September 23. Export subsidies on washed and unwashed sultanas, third-grade pickled skins, and iron ore were abolished. Other subsidies, with the exception of that on manganese ore, were reduced: on packed sultanas f rom 20 per cent to 10 per cen t; on first-grade and second-grade pickled skins f r om 15 per cent to 12% per cen t; and on chromite f rom 121/2 per cent to 10 per cent. November 22. Exports of oil to Rhodesia were prohibited. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is Iraqi D inar 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed currencies1 or in Iraqi d inars th rough nonresident accoun ts in Iraq. The Central Bank of Iraq quotes off ic ial rates for the listed currencies for its transactions with au thor ized dealers. The o f f ic ial ra tes for the U.S. do l lar on December 31, 1965 were US$2.8030 buying, and US$2.7944 selling, per ID 1. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi d inar equ iva lent of fo re ign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts t r an s f e r r ed for the account of persons s tudy ing abroad, persons on o f f i c i al missions, and fo re igne rs (o ther than those marr ied to Iraq is). -The rate of duty is 8 per cent for the first ID 500 (w i th the exception of cer ta in exempted amoun ts; see section on Payments for Invisibles, be low) and 12 per cent on amoun ts above ID 500 (with the same exemptions) granted du r ing any ca lendar year. There is a small free market (ma in ly in banknotes) in Iran ian rials and Saudi A rab ian riyals. Administration of Control The Board of Adm in i s t ra t ion of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange con t ro l; it has delegated this au thor i ty to the Foreign Exchange Committee, headed by the Governor of the Central Bank, to the .D i rec to ra te of Foreign Exchange of the Cen t ral Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange transactions must take' place through a licensed dea ler un less otherwise au tho r ized by the Board of Adm in is tra t ion. The D irec tora te-General of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Economy is the l icen s ing au tho r i ty for imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed currencies,1 or, under b i la teral paymen ts agreemen ts ,2 in d ina rs or pounds s ter l ing th rough the app rop r ia te c l e a r ing accoun t. l rT he listed currencies are Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French f ranc s, Italian l ire, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, pounds s te r l ing, Swedish kronor, Swiss f ranc s, and U.S. dollars. 2 Iraq has b i la teral paymen ts agreemen ts w i th M a in l and Ch ina, the Un i ted A rab Republic, and Yugoslavia. There is an inactive payments agreement with Lebanon. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Nonresident Accounts The opening of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transactions permitted in convertible currencies may alternatively be settled in Iraqi dinars through non- resident accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel and all imports from Hong Kong other than certain capital goods are prohibited. Imports of ju te, sugar, tea, and certain medical supplies are a government monopoly. All private imports are licensed in accordance with an annual quota system. Quotas are distributed by the Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in accordance with its own criteria; each category of importers is limited to specified types of commodities. Imports of consumer goods generally are more heavily restricted than those of raw materials and construction materials for industrial use. Some commodities may only be imported by government agencies or state trad ing companies; other commodities may also be imported by registered private importers or by contractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraqi Govern- ment. New importers who meet the requirements may also be granted import privileges. Licenses for private imports are valid for 6 months from the date of issue and are automatically renewable for a similar period if a letter of credit has been opened. Licenses for imports by the Government or by o f f ic ial agencies are valid for 12 months f rom the date of issue. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in certain cases where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for travel, educational and medical expenses abroad, f re ight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are permitted to t rans fer up to ID 50 a month for fam i ly maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to re fer to the exchange control authorities for amounts exceeding this limit. There is a basic travel a l lowance of ID 300 a calendar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 150 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and of ID 50 for children 5 years of age or younger, subject 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ to a limit of ID 600 for each passport covering more than one person. Iraqi nationals traveling to Iran, to the countries of the Persian Gu l f, or on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arab ia are allowed ha lf of these amounts. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allowances is subject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi currency notes and the equivalent of ID 15 in foreign currency. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi A rab ia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 50 in listed currencies or in Saudi Arab ian riyals. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on off ic ial missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraq is). The tax is 8 per cent on the first ID 500 granted during any calendar year and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500, with the fo l low ing exemptions: ID 150 for persons 18 years of age or over, ID 75 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger, Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an authorized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's return to Iraq, subject to the fu l f i l lment of certain formalities. The fo l low ing are exempt f rom the deposit requirement: off ic ia ls of government, semigovernment, and pub l ic utility departments, certain persons traveling for study pur- poses, foreigners except non-Iraqi wives of Iraqi nationals, and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Kuwait are f ree of restriction; certain agricultural exports to Kuwait, however, require an export license. All exports to Hong Kong and Israel and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. Specified exports (e.g., certain kinds of livestock, certain foods tuffs in short supply, cereals and fruits, and raw materials in short supply) may be prohibited, and some of these (e.g., wheat and certain f ru i t s) may be exported only if specially authorized by the High Supply Committee. All other exports are licensed freely. The re-export of such goods as cars and agricultural machinery is prohibited. Exporters must undertake to repatriate their foreign exchange pro- ceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Persian Gulf area (excluding Iran) are exempt f rom these requirements. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including currency notes, in unlimited amounts, provided that they are declared to the Iraqi customs; foreigners may re-export any unused amount. Travelers may bring in ID 5 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital free ly, but they must deposit it with a licensed dea ler; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the o f f ic ial rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, fore ign companies starting opera- tions in Iraq must use Iraqi cap i tal to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. One ha lf of the prof i ts of foreign service com- panies (companies rendering services only) is transferab le. The trans- fer of profits f rom fore ign investments in other economic activities is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the pa id-up capital for commercial, bank ing, and insurance companies, and to 20 per cent of the pa id-up capital for indus tr ial companies. These percentages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to prof i ts on capital resulting f rom reinvestment of profits in excess of the t rans fe rab le percentages. Interest payments may be made f ree ly, sub ject to administrative checking. Imports of cap i tal f rom Israel are prohibited. All t rans fe rs of capital abroad by residents, whe ther Iraqis or fore igners, require exchange control approval. Under the Indus tr ial Development Law (No. 31 of 1961) and the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 164 of 1964), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted par t ial or total exemption dur ing the first five years of operation f rom income tax, stamp duties, and customs duties on their profits up to 10 per cent of pa id -up cap i ta l, provided that (1) the p r inc ipal work of the enterprise is done by m a c h i n e; (2) all workers and employees other than essential techn ic ians or experts are Iraqi citizens or A rab s; (3) the value of mach ine ry and tools required, excluding power-generating p lan t, exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) fore ign non-Arab participation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. Similar exemptions for prof i ts up to 5 per cent of pa id-up capital are granted dur ing the second five-year period of operation. The specified enterprises are those whose ma in purpose is to process raw materials into sem imanufac tured or finished products or to process sem imanu fac- tured products into finished products, including assembly. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ foreign-owned firms (except b a n k s )3 must have a ma jo r i ty of equity capital held by Iraqi na t iona l s; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requ ir ing special skills. Changes during 1965 January 1. The A rab Common Market Agreement, signed by Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, the Syrian A r ab Repub l ic, and the United A rab Republic, entered into force. January 1. The import program for 1965 took effect. Imports (other than defense items) would be kept to the level of 1964, i.e., to some US$390 million. The importation of luxury goods would remain severely restricted. August 3. A trade agreement was signed with Turkey; the prohibi- tion of exports to or imports f rom Turkey was terminated. Sept ember-November. The import program for 1965 was revised; imports of essential food s tu f fs would be increased substantially. The government monopoly over the importation of drugs and pharmaceuti- cals, insecticides, baby food and similar products, powdered milk, motor vehicles (other than passenger c a r s ), and spare parts for motor vehicles was removed. November 26. The government monopoly over imports of tires and tubes, automobile batteries, X-ray appara tus and film, and microscopes was l i f t ed; imports of these commodities were liberalized. November 26. Imports of feeds tu f fs, seeds, agricultural machinery and tools, fertilizers, and insecticides were liberalized. November 26. It was announced that the entire import trade would be returned to private traders, with the exception of tea, sugar, ju te, and certain medical supplies. 3 All commercial banks and July 14,1964. insurance companies were nationalized on 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND * Exchange Rate System The par value is Irish Pound 1 = US$2.80. Transactions in sterling take place at parity. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on London market rates. Certain capital transactions involving invest- ment currency or property currency (see section on Capital, below) take place at d ifferent effective rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, are issued by the Department of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture if the goods are agricultural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling Area, and payments to and f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency; certain insurance payments within the Sterling Area, however, may be made in non-Sterling Area currencies. Author- ized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any specified currency.2 The proceeds of permitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in specified currency; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other countries of the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in coun- 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the situation on March 31, 1966. 2T he specified currencies are listed as fo l lows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND tries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, with the exception of Blocked Accounts and Rhodesian Accounts, are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for t rans fer to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, with transfers f r om other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold by a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area to an authorized bank in Ireland. Balances on these accounts may be t rans fe r red f ree ly to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds not eligible for transfer that are due to persons resident outside the Sterling Area.3 These funds arise from such sources as the sale of Irish securities, proceeds f rom sales of real estate exceeding £1,000, and the Irish estates of persons who at the time of death were resident outside the Sterling Area. Funds in these accounts may be invested through the stock exchange in Irish or sterling securities which cannot be redeemed within five years from the date of investment. They may also be used for expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly du r ing visits to Ireland and for the upkeep of the account holder's property in Ireland. Balances on Blocked Accounts may be t rans fe r red free ly to other Blocked Accounts in Ireland or in the United Kingdom. Holders of Blocked Accounts may avail themselves of fac i l i t ies for the sale of funds in such accounts at the preva i l ing price for blocked sterling (norma l ly at a slight discount). Accounts held by or on beha lf of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Imports and Import Payments The import of goods into Ireland is sub ject to two types of adminis- trative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of commodities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of certain commodities are sub ject to quantitative restrictions which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis. Ind iv idual import licenses are required for these goods and are used to limit the quantity of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain textiles originating in any of 16 specified countries or terri- 8 Residents of Denmark, the Faroe Islands, Greenland, Norway, and Sweden may transfer their capital freely to their respective countries, so that Blocked Accounts are not applicable to residents of these countries. 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND tories.4 All other imports are f ree of import licensing.5 Under the other type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area, if they are not to be used in Ireland or are to be delivered more than nine months a f ter the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted automati- cally. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceed- ing £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. A temporary import levy is applied to imports of certain finished consumer goods; the basic rate is 15 per cent ad valorem, while a preferential rate of 10 per cent applies to most of these items when of ILK. origin, to all of these items when of Canadian origin, and to wines of South A f r ican origin. Imports are exempt when shipped f rom, and originating in, Northern Ireland. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Approval to make payments for most invisibles is given by the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tourist travel outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allowance of £250 a person for each trip. For business travel, up to £1,500 is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applica- tions for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Persons traveling to destinations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodes ia) may take with them up to £25 in Sterling Area currency notes and £250 in other currency notes; travelers who are resident outside the Sterling Area may take with them in addition any foreign currency that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. 4 These are Bulgaria, Mainland China, the Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pakistan, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 6 With effect f rom January 21, 1966, the importation of goods from Rhodesia was prohibited except under license. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling Area must obtain payment for the goods within six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £100. When payment is received in specified curren- cies, the exchange must be sold to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Exports of manu fac tu red goods to the United Kingdom receive "market development grants" of up to 50 per cent of the U.K. temporary import charge levied on such goods. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles, but if specified currencies are received they must be sold to an authorized bank or permission for their retention must be obtained. Any fo re ign exchange held by a person af ter his return f rom a trip abroad may be retained for three months f rom the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent trip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or fore ign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all transfers of capital to countries outside the Sterling Area. Applications by emigrants are approved up to a limit of £5,000 a f am i l y; those f rom other persons are considered on their merits. Incoming capital received in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Investment currency, i.e., the proceeds f rom the sale of non-Sterling Area securities 6 sold outside the Sterling Area, may be fu l ly reinvested in non-Sterling Area securities, provided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" f rom securities so held, and that the investment is carried out within six months f rom the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with investment currency on or a f ter April 7,1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate. In certain cases, the proceeds f rom the sale of direct investments outside the Sterling Area are eligible for investment in non-Sterling Area securities, provided that 25 per cent of such proceeds is sur- rendered at the o f f ic ial rate. The proceeds f rom the sale of real estate situated outside the Sterling Area (property currency) may be used, subject to ind iv idual permission, to purchase for personal use real 6 Non-Sterling Area securities are all securities expressed in the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than the Rhodesian pound. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND estate outside the Sterling Area. Transactions in securities are con- trolled to ensure that capital is not t rans fe r red outside the Sterling Area. Dealings in Irish registered securities are permitted free ly between residents of the Sterling Area. Changes during 1965 January 6. Special quota restrictions were introduced, on a global basis, on imports of certain textiles f rom 16 countries or territories. As a consequence of this measure, imports of these goods f rom other countries now required a certificate of origin. April 6. The fo l low ing categories of fore ign currency receipts ceased to be eligible for disposal through the investment currency ma rke t: g if ts of securities, inc lud ing g i f ts to char i t ies; receipts under wills and trusts; assets acquired by nationals of countries outside the Sterling Area subsequent to their designation as Irish residents; and pensions payable to Irish residents by fore ign governments. April 12. Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were declared specified currencies. April 12. The amount of Sterling Area currency notes.that travelers to destinations outside the United Kingdom could take out free ly was reduced from £50 to £25. The normal max imum a l lowance for business travel was reduced from £2,500 to £1,500 for each trip. Passport ma rk ing was reintroduced in all instances where fore ign exchange fac i l i t ies for travel outside the Sterling Area were provided. April 12. Investment currency was no longer made available for purchases of property for personal use outside the Sterling Area. Such purchases could, subject to individual approval, be made with property currency. Payments for all a t tendant expenses also had to be made with property currency, but exchange at the off ic ial rate would be made ava i lab le for ma in tenance. April 21. Twenty-five per cent of the fo re ign currency proceeds f rom the sale or the redemption of securities acquired with investment currency on or a f t er April 7, 1965 and payable, or optionally payab le, in a specified currency had to be surrendered at the off ic ial rate. From the same date, no other category of specified currency receipts could be treated as investment cu r rency, with the exception of certain funds brought in by persons f rom outside the Sterling Area taking up per- manent residence in Ireland (to be determined in each case by the Department of F in an c e ), and the foreign currency proceeds of mort- gages, real estate, m ineral rights (excluding roya l t ies ), and l i fe and endowment policies (but not annuities payable under such policies). 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND May 3. The Minister of Finance delegated to the Central Bank the day-to-day administration of exchange control. July 29. The fo l low ing categories of fore ign currency receipts by Irish residents ceased to be eligible for disposal through the investment currency market: (1) capital proceeds of l i fe and endowment policies and mineral rights; (2) cash balances brought in by persons from outside the Sterling Area taking up permanent residence in Ire land; and (3) savings f rom earnings of persons who had been employed out- side the Sterling Area. The proceeds of fore ign currency securities had to be exchanged at the off ic ial rate, if such securities were owned by persons f rom outside the Sterling Area taking up permanent residence in Ireland and were held by them for less than two years f rom the date on which they took up permanent residence, or if the securities were acquired by any resident of Ireland f rom any such person. August 6. The foreign currency proceeds of mortgages and real estate no longer were eligible for reinvestment or disposal through the investment currency market. All applications for permission to treat as investment currency the sale or liquidation proceeds of direct invest- ments outside the Sterling Area had to be submitted to the Central Bank. Immigrants who had not completed two years' residence in Ireland had to exchange at the off ic ial rate the total proceeds of any fore ign currency securities sold by them. September 10. The 25 per cent requirement was extended to all foreign currency securities instead of those payable, or optionally payable, in a specified currency. It was confirmed that the foreign currency proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Sterling Area could, in certain cases (to be determined in each case by the Central Bank) be dealt with in the same manner as the foreign currency proceeds f rom the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities, and it was announced that no other category of foreign currency receipts could be treated as investment currency. November 2. A temporary import levy was imposed for ba lance of payments reasons on certain finished consumer goods; the basic rate was 15 per cent ad valorem and the p re fe ren t ial rate 10 per cent. The order imposing the levy would expire on March 31, 1966. November 18. Rhodesia was excluded f rom the list of Sterling Area countries as defined in the Irish exchange control regulations. November 26. Imports f rom Northern Ireland were exempt f rom the special import levy. November 80. The authorized banks were in fo rmed that accounts of residents of Rhodesia should be designated as Rhodesian Accounts; approval of the Central Bank was required for all debits and credits to 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND these accounts and for the opening of an account by, or on behalf of, a resident of Rhodesia. Approval of the Central Bank also was required for all transactions in Rhodesian pounds, any transactions in securities to which a person resident in Rhodesia was a party, any transaction affecting securities held by or on behalf of a resident of Rhodesia, and all dealings in securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. The latter, were now considered foreign currency securities but were not covered by the existing permissions and instructions concerning fore ign cur- rency securities. December 14- An Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement and related agreements were signed, the former to become effective on July 1,1966. NOTE.—The fo l low ing changes occurred early in 1966: January 21. Exchange control regulations removed, with respect to Rhodesia, the general exchange control exemptions applicable to territories outside the Sterling Area. The new regulations had the effect that payments for imports of goods and services f rom Rhodesia required the approval of the Central Bank, that currency notes could not be exported by travelers to Rhodesia except as permitted by the Central Bank, and that exports to Rhodesia must be paid for in a specified currency. January 21. By an Order made under the Restriction of Imports Act, 1962, the importation of goods f rom Rhodesia was prohibited except under license. March 31. The temporary import levy imposed on November 2, 1965 was continued in operation un t il June 30, 1966, when the position would be reviewed. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rate System The par value is Israel Pounds 3.00 = US$1. All exchange trans- actions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange in cooperation with other gov- ernment agencies, and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with coun- tries with wh ich payments agreements are in fo rce x are usually made in U.S. dollars or sterling as accounting units. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on fore ign currency accounts or on local currency accounts. A nonresident abroad may use his foreign currency account f r e e l y; when in Israel, he may convert funds held on the account into local currency at the off ic ial rate. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: (1) Registered Accounts— for foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies and for fo rmer residents —may be established only with special approval. Avia- tion, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the o f f ic ial rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to requ iremen ts; film companies may do so under individual arrangements made with each company. Registered Account funds held by former residents may be used for investment in listed Israel securities, for purchase of real estate, for tourist expenses in Israel up to an amount of I£100 a day for the account holder and for each member of his f am i l y, for remittances of up to I£2,500 in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the payment of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to pub l ic and charitable institutions. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be t rans fe r red. (2) Blocked Accounts may be used to hold funds derived from former investments which are not eligible for 1 Israel has bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Ruman ia, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. There also is an inoperative payments agreement with Cuba. 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL transfer at the off ic ial rate and funds le ft behind in Israel by tourists. Balances may not be transferred f rom one nonresident to another, but the accounts may be liquidated by purchas ing foreign securities against Israel pounds and selling them abroad against foreign exchange. Otherwise, Blocked Accounts may be used within Israel for the same purposes as Registered Accounts but no limit is placed on the amounts that may be withdrawn. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are prohibited f rom all sources. Importers of goods listed in the Free Import Orders (nearly one half of total imports in 1965) must be approved as importers by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. These goods are free of all licensing and restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Auto- matic Approval List (more than one third of total impo r ts ), licenses are issued automatically upon application. All individual import licenses must be countersigned by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance. The currency and method of payment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. Seven basic food products are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government of Israel. Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Import Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted automatically. An import license may prescribe whether, if payment is to be made by documentary credit, the f u ll amount of fore ign currency required must be purchased at the time of opening the c red i t; in such cases, funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel until t rans fer is made. With the exception of govern- ment agencies and persons importing for export, importers utilizing credit facilities must, at the time of opening the credit, deposit 50 per cent of the cost of the goods. Licenses are issued for imports of goods on consignment, provided that the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 within three months and undertakes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods with the Accountant General through an authorized bank. An importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for all imports effected under foreign credits. Payments for Invisibles Most payments abroad for invisibles require individual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equivalent to US$30, which is obtainable on demand, for the purchase of books, membership dues, 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL etc., and US$50 for certain other purposes (e.g., registration in a un ivers i ty). For tourist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equivalent to US$500 a traveler for each jou rney. Not more than I£100 in Israel banknotes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through au thor ized dealers part of the same fo re ign currency they previously exchanged into Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of I£900. Resi- dents traveling abroad must pay a travel t ax; the tax is LE255 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket for travel by sea, and I£290 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket for travel by air. Exporters doing more than US$100,000 of export business a year are exempt from travel tax on business trips. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports do not require licenses. For some commodities, how- ever, export licensing is retained for the purpose of quality control. The Ministry of Commerce and Industry maintains a check on export transactions with a low value-added content which are made with bilateral partners: this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be surrendered or held on a PAZAK account (see section on Proceeds f rom Invisibles, be low ). Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must, in general, be surrendered. Alternatively, they may be kept in foreign exchange on PAZAK accounts, balances on which may be exchanged into Israel currency at any time or used to make authorized payments. One third of the foreign exchange received by residents of Israel as restitution payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be retained in TAMAM accounts (see section on Capital, be low). For ten years a f ter entering Israel, new immigrants are exempt from surrendering their fore ign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these currencies with authorized banks in Israel or with banks abroad. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. Not more than I£100 in Israel banknotes may be brought in by travelers. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I£100 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of their fam i l ies; if they are holders of Blocked Accounts, they may draw on these without limit. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital has to be surrendered at the off ic ial rate or held in a PAZAK account (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, above ). Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treat- ment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of August 16, 1959, which permits a nonresident who has made an "approved" investment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the off ic ial rate. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be transferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be withdrawn in five equal annual installments; if the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be with- drawn immediately. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of production that undertake to export half their output, that provide for a significant degree of import sub- stitution, or that create desirable employment in the development areas of Galilee and the Negev. Foreign investments made in Israel without taking advantage of the 1959 law do not benefit from these transfer privileges, but most old investments have in fact been recognized as "approved" investments. Interest and dividends on bonds or shares registered on the stock exchange which have been purchased by non- residents with exchange converted at the off ic ial rate may be trans- ferred abroad in foreign currency at the off ic ial ra te; this applies also to amounts received through sales of such shares. Payments due to nonresidents and not permitted to be transferred abroad may be credited to Registered Accounts or Blocked Accounts, subject to prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisibles. New immigrants may, for ten years f rom the date on which they first entered, retain their foreign assets and use them freely. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents are generally not permitted. Holders of TAMAM accounts may use them to purchase abroad, for themselves or their families, foreign securities quoted on an official stock exchange and, subject to submission of evidence to the authorized bank maintaining the account, for legal costs in respect of restitution payments and for travel expenses abroad exceeding the basic travel exchange allocation of US$500. Foreign securities purchased by debit- ing a TAMAM account may be sold abroad for foreign currency and the proceeds again credited to a TAMAM account, or the securities may be sold to other residents against payment in Israel pounds. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Changes during 1965 During the year on various dates import restrictions were fur ther relaxed by the addition of commodities to the Free Import Orders or the Automatic Approval List and by deletion of commodities f rom the list of prohibited imports. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Italian Lire 625.00 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between off ic ial limits of Lit 620.50 buying, and Lit 629.50 selling, per US$1. Market rates for certain other currencies 2 vary between limits which result from combining the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Italy and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currencies, and in forward exchange transactions in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, and externally convert- ible European currencies. Transactions in fore ign banknotes take place at freely negotiated rates. Italy accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Ufficio Italiano dei Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and of the Intel-ministerial Credit Committee. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements with foreign countries may be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or in lire on Foreign Accounts. 1 In view of a change that took place on January 22, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. "These currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxembourg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, and Swiss francs. They are referred to in this survey as externally convertible European currencies. 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts, for current transactions and Italian investments abroad, and Capital Accounts, for fore ign investments in Italy. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts, f rom Capital Accounts, and f rom Special Accounts under Law No. 43, with authorized current and capital payments, with payments for approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds f rom sales of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account under Law No. 43, for payments to residents of Italy for current and capital transactions, and for payments due to residents of Italy on account of their disinvestments abroad. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts, f rom Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, and f rom other Capital Accounts, with Italian banknotes sent to Italy by banks abroad, and with the proceeds, f rom the liquidation of foreign invest- ments in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 (see be low). They may be debited for transfers to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates, and for the purchase of investments. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy convertible currencies or externally convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-mentioned law. These accounts may be credited with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts or from other Special Accounts and with the proceeds f rom sales of investments that have been made in accordance with Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was originally sold and for investments in Italy, and balances on them may^ be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or to any other Special Account under Law No. 43. Imports and Import Payments Imports of tobacco and sugar f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Prac- tically all imports f rom other countries except Japan and the Sino- 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Soviet area are free of quantitative restriction. Commodities that still require individual licenses when imported f rom these other countries are included in a negative list (Tabella A Import), which includes goods listed under 55 tar iff headings or their parts —of these 20 relate to agricultural products and foods tu f fs. However, the general permis- sion to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to Somalia, the United A rab Repub l ic, and Yugoslavia only if the goods originate in and are shipped direct f rom one of these countries; in addition, in respect of imports f rom the United A rab Republic, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. A more extensive list (Tabella B Import) contains those commodi- ties which require an individual license when imported f rom the Sino- Soviet area. The list includes 110 tar iff items or subitems related to agricultural products and foods tu f fs, and about 840 tar iff items or subitems related to other goods. Special lists contain those commodities on the Tabella B Import which may be imported f ree ly f rom some of the countries 3 to which the Tabella B Import applies, provided that the goods originate in and are shipped f rom one of these countries. A separate negative list applies to Japan indicating the goods (listed under 96 tar iff items or their parts) that are subject to individual import licensing when imported f rom that country. A special list contains those commodities (at present comprising 100 tar iff items or subitems) for which import licenses are issued freely. All other goods f rom Japan may be imported f ree ly, provided that they originate in that country, irrespective of provenance. For imports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, no exchange control form is required; for imports f rom Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000 in value, a fo rm completed by the importer is requ ired; for imports over Lit 500,000 in value, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a nonresident account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, be low). International postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, or any lower amount within the limits established for each country to which this service is provided; amounts in excess of Lit 250,000 must be approved by the representa- tive of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. 8 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authorization, how- ever, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange f ree ly, provided that the necessary documents are submitted, although for certain transac t ions4 there are limits beyond which the banks may make payments only a f ter examination of the supporting documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Exchange is granted freely for remittances of earnings on investments. Residents may use international postal money orders for f inanc ial payments in the currency and within the limits established for each coun try; for payments exceeding Lit 250,000, however, prior authorization is required by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Certain transactions (but not the related payments) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the Ministry of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts wh ich require a permit if they involve residents of specified countries 5 and (2) contracts which require a permit regard- less of the nationality of the nonresidents involved. The first group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for chartering of ships (exc lud ing charters for a single tr ip) ; repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents ( f or amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same p a y e e ); purchase of publication rights, informa t ion agencies, etc. ( f or amounts exceeding Lit 5 million per con t rac t ); copyrights ( f or amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year per con t rac t ); services of professional workers and company managers ( f or amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l i o n ); and services of entertainers and athletes ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion ). The second group includes transactions giving rise to expenditures for production abroad of films and advertising shorts; utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; civil liability insurance; insur- ance of ships and a i rc ra ft against risks of operation; brokerage for merchandise transactions, whenever the settlement is made af ter the end of the year fo l low ing that in which the export or import took p lace ;6 and other transactions not permitted by general authorization. * I.e., brokerage on merchandise and remittances for medical expenses and family maintenance and for subventions. 5 A lban ia, Bhu tan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Mainland China (including Mongolia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Indonesia, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for chartering of ships) Yugoslavia. 6 Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Residents trave l ing to foreign countries may obtain f rom the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 500,000 for each tr ip for tourism, business, and educa t ion; banks are au thor ized to supply fore ign exchange above these allowances, provided that they are satisfied that no unau thor ized capital transfer is involved. Any person traveling abroad may take with him Lit 50,000 in I ta l ian banknotes, and to the extent that he re f ra ins f rom obtaining an allocation of fore ign exchange, he may take in addition a proportionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to Lit 500,000. Exports and Export Proceeds A few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 250,000 in value, no exchange control form is requ i red; for exports f rom Lit 250,000 to Lit 500,000 in va lue, a fo rm completed by the exporter is requ i red; for exports exceeding Lit 500,000 in va lue, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. Unless special approval is obtained for d i f fe rent terms of payment (see section on Cap i ta l, b e l ow ), exchange receipts must be collected w i th in one year of the arr ival of the goods in the country of destination, and they must be offered for sale to an au thor ized bank within seven days of receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by autho- rized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for six months, du r ing which period such balances may be used for permitted transac t ions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them f ree ly with the I ta l ian Exchange Off ice or among themselves. A f t er expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Italian Exchange Office at the lowest official exchange rate quoted du r ing the retention period (these off ic ial rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and R om e ). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to amounts within the limits established for individual countries. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles are sub ject to the same requirements as receipts from exports. Shipping and insurance companies and travel and fo rwa rd ing agencies may keep operating accounts in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of Lit 100,000 in fore ign banknotes and coins left over f rom trips abroad and may use this 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any time to an authorized bank. Persons may bring in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free. However, loans of any kind f rom nonresidents to residents and f rom residents to nonresidents require specific authorization f rom the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respec- tively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long-term loans for the purpose of establishing or ma in ta in ing lasting economic relations; loans to relatives up to the th ird degree of relationship, provided that the amount does not exceed the limit of Lit 10 m i l l ion; and, with regard to EEC countries, short-term and medium-term (up to 5 years) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected with commercial operations or the performance of services) that do not exceed Lit 50 million; for none of these is any kind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made f ree ly, provided that it is in accordance with the repayment schedule authorized by the above-named ministries when the loan was approved. Direct investment in OECD countries, by ind iv idual or ju r id ical persons, is permitted in any fo rm and without any limit. Direct invest- ment in other countries may only be made by ju r id ical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm making the investment; other types of direct investment in such countries require special authorization f rom the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for this purpose of the liquidation of previous investments ( a f t er crediting the proceeds of the disinvest- ment to bank accounts similar to those established for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Residents of Italy are f ree to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities have to be deposited with an Italian bank or with a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the Italian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and subsequently that of the Interministerial Credit Committee; such issues are subject to the rules governing the issue in Italy of Italian securities. Transfers in connection with donations, inheritances, and dowries may be made free ly. The t rans fer of property of permanent emigrants 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY is allowed in two steps: up to the equivalent of Lit 4 million a person upon presentation of specified documents at the time of leaving Italy (plus Lit 50,000 in I ta l ian bankno tes ), and the remainder when residence has been established abroad. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the pe r fo rmance of services. Advance payments for imports may be made free ly if importation is to take place within 90 days; such payments require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if importation is to take place between 90 days and 360 days f rom the date of payment and must be in accordance with normal commercial prac t ice; in all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Deferred payments for imports are per- mitted free ly if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days a f ter importation, and the balance within 24 months a f t er impo r ta t ion; such payments require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months after importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade is required. Advance payments for exports may be received f ree ly if exportation is to take p lace within 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred payments for exports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days a f ter exportation, and the balance within 24 months a f ter expor ta t ion; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Virtually identical regulations are in force for the permitted credit terms for imports and exports of services. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal granting of credits for commercial transactions or the pe r fo rmance of services, with a maturity longer than the time limits that banks are authorized to approve and up to 5 years, may be effected a f ter examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Loans and credits not connected with commercial transactions or with the pe r fo rmance of services require the approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. However, financial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries, provided that the duration of such loans or credits does not exceed 5 years, that the total amount out- standing for a resident is not more than Lit 50 million, and that the rate of interest on a credit taken up by a resident f rom a nonresident does not exceed 6 per cent per annum; the authorized banks have been granted a general license to approve such transactions. 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY The export is not permitted of securities, except those which are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or externally convertible European currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or Capital Account. Changes during 1965 January 1. The State banana monopoly was abolished. Imports of bananas required a license, a temporary quota system for banana imports was introduced, and a consumption tax of Lit 70 per kilogram was imposed on bananas f rom all sources. The initial annual quota was set at 1.8 million quintals, of which one ha lf was reserved for imports f rom Somalia; two other quotas were opened, one for EEC countries and associated countries and. territories, the other for all other countries. January 16. Payments for all imports of goods and services could be made within 90 days preceding or fo l low ing arrival of the goods or the pe r fo rmance of the .service; previously, payments for specified consumer durable goods had to be made within 30 days preceding or following arrival of the goods. Furthermore, requests for the authoriza- tion of credits preceding the date of importation by between 90 days and 180 days could now be submitted to the Italian Exchange Office for authorization, while requests for authorization of credits preceding the date of importation by more than 180 days could be submitted to the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Prior examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office was required if credits were to be taken up for a period of between 90 days and 360 days fo l low ing the importation of the goods. Requests for the authorization of credits for a period exceeding 360 days fo l low ing the importation of goods could be submitted to the Ministry of Trade for approval, except for credits taken up for imports from EEC countries for a period of between 90 days and 5 years fo l low ing the importation of goods, for which the approval of the Italian Exchange Office was required. The prior approval of the Exchange Office was not required when 90 per cent of the import payment would be made within 90 days of arrival and the rema in ing 10 per cent within 24 months. Payments for exports of goods and services were required to be collected within 360 days; longer credit terms required prior approval, either f rom the Ministry of Foreign Trade or, for credits up to 5 years granted to residents of other EEC countries, f rom the Italian Exchange Office. March 11. Authorized banks, notaries, and public off ic ia ls were hencefor th required to report to the Italian Exchange Office all invest- ment operations of foreign capital in Italy in which they intervened, 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY specifying the amount and na ture of the operation and the currency received. Notification was required within 60 days of each investment operation. Furthermore, companies operating in Italy were required to in fo rm the Italian Exchange Office, also within 60 days, of all sales of shares or participation quotas to foreigners or to Italian citizens residing abroad. Previously, these notifications were required to be made within 30 days. March 16. The power of the authorized banks to approve financial loans granted to or by residents of EEC countries was reduced f rom Lit 50 million for each transaction to a total of Lit 50 million for each resident, and banks were required to no t i fy such operations to the Italian Exchange Office. March 16. Advance payments for imports could be made free ly if importation were to take p lace within 90 days; such payments required the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if importation were to take place between 90 days and 360 days f rom the date of paymen t, provided that the advance payment was in accordance with normal commercial practice and required the prior approval of the Minister of Foreign Trade in all other cases. Deferred payments for imports could be made free ly if settlement were to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days a f ter importation, and the balance within 24 mon ths; such payments required the prior approval of the I ta l ian Exchange Office if the settlement were to take place between 12 months and 24 months a f ter importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade was required. Advance payments for exports could be received freely if exportation were to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts required the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred payments for exports could be received freely if settlement were to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days af ter exportation, and the balance within 24 mon ths; in all other cases, such receipts required the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade. Corresponding amendments, with virtually identical approval and payment terms, were made to the regulations concerning imports and exports of services. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal granting of credits for commercial operations or the performance of services, with maturities beyond the time limits that banks are author- ized to approve and up to 5 years, might be effected a f ter examination of the documents concerned by the Italian Exchange Office. June 24. Subject to the prior authorization of the Italian Exchange Office, residents could engage in fo rwa rd transactions in silver on the London bullion market. 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY August 1. In accordance with a new trade agreement with Japan, the import of 26 additional items f rom Japan was liberalized, reducing the nonliberalized list for Japan to 96 items. September 18. The Spanish peseta was off ic ia l ly quoted and included among the conto valutario currencies. October 1. In accordance with the trade agreement with Japan (see August 1, above ), new or increased quotas for the period to Apr il 1, 1966 came into operation for restricted imports f rom Japan. December 9. The import of tobacco and sugar f rom Rhodesia was suspended. NOTE. —The fo l low ing change took place early in 1966: January 22. Direct investment in the OECD area was permitted in the fo l low ing fo rm s: (1) participations by ju r id ical persons (other than f inanc ial institutions) in firms with a line of business different f rom that of the person acquiring the participation, and (2) participa- tions by physical persons. In some cases, such direct investment required examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Long-term loans in the OECD area wh ich have the character of participations by physical or ju r id ical persons were liberalized, with the exception of the disbursement of the loans of financial institutions. The fo l low ing also were f ree ly permitted for OECD countries: (1) outward transfers in respect of legacies, gifts, endowments (except those in the fo rm of Italian Treasury b i l l s ), lottery winnings, etc., and (2) inward and outward t rans fe rs in settlement of debts of immigrants and emigrants, provided that th e -d eb ts were contracted be fo re immi- gration or emigration. Inward and outward t ran s fe rs in respect of loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship resident in OECD countries were free ly permitted, up to Lit 10 million for each beneficiary. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA f r a n c, wh ich is o f f ic ia l ly maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r a n c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take p lace at rates resulting f rom the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of External Finance and Credit of the Ministry of Economic and F inanc ial A f fa i r s. Foreign exchange transactions are hand led by au thor ized banks under the direction of the Department of External Finance and Credit. Global annual programs for imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are coordinated by the Ministry of Econom ic and F inanc ial A f fa i r s. Import licenses ( f or imports sub ject to quotas) are issued by the Foreign Trade Depar tmen t, a f t er check ing and approval of the terms of payment by the Department of Ex ternal F inance and Credit (Bureau of Exchange Ope ra t ions ). Import cer t if ica tes ( f or imports not subject to quota restrictions) are approved by the Department of External Finance and Credit (Bureau of Exchange Opera t ions). Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is a member of the French Franc A rea, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries that are quoted on the Paris exchange ma rke t; they may also be made through Foreign Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Foreign Accounts and INR Accounts. Foreign Accounts apply to na t iona ls of countries l rThe CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de I'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST outside the French Franc Area who reside outside the Area or to nationals of French Franc Area countries who have resided outside the Area for more than two years. INR Accounts (interieurs de non- residents) apply to nationals of French Franc Area countries who have resided outside the Area for less than two years and to nationals of countries outside the Area who have resided w i th in the Area for less than two years. Balances in Foreign Accounts are fu l ly convertible. Balances in INR Accounts are only transferable between INR Accounts; any rema in ing balance may be transferred abroad when the holder gives up his ties with the French Franc Area permanently. Imports and Import Payments A few imports f rom all sources are prohibited or restricted. All other imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports f rom countries outside the Area may be made in accordance with an import program, wh ich is determined annua l ly by the Department of Foreign Trade. Under this program, semiannual global quotas are established for imports f rom EEC countries other than France and for imports f r om all o ther countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas establish limits up to wh ich import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed importers and, in exceptional cases, to indus t r ial or ag r icu l tu ral producers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. Certain products, contained in a l ibera l ized list, may be imported f ree ly f rom countries outside the French Franc Area. Private persons cannot obtain import licenses, except for transactions not requiring foreign exchange. For certain goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary fore ign exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f r e e ly; those to countries outside that Area are subject to certain restrictions and require the approval of the Department of External Finance and Credit. Payments for invisibles related to trade transactions are permitted f ree ly when the basic transaction has been approved. Payments for transportation costs may be made f r e e ly; for payments abroad for insurance, the approval of the Director of Insurance is requ ired. The exchange allowances are as fo l lows: for tourism, up to the equivalent of CFAF 125,000 a yea r; for business travel, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 for each t r ip; for fam i ly 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST support, up to the equivalent of CFAF 27,500 a month for each beneficiary. In all cases, supplementary allowances may be given, provided that the applicant presents reasonable jus t i f ica t ion. Income accru ing to nonresidents f rom profits, dividends, various kinds of royalties, etc., may be remitted abroad, subject to verification. Pay- ments in respect of many other categories of invisibles are also permitted subject to ve r i f ica t ion. Nonresident workers in Ivory Coast may remit abroad, mon th ly, 50 per cent of their salaries. Travelers to Dahomey, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue w i th in the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for wh ich the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a max imum of F 1,000 in French francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP f ranc s, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any other French Franc Area currency. Nonresident travelers may take out fore ign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f r e e ly; exports to all other countries require licenses, ma in ly to ensure repatriation of the proceeds. For certain export commodities subject to international quotas, the export license must be accompanied by an authorization issued by the organ iza t ion responsible for the manage- ment of the quota. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area must be surrendered in the ir entirety w i th in three months f rom the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts in respect of services, interest, and income due f rom residents of other countries must be collected and must be surrendered within three months of receipt. Travelers may bring in without limit CFA or other banknotes and coins (exc lud ing gold co in s ), w i th the exception of Guinean and Malian currencies. Imported foreign bankno tes must be declared to the customs authorities and must be surrendered to an authorized bank within one month. 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Capital Capital movements between Ivory Coast and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of con t ro l; those between Ivory Coast and all other countries are sub ject to au tho r iza t ion. Foreign investment in Ivory Coast is subject to prior approval by the Department of External Finance and Cred i t; approval depends on the nature and purpose of the proposed investment, a liberal policy being fo l lowed in th is respect. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 provides tax and customs du ty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as hav ing priority status. Changes during 1965 March L Settlements w i th Rum an ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the b i la teral payments agreement between France and Ruman ia, wh ich was also app l icab le to Ivory Coast, was terminated. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Jama ican Pound 1 = US$2.80. The currency is free ly convertible into sterling at parity, sub ject to banking commis- sions. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the buying and selling rates in the London market. The Bank of Jamaica is authorized by law to levy a commission charge of up to % of 1 per cent on inward and outward t r an s f e r s; at present, these charges are %6 of 1 per cent on inward t rans fe rs and % of 1 per cent on outward trans- fers. Jamaica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, sub ject to certain limitations in respect of which the approval of the Ministry is required. The commercial banks are designated as authorized dealers and have authority to release foreign exchange for imports, basic travel allowances, and certain other payments. Imports are regulated by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Jamaica is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of other Sterling Area countries. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made f ree ly in any Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting Jama ican pounds to an Ex- ternal Account or in any fore ign currency. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be received to the debit of an External Account, or in any specified currency,1 or in any other fo re ign cur- rency that is free ly exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations, however, apply to settlements with Rhodesia, and all payments to Rhodesia require specific authorization. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Jamaica and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area. xT he specified currencies are listed as Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA The commercial banks are empowered to open External Accounts in Jama ican pounds for residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. The funds on these accounts are treated as equivalent to Exter- nal Account sterling and may be t rans fe r red freely between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area approved by the exchange control authority, with t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or fore ign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., proceeds f rom the sale of sterling and Jamaican pound securities or other capital proceeds) are desig- nated Blocked Accounts. Permission may be given for these f u n ds to be transferred to London, where their disposal is subject to the approval of the U.K. exchange control authorities. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Sterling Area securities wh ich are not redeemable either optionally or contractually w i th in five years f rom the date of acquisi- tion; the income f rom such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are norma l ly available for credit to an External Account. Applications for the release of funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jama ica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jama ica. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported f ree ly under an open general license.2 Other imports, i.e., some 120 ta r i ff items or groups of tar iff items included in a special schedule and all imports originating in Japan, the Sino-Soviet area, Rhodesia, South A f r i c a, or Cuba, require indi- vidual import licenses. Licenses for imports from Japan are issued according to criteria of essentiality. The special schedule comprises (1) goods for which specific quotas are assigned to importers according to their past performance, e.g., footwear and detergents ( for these items vouchers are issued to importers on the basis of which licenses are granted by the Trade Adm in i s t ra to r ); (2) goods which are pro- hibited, e.g., canned milk, cement, cheap clothing, sugar, and coffee; and (3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local supply, e.g., pou l try, eggs, and vegetables. 2 The open general license applies to all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, South Africa, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the permitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Payments for imports from the Sterling Area may be made free ly in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports f rom other countries may be made by crediting an External Account or by purchasing foreign exchange from an authorized dealer, provided that the licens- ing requirements, if any, have been met, and that the importer presents a copy of the settlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under contract to make prepayment up to six months prior to ship- ment; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments preceding shipment by more than six months. Certain imports f rom all sources are subject to a 2% per cent consumption tax levied on the sum of customs value, customs duty, and tonnage tax. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles originating in the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for invisibles originating outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions involving residents- of Rhodesia, the fo l low ing applies. Approval is granted f ree ly for payments for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. For payments for certain other purposes, e.g., insurance premiums, approval is granted upon request. A basic exchange allocation of £J 250 for each journey for travel outside the Sterling Area is made available automatically to residents by the authorized dealers, and additional amounts for travel will be approved by the Bank of Jama ica upon presentation of satis- factory documentation (e.g., tickets, hotel reservations, and estimates of daily expenditures). Moreover, authorized dealers may, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence, sell foreign exchange for the fo l low ing: cash gifts of up to £J 250 annually f rom each donor; re funds of income tax due to nonresidents; consular fees without limit, as well as transfers f rom the Ministry of External A f fa i rs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established s taffs, High Commis- sioners, and d ip loma ts; up to a limit of £J 1,000 for (1) advertising and promotional expenses, (2) renewal and re fund of premiums due to nonresident insurers, and (3) subscriptions to trade organizations; up to a limit of £J 2,000 for commissions and expenses due by Jamaican firms to their agents and representatives and for serial rights in Jamaica of newspaper and magaz ine articles, photographs, strip car- toons, etc.; specified payments, up to a limit of £J 2,500, that are due by Jama ican insurers to nonresident insured parties under l i fe or 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA endowment insurance policies; agents' expenses and fees, up to £J 2,500, due by Jamaican insurers to nonresidents in respect of direct insurance policies. Authorized dealers may, without reference to the exchange control authorities, make loans or overdrafts to nonresident individuals and nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled Jamaican companies, up to £J 1,000 and £J 10,000, respectively. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. , Travelers going abroad may take with them Jamaican banknotes not exceeding £J 10 and other notes, with the exception of U.K. notes, not exceeding £J 100 in value. Nonresidents may take out the fore ign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to countries outside the Sterling Area require export licenses. Certain other exports require individual licenses irrespective of destination; these include all re-exports and some exports (mostly agricultural products) that are subject to licensing to ensure adequate local supplies. Exporters to countries in the Sterling Area are not required to repatriate their export proceeds; exporters to other coun- tries are required to surrender their exchange proceeds, which must be obtained in one of the specified currencies, to authorized dealers within six months f rom the date of shipment. However, certain exporters may retain, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to fac i l i ta te the import of items necessary for their operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Receipts in other currencies may be retained. Travelers to Jamaica may not bring in Jamaican and/or U.K. bank- notes of an aggregate value exceeding £J 10 (i.e., £ stg. 10); nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of non-Sterling Area banknotes. Capital There are no restrictions on investments in the Sterling Area by residents. Investments in non-Sterling Area securities require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such securities may only be purchased in the United Kingdom with investment currency. The sale of securities by residents to nonresidents may be allowed, provided that the fu ll proceeds are received in External Account sterling or in foreign currency; the latter must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Jamaica. Purchases of property for personal use 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such property may be purchased only through the United Kingdom and only with property currency. Direct investments in the Sterling Area may be made free ly by residents. Direct investments in other countries are only permitted through the investment currency market in the United Kingdom. Direct investments in Jamaica by nonresidents for which "approved status" is sought require the approval of the exchange control authori- ties (which is usually granted) and must be made in; the currency appropriate to the country of permanent residence of the investor or in External Account sterling. To qu a l i fy for "approved status," an enterprise must have adequate capital and the nonresident investor must take an active part in management. For foreign investments granted "approved status," repatriation of the capital (including any appreciation in va lue) is permitted at any t ime; remittances of profits and dividends are permitted when the application is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. Remittances of profits resulting f rom fo re ign investment in respect of which "approved status" was not sought or granted are not restricted, but the realization of the invested capital (if the enterprise is bought by a resident) has to take place through Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Payments for amortization of, and interest on, foreign loans (i.e., loans made by nonresidents of the Sterling A rea) are permitted upon application to the exchange control authorities. However, nonresidents are not normally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Bank loans or overdrafts of £J 10,000 or more in favor of nonresident-controlled companies in Jama ica require exchange control approval. Transfers to nonresident beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been met. Changes during 1965 During the year, many imports were added to the list of exceptions to the open general license; only the principal instances are listed below. February 24. Imports of raw tobacco required a specific license. April 1. Imports of upholstered fu rn i tu re, cosmetics, and peanuts required a specific license. April 7. All imports from Japan required a specific license. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA April 7. Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were listed as specified currencies. April 23. The import of automobiles with a wheel base of over 115 inches was prohibited. June 4- The Bank of Jamaica's commission charge on outward transfers was reduced f rom % to % of 1 per cent. June 8. A consumption tax of 2% per cent was levied on certain goods, whether imported or domestically produced. July 1. Imports of sugar m i l l ing machinery and parts required a specific license. July 27. All direct investment outside the Sterling Area was required to be financed with investment currency or by borrowing outside the Sterling Area. Off ic ial exchange was no longer provided for such invest- ment outside the Sterling Area. August 27. The max imum permitted wheel base of imported auto- mobiles was increased to 116 inches. November 11. Special regulations were applied to settlements with Rhodesia; all payments to Rhodesia required specific exchange control approval. November 13. All imports f r om and all exports to Rhodesia required a specific license. 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Japanese Yen 360.00 = US$1. The o f f ic ial limits of buying and selling rates for U.S. dollars (spo t ), wh ich are set by the Ministry of Finance, are ¥ 362.70 (upper limit) and ¥ 357.30 (lower l im i t ), per US$1; the exchange authorities will buy or sell exchange at rates w i th in this range. Au thor ized banks may f ree ly carry out spot and fo rwa rd exchange transactions. Japan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom Ap r il 1,1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of In terna t ional Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, much of the au thor i ty for approving normal payments is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licensing is hand led by MITI. Inward capital investments of a long-term character require the approval of the Minister of Finance (in some cases at the same time that of the competent M in is ter) a f t er deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. Outward cap i tal investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all coun tr ies except the Repub l ic of Korea may be made in any currency, and receipts f rom those countries may be obtained in any of the designated receivable cu r renc ies ;2 receipts in other currencies require an ind iv idual license. Settlements in yen with those countries must be made th rough a Nonresident Free Yen Account. Payments to and f rom the Repub l ic of Korea are made through accounts established under the bilateral payments agreement with that country, but payments f rom Korea may also be accepted in any of the designated receivable currenc ies and payments for specified invis- ibles may be made w i thout us ing these accounts.3 aln view of a change that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 In add i t ion to yen, the designated receivable currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian f rancs, Canadian do l la rs, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 3 On December 18, 1965, l e t t e rs were exchanged w i th the Repub l ic of Korea to the effect that this agreement would be term ina ted on March 19, 1966; from that date, the agreement accoun ts can only be used for payments until September 15, 1966 in settlement of transactions approved before March 19, 1966. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may be opened by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds f rom exports of goods to Japan and f rom other authorized transactions incidental thereto, with yen proceeds f rom sales of designated receivable fore ign currencies, with transfers f rom other Free Yen Accounts, and with the countervalue in yen of authorized outward payments. There are no restrictions on payments f rom these accounts. The yen balances on these accounts may be converted into any fore ign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be credited with yen proceeds f rom transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts include pro- ceeds f rom the sales of debentures and benef ic iary certificates sold within six months f rom the date of validated acquisition, proceeds from sales of fixed assets which a nonresident acquired when he was a resident, and yen in excess of the amount of US$5,000 wh ich permanent emigrants are allowed to take out of Japan. Balances on these accounts are not convertible into fore ign currencies, although remittances are permitted each year up to one fifth of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of US$2,000, whichever is the higher. Withdrawals f rom these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in manag ing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresidents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are authorized f ree ly, thus enabling the ind iv idual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for fore ign currency. In addition, there are Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts in which certain proceeds f rom investments liquidated by fore igners may be placed. Balances on these accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. However, these accounts are of limited importance, because proceeds f rom foreigners' liquidated investments may be remitted through Nonresident Free Yen Accounts without hav ing been placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are subject to individual licensing by the authorized banks, but in practice 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN 93 per cent of nongovernment imports are liberalized. There are d i f fe rent licensing procedures for imports requiring payment in foreign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 161 items), the importer must first obtain f rom MITI an import quota, which is based on the quantitative pr inc ip le. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon application. Practically all import quota certificates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. (2) Under the Automatic Import Quota System, import quotas for specified categories of imports are granted automatically on a global basis and without restriction by MITI. (3) Under the Automatic Approval System, imports are, in e f fec t, f r ee of quantitative restriction, since licenses to import the commodities specified under this system are issued free ly and without limitation by the authorized banks, on application. All items subject to the Automatic Approval System may be imported f rom any country. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the standard methods of settlement for imports (generally within a period from the date of receipt of the shipping documents or the goods to four months a f ter customs c lea rance ). When the settlement proposal is not in accordance with one of the standard methods, prior approval of MITI must be obtained. In general, importers must make a deposit with an authorized bank when applying for an import license; currently the amount of this deposit is 1 per cent or 5 per cent of the value of the intended imports, depending on the goods to be imported ( f or imports f rom the Ryukyu Islands and the Bonin Islands, the deposit is %0 of 1 per cen t ). The deposit is returned a f ter 80 per cent of the goods has been imported or if the import transaction is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. The percentage of deposit can be increased or decreased. The 1 per cent deposit may be made in cash, securities, or other co l la tera l; the 5 per cent deposit must be made in cash. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require approval. However, most such pay- ments are approved f ree ly by authorized banks without any limitation or w i th in certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, inc lud ing payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital con tro l; except for tourism, they are automatically approved without undue delay, upon 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN verification of the authenticity of the current transaction. For tourism, an allowance equivalent to US$500 a person a trip is automatically made ava i lab le; for add i t ional amounts, special authorization is required. A tourist is permitted to pay in yen, before departure, the cost of transportation to and f rom his destination. Certain contracts require app rova l; but when a license for a contract has been granted, any payment resulting f rom the contract may be made free ly. Settle- ments wh ich are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, individual app rova l; under this method, payments for ser- vices, etc., may not be made more than three months before, or later than six months a f te r, receipt of the services, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely ¥ 20,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresident may take out f ree ly fore ign currencies up to the amount which he brought into Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports (except exports without exchange) must be registered with an authorized bank ("bank ce r t i f ica t ion" ), in order that the requirements conce rn ing prescription of currency and surrender of proceeds may be en fo rced. Licenses are not generally required, except for goods subject to the fo l low ing restrictions: restrictions on strategic goods to control their export to communist coun tr ies; restrictions on goods in short supply in the domestic market (e.g., m ine ra ls, fe r t i l ize rs, and staple f o o d s t u f f s ); and restrictions designed to fo res ta ll the imposition of import restric- tions by other countries (e.g., on such commodities as pottery and porce la in, sewing mach ines, and certain tex t i les). Exports under proc- essing and consignment sale contracts and exports for which settlement is not under the s tanda rd method also requ ire ind iv idual licenses. Under the standard method of settlement for exports, the va lue of the exported goods must, in general, be settled by d raw ing a bill of exchange payable within five months a f ter sight or within six months a f t er shipment in a designated receivable currency. Export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 10 days f rom the date of acquisition. However, t rad ing concerns resident in Japan may be permitted to hold fore ign cu r rency deposit accounts with authorized banks, in which they may keep their proceeds in U.S. dollars and/or sterling f rom exports and invisibles for a max imum of 20 days; during this period, they may use the exchange to make approved payments for the ir imports or for current invisibles, or sell it to the authorized banks for yen. 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the standard method of settlement may be accepted without a license. Under this method, receipts for the value of services, etc., must be obtained within one year before, or within six months after, rendering the service, etc. But contracts for services performed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method are subject to individual licensing. Receipts f rom invisibles must, as a rule, be surrendered. However, in order to facilitate payments for current invisibles, specified residents (shipping com- panies, etc.) are authorized to keep foreign currency deposit accounts with banks in the designated receivable foreign currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in freely any amount in foreign or Japanese currency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approval, mainly in accordance with the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acquisitions of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, and claims in the fo rm of loans by foreign investors are in principle subject to validation or license. However, acquisitions of stocks in the securities market are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan as follows: up to 15 per cent of the stock of a corporation not classified as a restricted industry, up to 10 per cent of the stock of a corporation classified as a restricted industry,4 and up to 5 per cent of the total capital of any corporation if acquired by a single holder. Acquisition of stock for participation in management is subject to individual validation, but it is approved in principle if there is no adverse effect on the Japanese economy. All these acquisitions, to be validated, must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent. Stocks in the form of stock dividends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired free ly, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months f rom the date of acquisition. The fo l low ing are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds f rom the sale of foreign exchange, if they are reinvested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds f rom the redemption after maturity of debentures, beneficiary certificates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on debentures or on claims in 4 Restricted industries include waterworks, railways and other electric and gas utilities, and banks. transportation, 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN the form of loans; distributed profits of beneficiary certificates; receipts f rom technological assistance contracts; and proceeds f rom sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a fore ign invest- ment, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated freely. Remittance of the proceeds f rom the sale of validated stock, as well as t rans fer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted. Proceeds f rom the sale of validated debentures and benef ic iary certificates may be deposited in Non- resident Free Yen Accounts, if the securities have been held for six months f rom the date of acquisition. Proceeds f rom the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen withdrawn f rom Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, provided that the securities have been held for at least three years from the date of acquisition (or f rom December 18, 1964 for securities acquired before that da te ). Repayments of loans extended to residents f rom Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, beg inn ing three years from the date of the loan. Foreign investment in Japan requires approval by the Minister of Finance (in some cases at the same time that of the competent Minister) a f ter deliberation by the Foreign Investment Council. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to in fo rm the Ministry of Finance and MITI through the Bank of Japan; and when the branches or plants wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance with such procedures are permitted to remit their profits and pr inc ipal abroad. Residents require approval to t rans fer capital abroad or to make investments abroad. Japanese emigrants may remit their assets to their new country of domicile subject only to verification by an authorized bank or the Bank of Japan. Foreign immigrants leaving Japan may remit to their new country of domicile up to US$5,000 or its equivalent in other fore ign currencies; additional amounts may be granted according to the merits of each case. The remaining liquid assets in Japan of such foreigners may be credited to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Securities acquired with approval under the Foreign Investment Law may be imported and exported free ly. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Changes during 1965 April 1. The rates for deposits which importers are required to make with an authorized bank were reduced; these rates were changed f rom 1, 5, and 35 per cent to 1 per cent and 5 per cent. Advance deposits no longer were required to be redeposited with the Bank of Japan. October 1. Imports of complete passenger cars and glass jewe lry were liberalized. This reduced the number of items still restricted, i.e., included on the "negative list," to 161 and raised the liberalization ratio f rom 92.9 per cent to 93.2 per cent. October 11. Charter contracts for periods longer than one year for the transportation of crude or heavy oil could be f ree ly concluded with nonresidents. November 15. Exports of copper were proh ib i ted. December 1. A "tariff drawback system" involving drawbacks on imported raw materials was in troduced for 61 export commodities produced mainly f rom imported raw materials. December 3. Imports of tobacco and sugar f rom Rhodesia were prohibited. December 18. Letters were exchanged with the Repub l ic of Korea to the effect that the b i la teral payments agreement w i th that country would be terminated on Ma rch 19,1966. NOTE.—The fo l low ing change took place in 1966: January 1. The tourist travel allowance equivalent to US$500 a person for one trip a year was increased to the equ iva lent of US$500 a person for each trip. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Jordan Dinar 1 = US$2.80. The o f f ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar are US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per JD 1. Authorized banks deal in U.S. do l lars and other fore ign currencies at rates usually based on the rates in the London market. Fees are levied on the issue of import licenses at the rate of 4 per cent when the goods are to be paid for in fo re ign exchange, and % of 1 per cent for goods imported without exchange. A fee of % (> of 1 per cent is levied on exchange permits approved by the Central Bank of Jordan for sales of exchange for imports and invisibles, except educational expenses and import payments and payments for invisibles by government depart- ments and certain other approved institutions. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank of Jo rdan, wh ich also issues exchange licenses. Import policy is fo rmu la ted by an Import Committee, wh ich is composed of the Controller of Imports, the Undersecretary for National Economy, the Director of Customs, the Head of the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of Jo rdan, the Director of Income Tax, and two persons representing the Chambers of Commerce. The decisions of the Import Committee are carried out by the Controller of the Import Department of the Ministry of Na t ional Economy. Prescription of Currency Jordan is a member of the Sterling Area, and most of its trade is financed in sterling. Payments to residents of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. In practice, such payments are made in sterling to a Resident Account in the United Kingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident Sterling Area Account with an author- ized bank in Jordan. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area (except Yugo s lav ia )1 must be made in sterling to an External Account in the United K ingdom, or in Jordan dinars to a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in currency appropriate to the country of residence of the recipient and/or the country of origin of the goods. 1 Under an agreement with the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade, the proceeds of exports of Jordan phosphates to Yugoslavia may be used only to make payments to Yugoslavia for imports of Yugoslav goods and approved invisibles. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Proceeds f rom exports and invisibles must be collected, and sur- rendered where required, as fo l lows: f rom residents of the Sterling Area, in resident sterling or in Jordan dinars f rom a nonresident Sterling Area Account with an authorized bank in Jo rdan; f rom residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Jordan dinars from a nonresident External Account with an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any specified currency.2 Nonresident Accounts Subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of Jordan, author- ized banks may open nonresident accounts designated either Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts, according to the permanent residence of the account holder. These accounts must be fed with appropriate funds. The approval of the Central Bank of Jordan is necessary for redesignation of residence, for transfers f rom resident to nonresident accounts, and for transfers f rom Sterling Area Accounts to External Accounts. Transfers between similarly designated non- resident accounts, transfers f rom External Accounts to Sterling Area Accounts, and transfers f rom nonresident to resident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain items3 f rom any source and all imports f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Most other imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting country, require import licenses if their c . i . f. value is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the Ministry of National Economy, except for certain items which are subject to scrutiny by either the Import Committee or the Undersecretary for National Economy, whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all materials needed for the establishment or expansion of an industrial firm. Im- porters of specified commodities must obtain 30 per cent or 50 per cent of their annual requirements f rom India. 2 The specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3These include cement (except wh i te cemen t ), carbonic acid, arak, non- alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, diesel-engined cars, lorries, and buses, diesel engines for conversion of petrol-driven vehicles, automobiles w i thout engines or tires, refrigerators, and other cooling appara tus and washing machines without the main parts. Imports of barley, lentils, olives, olive oil, and some other agricultural products are prohibited in good crop years. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Imports valued at JD 50 or more require an exchange license from the Central Bank. Exchange licenses are granted automatically when an import license has been obtained. A fee of 4 per cent is payable on licenses for imports paid for in nonresident account dinars or fore ign exchange. A fee of % of 1 per cent is payable on licenses issued without exchange (e.g., for samples, household effects, charitable donations in k i n d ). Licenses for imports originating in A rab League countries4 are valid for 4 months and those for imports o r ig ina t ing in other countries for 6 months. For the latter, the importer must open a letter of credit within 45 days of the date of issue of the license and must complete the process of importation w i th in the period of validity of the license. If the importer chooses to pay against documents, the requirement that he open a letter of credit is dispensed with, provided that the goods are shipped within 3 months of the date of issue of the license. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles except those of less than JD 25 are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the fo l low ing types of invisibles are generally permitted: income of nonresidents; savings of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries; remittances to refugee dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jordanian nationals ab road; expenses of Jordanian residents traveling abroad; expenditures for education; expenses of medical treatment; business expenses ab road; and insurance payments in accordance with special regulations. The policy in respect of these payments is, in general, liberal and nondiscriminatory. However, foreign exchange is not granted for travel to Iraq, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Saudi A rab ia, or the Syrian Arab Republic, though residents of Jordan and nationals of these countries traveling to them may take out up to JD 100 in Jordanian notes and coins. Otherwise, persons leaving Jordan may not take out more than JD 25 in Jordanian notes and coins or the equivalent in foreign currency; in addition, tourists and other nonresidents may take out foreign currency notes which they had previously brought into the country. Remittances for fam i ly maintenance may be made by postal order at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad. 4 The Arab League countries are Algeria, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Republic, and Yemen. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exports and Export Proceeds Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be collected and the foreign exchange, including sterling, surrendered. Proceeds from exports to A rab League countries of agricultural products and locally manu- fac tured goods are exempt f rom the surrender requirement, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phosphate company, the dyeing and tann ing company, the cement plant, and the petroleum refinery. Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange ( inc lud ing sterling) receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers entering Jordan may bring in a maximum of JD 100 in Jordanian currency notes and any amount in foreign currencies. Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be required by the Central Bank to surrender to an authorized bank any foreign currency ( inc lud ing sterling) at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported free ly, but exports of capital require approval. Current income resulting f rom nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encourage- ment of Foreign Capital Investment, effective May 1, 1955, profits f rom approved foreign investments may be remitted regularly, without any limitation, in the currency of the original investment. A f ter one year, repatriation of the capital is permitted in four annual installments in the same fore ign currency in which the original investment was made. The Government may approve more liberal provisions upon application. Changes during 1965 January 1. The Arab Common Market Agreement, signed by Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, the Syrian A rab Republic, and the United Arab Republic, entered into effect. January 1. The minimum amount of export proceeds that must be surrendered was raised f rom JD 20 to JD 50. January 1. Exports of phosphates to India could no longer be settled in Indian rupees. February 18. Commercial agencies could only be held by Jordanian nationals or by companies in which at least 60 per cent of the ownership was Jordanian. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN November 9. The Central Bank delegated to authorized banks, effective Janua ry 1, 1966, the approval of payments for educational expenses of Jordanians studying abroad. November 30. All trade with Rhodesia was prohibited. December 7. The Central Bank delegated to authorized banks, effective January 1, 1966, the issuance of exchange licenses for opening documentary import credits and for import payments against documents. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Kenya has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the East A f r ican shilling, which is off ic ia l ly maintained at par with the U.K. shilling, giving the relation- ship EA Sh 1 =: US$0.14. It circulates freely in the East A f r ican currency area, which comprises Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. In transactions equivalent to at least £ stg. 5,000 with the public, the East A f r i c an Currency Board stands ready to issue East A f r ican currency in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for East A f r ican currency; the off ic ial limits for the buying and selling rates for sterling d i f fer f rom parity by % per cent and l/2 per cent, respectively. The Board deals with its banking customers and, for large transactions, with the public at rates between the official limits. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the public has to deal through the authorized banks. The buying and selling rates for such transactions are at present within the off ic ial limits. The Board does not deal in foreign currencies l other than sterling. Banks in Kenya base their rates for other currencies on the current market rates in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing standard allocations of foreign exchange is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the Ministry of Commerce. Certain imports and exports are effected by State Marketing Boards. Payments f rom Kenya to Tanzania and Uganda are f ree of restrictions. Prescription of Currency Kenya is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United K ingdom; all settlements with Tanzan ia and Uganda, however, must be effected in East A f r i c an currency. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Kenya to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in East A f r i c an shillings 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the East African shilling. 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA to the credit of an External Account, or in any other foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in East A f r i c an shillings from an External Account, or in any other specified currency 2 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Tanzania and Uganda. They may be credited with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Kenya residents, with transfers f rom other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in Kenya of pounds sterling or the currency (excluding East A f r ican shillings) of any other country in the Sterling Area. They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area other than Tanzania and Uganda and other payments due to Kenya residents by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in Kenya, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for with- drawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Kenya. Accounts in East A f r ican shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currency and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases from authorized dealers of non-Sterling Area currencies. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase 2The specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the East African shilling. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA of bonds and shares officially quoted in Kenya; the redemption pro- ceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferable. Also subject to individual permission, such balances may be used for pay- ments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Kenya, and to Blocked Accounts in Tanzania and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Imports from Tanzania and Uganda are unrestricted, but certain goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzania or Uganda origin. Specific import licenses are required for certain goods f rom all other sources; no licenses are being issued for imports of some of these goods f rom Japan. Other goods may be imported without licenses. All imports f rom South A f r ica, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. When the importer has obtained a license from the Director of Trade and Supplies, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon appli- cation and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Au thor ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits as well as all other current payments are approved administratively, if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. The basic allow- ance for travel outside Tanzan ia and Uganda is EA Sh 5,000 a person a year. Travelers may take out up to EA Sh 500 in domestic currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out fo re ign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foods tu f fs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction. Exports of minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also sub ject to licensing. Other goods may be exported without licenses. With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East A f r ican common m a rk e t3 is unrestricted. All exports to South A f r ica, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. 8 The East Afr ican common market comprises Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Export proceeds in fo re ign currencies must be o f fe red to an author- ized bank in Kenya for conversion into East A f r i c an shillings. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in fore ign currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in free ly foreign currency notes; the import of domestic currency notes must not exceed EA Sh 500 in value for each traveler. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Tanzan ia and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Tanzania and Uganda require ind iv idual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Kenya permanen t ly may t ran s fer their assets up to the equivalent of EA Sh 100,000 if they take up residence in a country outside the Sterling Area, or up to the equivalent of EA Sh 140,000 if they take up residence in a Sterling Area country other than Tanzan ia or Uganda. All rema in ing f u n ds must be credited to a Blocked Accoun t; they may then be invested in approved Scheduled Te r r i to ry4 securities, and redemption proceeds become t rans fe rab le five years f rom the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya, but to ensure eventual repatriation it is necessary to- obtain a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the investment. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r i c an Licensing Ordinance. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase by nonresidents of Kenya securities on a recognized stock ex- change, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must norma l ly be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Tanzan ia and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant ove rd ra ft facilities to individuals and companies in order to enable them to make overseas transfers. * Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Changes during 1965 January 28. Imports of rayon yarn or thread f rom countries other than Tanzania and Uganda required an individual license; licenses would not normally be issued for denier counts of 30 or below. January 28. Imports of casein from all sources were freed from individual licensing. February 16. The credit arrangement attached to the bilateral trade agreement with the United A rab Republic of December 24, 1963 was terminated with retroactive e f fect f rom the date of its conclusion. April 1. Aden issued its own currency. The East A f r i c an shilling would remain legal tender until July 1, 1965, and Aden would remain a member of the East A f r i c an Currency Board un t il it was dissolved. April 15. Imports of most textile fab r ic s, made-up articles, and clothing f rom countries other than Tanzan ia and Uganda required an individual license. May 12. Imports of radios, record players, and low-speed agricul- tural trailers f rom countries other than Tanzania and Uganda required an individual license. June 7. Imports of certain types of mach inery and of secondhand clothing f rom countries other than Tanzan ia and Uganda required an individual license. June 10. It was announced that the common currency arrangements of the three East A f r i c an countries would be terminated by the middle of 1966. June 11. The exchange control treatment applicable to countries outside the Sterling Area was extended to all Sterling Area countries other than Tanzan ia and Uganda. The existing exchange control defi- nition of "Scheduled Territories," previously re fe r r ing to the Sterling Area, was narrowed to cover only Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. Con- sequently, the application of the restrictions on capital transfers and of the surrender requirements was extended to the Sterling Area except Tanzania and Uganda. The Exchange Control Act was made applicable also to residents of Kenya when outside Kenya. The currencies of all countries other than the Scheduled Territories were designated as foreign currencies. Japanese yen, Spanish pesetas, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the East A f r i c an shilling were designated as specified currencies. It was o f f ic ia l ly stated that all reasonable requests for exchange for payments to Sterling Area countries for such items as fam i ly rem i t tances, educa t ional expenses, and insurance would be approved, and that no new restrictions were being imposed on trade with the Sterling Area. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA June 11. The amount of domestic currency notes that travelers could free ly take out or bring in was reduced to EA Sh 500. June 18. Restrictions were placed on the sale of postal orders for t ran s fe rs to countries other than Tanzan ia and Uganda. June 25. Exports of m i l le t, dried peas, rice, paddy, and certain other foods tu f fs to any destination required an ind iv idual license. July 1. The East A f r i c an sh i l l ing ceased to be legal tender in Aden. August 14- Imports of all types of soap f rom countries other than Tanzania and Uganda required an ind iv idual license. September 10. Imports of f u r t h er textiles f rom Japan required an individual license. September 25. Ind iv idual licensing was imposed on the importation of all Japanese goods; licenses would not norma l ly be issued except for certain raw materials and equipment needed for the development of local industry. November 4- The East A f r i c an Currency Board ceased redeeming currency notes of the design issued in East A f r i ca f rom October 12, 1964 onward, except in East A f r i c a. November 17. Imports of biscuits and various other cereal products from countries other than Tanzan ia and Uganda required an individual license. November 27. Special regulations were issued for settlements with Rhodesia. December 2. All trade with Rhodesia was prohibited. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been established with the Fund. On May 3, 1964 a new fluctuating rate based on an exchange certificate system was introduced. Since March 22, 1965 there has been a fluctuating exchange rate determined in an exchange certificate market, where the rate is not permitted to appreciate beyond W 255 per US$1. On December 31,1965 the exchange rate was W 272.60 per US$1. Exchange certificates are issued by the Bank of Korea against all foreign exchange receipts except those f rom sales of won to the UN forces stationed in Korea. Exchange certificates are required for all foreign exchange expenditures except for payments of less than the equivalent of US$50; the certificates required for the Government's exchange payments are issued against won by the Bank of Korea. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It carries out policy with respect to prescription of currency and method of settlement, fore ign exchange operations, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Government's agent, executes the above func t ions in pa r t; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control receipts and payments related to invisibles. The Bank of Korea and five commercial banks, as well as their branch offices, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. Some imports and exports are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry or the ministries concerned. Prescription of Currency Under a bilateral payments agreement with Japan,1 settlements with that country must be made through a bilateral clearing account, except for settlements on account of certain trade transactions requ ir- ing cash payment in U.S. dollars. There is also a bilateral payments agreement with Viet-Nam, but no clearing account has yet been established and all settlements are made in convertible exchange. Cer- tain settlements with Indonesia are made through escrow accounts. 1 Agreement has been reached with Japan that this arrangement will be terminated with effect f rom March 19, 1966. 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA The proceeds of exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss f rancs, or U.S. dollars. The methods of payment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may ma in ta in foreign currency deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea and the authorized banks. Remittances f rom such accounts and withdrawals in the fo rm of currency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made f ree ly. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances f rom balances that have accrued f rom remuneration for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or f rom exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted f rom ab road ). The deposits may be disposed of by sale to the Bank of Korea or an authorized bank at the prevailing exchange certificate rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Foreign residents and nonresidents are permitted to hold foreign currency time deposit accounts with the Bank of Korea. Certain residents of Korean nationality, such as the airline and some insurance companies, may maintain current deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the Bank of Korea and with authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports are permitted in accordance with semiannual import programs. All imports require licenses; for some imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods originating from communist countries and for certain imports from all other countries. Imports are divided into two categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (so-called KFX imports) and those paid for with U.S. aid funds. KFX imports are classified as automatic approval, semirestricted, restricted, unspecified, or pro- hibited items. Automatic approval items (1,495) consist mainly of essential consumer goods and certain raw materials and capital goods; these items are licensed automatically and account for about 74 per cent of KFX imports. Semirestricted items (124) are not subject to indi- vidual quotas but require the approval of competent ministries for other than balance of payments reasons, such as reasons of public health. Restricted items (14) are subject to individual quotas. Pro- hibited imports cover 620 commodities. U.S. aid imports are classified 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA as either automatic approval items or restricted items; automatic approval items (27) account for 40 per cent of U.S. aid imports other than imports under U.S. Public Law 480. In principle, no commodities imported with U.S. aid funds are included among the KFX imports, but in exceptional cases payment for imports usually financed with U.S. aid funds may be made with KFX exchange. Certain imports are reserved only for end-users, i.e., manu fac tu re rs and exporters who need specified raw materials. Import licenses are granted only to registered t rade rs; to maintain the status of a registered trader, a m in imum value of US$50,000 of exports is required each year. For imports financed with KFX exchange, except imports for exports, exchange certificates corresponding to the fu ll invoice amount must be deposited with an authorized bank when the letter of credit is opened. For imports used for exports, the importer must either comply with the same requirements or produce a letter of guarantee denominated in a foreign currency and issued by an exchange bank; the guarantee must provide for settlement within 135 days af ter release of the bill of lading. For imports financed with U.S. aid, except imports of agricultural commodities under U.S. Public Law 480, exchange certificates corresponding to the f u ll amount of the invoice need not be deposited until the bill of lad ing is released by the Bank of Korea. Certain advance import deposits, however, are required for all imports financed with U.S. aid. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require ind iv idual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected with fore ign trade transactions are licensed automatically. There are certain standard allocations for business travel; in addition, exporters are granted foreign exchange up to US$1,000 for expenses. Exporters whose fore ign exchange earnings exceed the equivalent of US$100,000 a year may retain part of such earnings for business travel or other trade promotion purposes; the maximum amount that may be retained is US$10,000 a year, applicable to those exporting the equivalent of over US$1,000,000 a year. Foreign 'and Korean currency notes may not be exported without special per- mission. Departing foreigners may reconvert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to US$100, and they may take out any foreign exchange that they had registered on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to communist countries, and exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton; raw h ides; precious metals; certain ores and minerals; bituminous coa l; p u l p; and lumbe r) to all other countries, are prohibited. Certain exports require ind iv idual licenses. All other exports may be made free ly under an automatic approval procedure. 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to the Bank of Korea at its buying rate or be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived f rom invisibles must either be sold to the Bank of Korea at its buying rate or be exchanged for equivalent exchange certificates. The import of Korean currency notes requires special authorization. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange, which must be declared upon entry. Capital All capital remittances require approval. Foreign capital invest- ment, loans f rom abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guarantee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Investment Encouragement Law, the Law Guaranteeing Repayment for Loans, and the Law Governing Importation of Capital Goods on Long-Term Repayment Basis, respectively. Changes during 1965 February 6. Restrictions on payments for invisibles were relaxed. Licenses for payments for invisibles connected with fore ign trade were granted automatically. Exporters could f ree ly use a part of their foreign exchange earnings for business travel and other trade promotion purposes. March 22. An exchange certificate market was created in which the exchange rate could fluctuate. Exchange certificates were issued against all foreign exchange receipts except those f rom sales of won to the UN forces. Exchange certificates were required for all payments of the equivalent of US$50 or more, except payments for imports under U.S. Public Law 480. The exchange rate would not be permitted to appreciate beyond W 255 per US$1, but no predetermined limit was set on the extent to which it might depreciate. March 22. The export subsidies rang ing f rom W 3 to W 25 per US$1 were eliminated. The barter arrangement, under which exporters of specified commodities were entitled to receive preferences in the granting of import licenses, was abolished. Export-import linking, under which merchants' entitlements to import licenses were linked to their export earnings, also was terminated. March 22. Restrictions on imports were relaxed and import pro- cedures were s imp l i f ied; the number of items authorized for import was increased f rom 694 to 1,431. December 9. A barter agreement with Indonesia entered into e f fec t; payments would be channeled through escrow accounts. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exchange Rate System The par value is Kuwa i ti Dinar 1 = US$2.80. The dinar is off ic ia l ly defined in terms of gold and is at par with the pound sterling. The commercial banks' rates for telegraphic t rans fe rs on London are KD 0.9975 buying, and KD 1.0025 selling, per £ stg. 1. Rates for other currencies in the off ic ial market are based on London market rates. There is a f ree market in wh ich exchange other than Rhodesian pounds may be dealt in without restrictions as to its origin or use, and in which rates, in practice, d i f fer f rom off ic ial market rates by less than 1 per cent. On December 31, 1965, the average selling rate for the U.S. do l lar in the off ic ial market was KD 0.35900 per US$1, and in the f ree market it was within a range of KD 0.35925 to KD 0.35960 per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwa it no t if ied the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation in Kuwait. Control is exercised only over the provision of exchange in the official market for payments to territories outside the Sterling Area and over the manner of payment to other Sterling Area territories. It is admin- istered by the Kuwa it Currency Board. Authority to provide ex- change for imports and related payments and, within limits, for travel is delegated to the banks operating in Kuwa i t. Individual Letters of Recommendation, required for other payments through the o f f ic ial market in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area, are issued by the Currency Board. General and ind iv idual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade. The limited control over exports is administered by the Customs and Ports Adm in is tra t ion of the M in is try of Finance and Oil. Prescription of Currency Kuwait is a member of the Sterling Area, and the banks operating in Kuwait observe prescription of currency requirements broadly similar to those of other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments through the o f f ic ial market to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling cur- 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT rency appropriate to the area to wh ich the payment is made. Payments from other countries in the Sterling Area may be received in any Sterling Area currency. Apart f rom payments to the Government, payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area are not, in practice, received through the o f f ic ial marke t. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than food s tu f f s; licenses are issued f ree ly. Registered importers hand l ing a variety of commodities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses. All imports f rom Israel, inc lud ing imports of Israeli m a n u f a c t u re and those which contain Israeli ma ter ia ls or are m anu f a c tu r ed by companies f inanced by Israeli capital, and all imports f rom Rhodes ia and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Imports of alcoholic beverages are prohibited f rom all sources. The importer must be either a Kuwaiti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwaitis or a shareho ld ing or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own not less than 51 per cent of the stock. Firms in wh ich partners are Kuwa i t is and non-Kuwa i t is may obtain nonrenew- able general import licenses va l id un t il November 26, 1966. Sterling Area currencies are provided f ree ly for payments to residents of the Sterling Area for imports or for other purposes. Imports f rom any source may be paid for with exchange acqu i red in the f r ee market. The banks operating in Kuwa it are authorized to provide External Account sterling or a non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds for payments for imports f rom outside the Sterling Area, provided that they receive a f u ll set of documents covering the import and, when payment is to be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account, that they provide conf irma t ion that they are satis- fied that the goods will be landed in Kuwait. When payment is made in a non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds, the banks operate on the basis of blanket or nonspec if ic Letters of Recommenda- tion wh ich authorize them to obtain non-sterling currencies other than Rhodesian pounds in London up to certain limits and to transfer them to accounts in the country of the currency involved. When the limits are reached, the banks obtain fu r ther authorizations under 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT new Letters of Recommendation on accounting for the use of the previous allocations. For payments for goods purchased in countries outside the Sterling Area for resale without shipment to Kuwait, exchange is provided through the off ic ial market only if a bank guarantees that the proceeds of the resale will be returned to Kuwa i t; however, the proceeds of re-exportation of imports financed through the o f f ic ial market need not be surrendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly to residents of other Sterling Area countries, or to residents of any country other than Rhodesia in exchange acquired in the f ree market. Payments through the off ic ial market to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account or in a non-sterling currency other than Rhodesian pounds for expenses related to imports (such as fre ight and in su r an c e ), as part of the arrangements on payments for imports and thus sub ject to the same conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ). The banks operating in Kuwait have been granted general authority to sell to Kuwaiti nationals non-sterling currencies other than Rhodesian pounds up to the equivalent of KD 250 a person for each trip for travel outside the Sterling Area, without specific reference to the Currency Board. For business travel, the amount may be increased up to KD 20 a day for a maximum period of three mon ths; this allowance is applicable to all members of the f am i ly who accompany a business traveler. Travelers may take with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Rhodesian currency. For all other payments for invisibles to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia which are made through the o f f ic ial market, a separate Letter of Recommenda t ion must be obtained f rom the Currency Board for each payment. Such authorization will be granted to provide exchange for medical or educational expenses abroad, if approval is obtained f rom the competent ministry. Foreign nationals working in Kuwait may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their basic wages or salaries and, on depar ture, may t rans fer their savings. The transfer of income on fore ign capital invested in Kuwait will be authorized up to the amount of net profits, including past earnings, on presentation of an audited statement. Similarly, a Letter of Recom- mendation will be issued to cover payments for business services, if the application is accompanied by an audited certificate. The Currency Board "will also issue to Kuwaiti nationals Letters of Recommendation providing an annual allowance in any currency 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT except Rhodesian pounds of the equivalent of up to KD 3,000 for each family. This may be used for additional travel funds, for personal remittances, or for any other purpose inc lud ing the transfer of capital. This exchange is au toma t ica l ly ava i lab le; larger amounts require special authorization by the Currency Board. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and pou l try are proh ib i ted, and those of certain other items, such as sugar and f a t s, may be either licensed or prohibited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwait. Exports of arms, ammuni- tion, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are prohibited. There are no requirements attached to receipts f rom exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Rhodesian pound s; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of f ree ly, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or disposal of receipts in any currency other than Rhodes ian pounds. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwa i ti or other banknotes except Rhodesian currency. Capital There are no exchange control ob l iga t ions on the t ran s fer to Kuwait of resident or nonresident cap i tal in any currency. Government agree- ment is necessary for the par t ic ipa t ion of nonresident capital in corpora- tions in Kuwa i t, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuw a i t; except for petroleum companies, 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwa i ti companies must be held by Kuwa i ti nationals. No control is imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents to other countries in the Sterling A rea, or to any country other than Rhodes ia if the payment is made through the f r ee market. A Letter of Recommendation f rom the Currency Board is required if a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is to be t rans fe r red through the o f f ic ial market. When a firm in wh ich nonresident capital is involved is liquidated, permission is given automatically for the repatriation through the o f f ic ial market of the nonresident capital involved, in a currency other than Rhodesian pounds appropriate to the residence of the investor. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Under a resolution of September 1963 of the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Kuwaiti nationals may be granted permission to transfer capital, within limits approved by the Exchange Control, to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia for investment purposes, provided that the application is supported by sufficient information regarding the purpose of the investment and the country to which the remittance is made. Local banks are granted permission without restriction to invest their deposits outside the Sterling Area except in Rhodesia. Transfers of capital for other purposes by residents through the official market to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are generally not permitted beyond an amount equivalent to KD 3,000 a fam i ly per annum (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above ). Add i t ional amounts are subject to the approval of the Currency Board, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Changes during 1965 March 15. An Industrial Law was published which subjected the establishment and operation of industries to government license. Except for petroleum companies, any new Kuwaiti companies formed for the setting-up of a new local industry must be at least 51 per cent Kuwaiti-owned. May 28. All government imports must be effected through registered local importers or Kuwaiti agents. August 23. With minor exceptions, all imports by oil companies or their staff required an import license. December 5. The Council of Ministers declared a comprehensive boycott covering all trade and all financial transactions with Rhodesia. Dealings in Rhodesian pounds and Rhodesian securities also were prohibited. 342 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Laotian Kip has been established with the Fund. The official rate is K 240 = US$1. This rate applies to imports of aid goods, government requirements, 60 per cent of the proceeds f rom exports of tin ore, 10 per cent of other export proceeds, and specified invisibles. All other transactions take place in an off ic ial f ree market.1 The National Bank of Laos conducts exchange trans- actions with authorized banks only in U.S. dollars, French f ranc s, and pounds sterling, at rates equivalent to K 240.00 buying, and K 242.40 selling, per US$1. Banks are authorized to charge commissions not exceeding 1 per cent on purchases and sales of these currencies. Residents and nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks. These accounts may be credited with unlimited amounts in foreign exchange and may be debited for any payments by the account holder. Transfers between these accounts are free. Balances on these accounts may be sold against kips either at the f ree market rate or, for specified purposes, at the off ic ial rate. Administration of Control The Exchange Off ice of the Ministry of Finance jo in t ly with the Department of Customs authorizes imports under the foreign assist- ance import programs,, authorizes payments for invisibles, and records exports. The Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy issues export licenses. The four commercial banks are author- ized to deal, on account of customers only, in fore ign exchange at the o f f ic ial and free market rates. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the Na t ional Bank provides exchange for authorized payments and accepts export proceeds only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R., prov id ing for payments to be made through a clearing account maintained in French f rancs as the unit of account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to ma in ta in accounts in foreign curren- cies with authorized banks (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). aT he official free market rate has tended to settle around K 500 per US$1. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Imports and Import Payments All importers must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, roof tiles, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, and soft drinks are prohibited, although import licenses are granted when shortages arise. Imports are divided into two categories: (1) those made in accordance with the import programs financed by assistance from Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States; (2) all other imports, for which the importer has to supply his own foreign exchange and wh ich are not subject to licensing. There is a list of commodities which may be imported under the import program financed by the United States; certain of these com- modities may not be imported f rom specified countries.2 However, petroleum products, for wh ich specific U.S. aid is made available, may be imported f rom some of the countries on the list of excluded coun- tries. Under the various import programs financed with foreign aid, importers apply to the Exchange Office for licenses; a f ter clearance by the customs authorities in respect of va lua t ion, the exchange licenses automatically become import licenses. Under the U.S. import program, suppliers are paid direct f rom the Special Letter of Credit opened by the U.S. Government at the Chase Manhattan Bank o f^ New York in favor of the Royal Lao Government, a f ter the goods involved have been certified as con fo rm ing to the list of commodities qua l if ied for foreign financing. Under the U.K. import program, foreign exchange is made available by the United Kingdom direct to the commercial banks upon the opening of letters of credit. Under the Australian import program, the Laotian Government requests the Australian Government to purchase and deliver to Laos specified goods. The Australian Government makes payment to the suppliers and covers all costs up to the Laotian port of entry, when the goods become .the property of the Laotian Government. The National Bank does not make foreign exchange available to pay for imports outside the import programs, with the exception of imports to meet government requirements. However, importers are free to obtain exchange through the off ic ial free market for any amount of imports. Under the import programs financed with fore ign aid, all importers are required to make a covering payment of 100 per cent for letters of credit opened. 2 The countries from which goods may not be imported under the U.S. import program are Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Afr ica, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom, and countries in the Sino-Soviet bloc. 344 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS For customs valuation purposes, the exchange rate for most imports riot financed with fore ign aid is K 500 per US$1; for all other goods it is K 240 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain specified invisibles that are granted foreign exchange at the off ic ial rate of K 240 per US$1 require licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office. Freight and insurance in connection with imports under the foreign aid import programs are regarded as a part of the import payment. The following are the main categories of payments for invisibles for which the National Bank sells foreign exchange: official expenditures by the Government; study abroad (initial installation, monthly allowances up to specified limits, trans- port, and other miscellaneous expenses); fam i ly maintenance; and specified insurance payments. All other payments for invisibles are unrestricted, but must be conducted through the official f ree market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited. All other exports are subject to authorization, but licenses are automatically issued. Sixty per cent of proceeds f rom exports of tin ore and 10 per cent of all other export proceeds must be surrendered in U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the official rate to the National Bank; the remainder may be kept abroad or with domestic banks or sold in the free market. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U.S. dollars, French f rancs, or pounds sterling, he must exchange the part that is subject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements are applied to the following invisibles: official expenses, other than salaries of foreign employees, by embassies, missions, representatives, and various foreign institu- tions; settlements from insurance companies; and receipts of public service companies. Capital Incoming capital and outgoing capital are not subject to any exchange control requirements. Transactions are conducted through the official free market. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Changes during 1966 September 6. Many commodities were removed f rom the list of imports under the U.S. aid program; the items deleted included wheat flour, milk, sugar, live animals, tobacco, insecticides, many fertilizers, soap, all chemical and pha rmaceu t ical products, pu lp, paper and news- print, most textiles, rubber and rubber products, many iron and steel products, most nonferrous metals and products the reo f, motor vehicles, tractors, and electrical equipment. These items could hencefor th be imported freely with exchange obtained in the off ic ial free market. September 9. The proportion of the proceeds f rom exports other than tin ore that was required to be surrendered at the off ic ial rate was reduced f rom 60 per cent to 10 per cent. September 28. Imports of matches and rubber sandals were prohibited. 346 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Lebanese Pound was estab- lished by Lebanon with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All transactions take place at f ree market rates, wh ich for the U.S. do l lar as at December 31, 1965 were LL 3.070 buying, and LL 3.074 selling, per US$1. Pending the establishment of a new par value with the Fund, a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 is applied for the valuation of o f f ic ial assets and government transactions in foreign exchange and for customs valuation purposes. There are no restrictions on fore ign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Lebanon. In some cases, transactions with certain countries with wh ich Lebanon has paymen ts agreements spec ify ing the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods f rom any source and all imports f rom Israel are proh ib i ted. Imports va lued at over LL 500 of certain commodities (wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, menthol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial mach ine ry, olive oil, molasses, brushes, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, liquid gas, etc.) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licensing. Licenses are granted for six months and may be renewed for an add i t ional six months (or longer, for imports of indus tr ial m a ch in e ry ). All other commodities may be imported free ly without license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained f ree ly through the f ree market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the va lue of all goods imported by sea or air. Payments for Invisibles No restrictions are p laced on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained f ree ly through the f ree market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of iron, cast iron, copper, lead, and tin) to any country, re-exports of certain goods to any destination, 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. There are also inoperative payments agreements with Guinea and Iraq. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports valued at over LL 200 of a few items—such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, petroleum, petroleum products, industrial and agricultural machines and equipment, and certain metals —to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Changes during 1965 January 1. A "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 was established. It would be used for recording government transactions in foreign exchange, for valuation of off ic ial assets, and for customs valuation. Customs ta r i f fs were adjusted so as to prevenjb any change in tax yields in Lebanese pounds. March 9. A trade and technical cooperation agreement with the European Economic Community was initialed. May 8. Several items, such as wall tiles, aluminum bars, and aluminum tubes and pipes, required an import license. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Liberian Dollar 1 = US$1. U.S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. There is an inoperative payments agreement with Guinea. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammunition, explosives, used clothing, and pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature, narcotics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from South Africa are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agricultural products -other than rubber, and certain other items. Licenses are issued f r e e ly; they serve mainly to enforce taxation or, for agricultural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the monopoly of the Liberian Produce Market- ing Corporation. The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. There are, however, restrictions on the circulation of U.S. banknotes in denominations over $20. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1965 No significant changes took place during 1965. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Exchange Rate System The par value is Libyan Pound 1 — US$2.80. The Bank of Libya deals with commercial banks in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars only, at rates fixed daily. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1965 were US$2.8027 buying and selling, per £L 1; for the pound sterling the buying and selling rates were at par. The commercial banks are permitted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through their foreign correspondents or branches; the banks' rates are based on quotations in London and New York. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Libya, which has delegated some of its powers to the authorized banks. Policy relating to import and export licensing is determined by a consultative Import and Export Council, under the chairmanship of the Minister of National Economy. Import and export licenses are issued by the Comptroller of Trade and Supplies of the Ministry of National Econ- omy; imports of sugar, tobacco, cigars, and cigarettes also require the approval of the Monopoly Administration, and those of livestock and vegetable oils that of the Ministry of Agriculture. Prescription of Currency The Kingdom of Libya is a member of the Sterling Area. Settlements with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency or by crediting Libyan pounds or sterling to a Scheduled Territories Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Libyan pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any foreign currency. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Libya has a trade and payments agreement with the United Arab Republic, under which settlements are made through a centralized bilateral clearing account maintained in sterling. Nonresident Accounts Subject to the approval of the Bank of Libya, nonresidents may open accounts with any authorized bank in Libya, in either Libyan or foreign currency. The accounts in Libyan pounds of residents of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Territories Accounts, and those of residents of other countries, External Accounts (the only exceptions 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA being blocked accounts or accounts to which special procedures app ly). Transfers may be made f ree ly between Scheduled Territories Accounts, between External Accounts, and from External Accounts to Scheduled Territories Accounts. Funds held on Scheduled Territories Accounts may be converted into sterling or any other Sterling Area currency. Funds held on External Accounts may be converted into any foreign currency, including sterling. With the approval of the exchange control authority, funds on blocked accounts may be used for expenditures in Libya up to £L 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to Libya by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for payments in Libya of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of perma- nent residence, up to £L 1,000 in a calendar yea r; and for remittances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been on a blocked Libyan pound account for five years, they qua l i fy for remittance in fu ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons who have le ft Libya permanen t ly are being released in installments; balances credited prior to Janua ry 1, 1964 have already been released. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. There are two lists of imports subject to individual licensing. One list comprises 42 items or groups of items which require no authorization other than an import license; these goods include various foods tuffs, certain local manu fac tu res, and several revenue-producing commodities. Goods on the other list, which contains 8 groups of items, require the approval of the competent ministry prior to the granting of an import license; the goods include drugs and medicines, live animals, and edible vegetable oils. Imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette paper are subject to government monopoly. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of fine gold. Imports of a few goods from all countries and all imports f rom Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exchange permits required for authorized imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require licenses from the Bank of Libya. These are granted free ly for expenses incidental to trade transactions. Applications for remittances in respect of other invisibles are con- sidered on their merits and are granted liberally. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of £L 20; residents may, in addition, take out without license foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of £L 300 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one half of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circumstances. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of £L 250 a trip or, subject to a maximum of £L 2,500 in any period of 6 months, the equivalent of £L 20 a day. Temporary visitors may take out any travelers checks, letters of credit, or foreign currency notes which they declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for all commodities. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Exports of vegetable oils and mares are pro- hibited. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign currency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Bank of Libya. Travelers entering Libya may bring with them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of £L 20, and other currency notes, travelers checks, letters of credit, bonds, coupons, securities, and other negotiable instruments in unlimited amounts. Libyan currency notes may be repatriated through banking channels, provided that details are given to establish that the notes within the authorized amount were obtained from bona fide travelers f rom Libya. Capital Many aspects of the operations of oil companies operating in Libya are governed by Petroleum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. Under the provisions of the Foreign Capital Investment Law of January 30, 1958, foreign capital invested in projects deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, as well as profits thereon, and salaries of fore ign staff employed on such projects may be transferred freely to the country of origin. Real estate in Libya may be sold only to Libyans. The net sales proceeds a f ter tax of real estate belonging to foreign nationals are f ree ly transferab le. Nonresident capital that is not permitted to be transferred abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Residents require the prior approval of the Bank of Libya to borrow funds abroad or 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA to import on consignment or on deferred payment terms. Residents of Libyan nationality are not as a ru le permitted to purchase real estate situated outside Libya or fore ign securities. Residents of Libya taking up permanent residence abroad are permitted to t rans fer up to £L 5,000 for a f am i l y; applications for the release of the balance of their assets over a number of years are approved liberally. Changes during 1965 January 1. A ma jor re fo rm of the customs tar iff took place. Import duties on about 100 ta r i ff items were removed and those on about 200 items were reduced by 30-50 per cent. Duties on some 20 items were increased by up to 300 per cent. The 5 per cent customs surcharge was abolished. February 8. The basic travel allowance was increased f rom £L 140 in any period of 12 months to £L 300 a calendar year. For business travel, residents could take out the equivalent of £L 250 a trip or, subject to a maximum of £L 2,500 in any period of 6 months, the equivalent of £L 20 a day. April 7. The establishment or operation of any type of industrial firm required a license f rom the Ministry of Industry. July 20. Foreign companies (other than transportation and catering companies) servicing oil companies on a contract basis were exempted f rom the requirement that 51 per cent of their share capital be Libyan owned. November 22. Certain provisions of Petroleum Law No. 25 were amended by decree. The decree was ratified by Parliament on December 9. November 30. Exports of oil to Rhodesia were prohibited. November 30. Economic and financial relations with Rhodesia were suspended. December 29. Imports of clay for oil dr i l l ing and imports of pottery required an individual license. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial unit of currency is the Malagasy f ranc, which is equivalent to 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship FMG 246.853 = US$1. The Malagasy Institute of Issue stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell Malagasy f rancs against French f rancs at the fixed rate of FMG 1 = 0.02 French f ranc. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on fixed buying and selling rates for the French f ranc and the Paris market rates for the other currency concerned, plus or minus a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office under the direction of the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. Exchange transac- tions are hand led by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office of the Ministry of Finance and Commerce; licenses for imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area must be ap- proved by the Exchange Office. The Exchange Office charges a fee on all transactions authorized in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area. This fee ranges from FMG 500 for transactions up to FMG 150,000 to FMG 3,500 for those exceeding FMG 1 million. Prescription of Currency The Malagasy Republic is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries may be made through accounts that Malagasy banks maintain with their correspondents in countries outside the French Franc Area; frequently, however, they are made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports f rom coun- tries outside the French Franc Area are subject to import licensing. For protective reasons, a few imports (edible oils and batteries) are subject to licensing when originating in any country, including coun- tries in the French Franc Area, and the import of certain other items (including beer and used clothing) f rom all sources is prohibited, suspended, or subject to special conditions. Licenses are also required for imports from countries in the French Franc Area if such goods originate from outside the Area and have not undergone transforma- tion in a French Franc Area country in accordance with certain rules, and for all imports from French Somaliland. All other goods from the Area may be imported freely. For restricted imports an annual import program is established. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to imple- ment it are determined by a joint French-Malagasy Committee. The import program is based on the establishment of quotas that fix the limits up to which specified commodities may be imported. The pro- gram contains global quotas applicable to all EEC countries other than France, and global quotas applicable to all countries outside the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing the EEC countries other than France). The quotas for EEC countries are for individual commodities, while those for all other countries are fixed for groups of commodities as defined in the customs t a r i f f. Certain quotas (e.g., for radios, sewing machines, fabrics, clothing, tools, and cutlery) may be used only up to fixed percentages for imports from the Far East; this limitation, how- ever, does not apply to Japan or the Republic of China. Within the program, there are ceilings on imports of dairy products and auto- mobiles from all countries outside the French Franc Area. Many of the items subject to a global quota for EEC countries are de facto liberal- ized when imported f rom those countries. Imports from countries out- side the French Franc Area that do not require financial settlement require licenses not involving foreign exchange. Issue of an import license serves as authorization to the commercial bank to make payment. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below), licenses are granted for imports of any goods that are not restricted for protective reasons, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from an EFAC account held by the person who was granted the import license. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made free ly to countries in the French Franc Area. All payments for invisibles to other countries are, in general, subject to approval by the Exchange Office. Residents trave l ing abroad may obtain a fore ign exchange allocation up to the equivalent of FMG 125,000 per annum; in addition, they may take out for each trip up to the equivalent of FMG 37,500 in French f ranc banknotes or up to FMG 75,000 in Malagasy f rancs. Residents of fo re ign 'na t iona l i ty may t rans fer to countries outside the French Franc Area a part of their salaries earned in the Malagasy Republic; such transfers are limited to 50 per cent for persons hav ing their families abroad and to 20 per cent for single persons and persons having their families in the Malagasy Republic. Payments for other invisibles are approved liberally upon production of documentary evidence. Travelers may take out FMG 75,000 in Malagasy banknotes or the equivalent of FMG 37,500 in French f r anc banknotes. Nonresidents may, in addition, export any banknotes of countries outside the French Franc Area that they have previously imported and declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products (see below) require an export license. Products under quota are coffee, van i l la, cloves, pepper, and superior-grade r ice; these commodities require the visa of the appropriate stabilization f u nd before an export license is granted. Controlled products include lentils, rice, rice bran, peanut oil cake, sisal, and certain mining products; the re-export of wheat, flour, dairy products, lime and cement, automobiles, tractors, and pub l ic works equipment also is controlled. These goods require the visa of the competent ministry before an export license is granted. Exports of other commodities to the French Franc Area do not require an export license unless they have previously been imported from outside that Area. With minor exceptions, export licenses or exchange surrender com- mitments are required for all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area. Proceeds of exports to countries outside the French Franc Area must be repatriated within three months f rom the date of their collection. Exporters paid in currencies of countries outside the Area may, however, retain 15 per cent of their proceeds in special, non- transferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder to pay for representation and advertising expenses, for business trips abroad, for any imports not 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC restricted for protective reasons, and for any type of payment per- mitted by a general or specific license. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect, and surrender within one month f rom the date of receipt of fore ign exchange, amounts due from non- residents in respect of services and all income exceeding FMG 50,000 f rom foreign securities. Travelers may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes and coins (except gold co ins). Capital Capital movements between the Malagasy Republic and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of control; those between the Malagasy Republic and all other countries are subject to authoriza- tion. The t rans fer of capital by residents to countries outside the French Franc Area is subject to ind iv idual approval. Residents require individual authorization to borrow outside the French Franc Area when the amount exceeds the equivalent of FMG 50 million, when the maturity exceeds two years, or when the interest rate exceeds by more than 1% points the discount rate of the Malagasy Institute of Issue. Foreign investments of any kind f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are sub ject to the prior authorization of the Exchange O f f ice; this au thor iza t ion implies a t rans fer guarantee — valid for all countries outside the French Franc Area —with respect to earnings as well as l iqu ida t ion proceeds. In accordance with the Investment Code of September 1962, as amended by Law No. 65-022 of December 16, 1965, fore ign or domestic enterprises of special interest for the economy may be granted prefer- ential treatment in accordance with an "order of approval" (arrete d'agrement). Such enterprises may benefit f rom specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, supplementary foreign exchange allocations above those allotted in the annual import program, quotas for competing imports, etc. Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits provided for by the Investment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a found ing agreement (conven- tion d'etablissement); such an agreement requires parliamentary approval. Changes during 1965 January 18. EFAC Accounts could be used freely for any type of payment to countries outside the French Franc Area, provided that the payment was permitted by a general or specific license. The obligation 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC to surrender a portion of any unused balance in an EFAC Account was terminated. March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Rumania, which was also applicable to the Malagasy Republic, was terminated. March 15. The import program for the 12-month period beginning on March 15,1965 was published. December 16. Law No. 65-022 amended the Investment Code of 1962. December 22. All transactions with Rhodesia were prohibited. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI1 Exchange Rate System The currency of Ma lawi is the Ma lawi Pound. The Malawi pound is at par with the pound sterling, the off ic ial value of the Ma lawi pound being 2.48828 grams of fine gold, which corresponds to £M 1 = US$2.80. The commercial banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1965, the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.81% buying, and US$2.78% selling, per £M 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial banks. The control of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Commerce and Industry, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Ma lawi is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. For prescription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the Sterling Area (the Scheduled Area) and all other countries except Rhodesia ( the External Account A r e a ). Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Malawi pounds through a Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, other than Rhodesia, may be made in sterling or in Malawi pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Malawi pounds f rom an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom sales of any Sterling Area currency, with authorized payments to Sterling Area countries by residents, and with transfers f rom other Scheduled Area Accounts. 1 Malawi became a member of the International Monetary Fund on July 19,1965. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to pay residents of Malawi, or may be transferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Malawi pounds held with authorized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are desig- nated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with author- ized payments by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, with approved transfers from Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds f rom authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Malawi pounds held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Malawi are credited with non- transferable capital sums in Malawi currency wh ich have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on Blocked Accounts in Malawi securities, provided that these are held in Malawi to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on Blocked Account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments The statutory basis of the principal import restrictions is the Control of Goods Ordinance, which authorizes the Minister of Trade and Industry to regulate and control the distribution, disposal, purchase, sale, import, and export of any manufac tured or unmanu fac tu red commodity. For a number of items,2 import licenses are required regardless of the country of origin. All other goods originating in the Sterling Area may be imported f ree of license or, if originating in certain other countries,3 may be imported under an open general license. With 2 Certain agricultural products, new (military type) and used clothing, gold, bags made of ju te fiber, sugar, wheat or flour, cement, white phosphorous matches, flick knives, secondhand accounting machines, certain timber originating in Africa, explosives, arms and ammun i t ion, game traps, wild animals, live fish, and copyright articles. Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Democratic Republic of Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, Federal Republic of Germany, ^Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malagasy Republic, 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI respect to other countries, an import license is required for all com- modities except certain items, such as petroleum products, exposed cinematograph films, bona fide unsolicited gifts not exceeding £M 25 in value, samples, advertising material, etc. Payments for imports f rom all countries must be made within six months a f ter the date of import. Foreign exchange for these payments is automatically granted by the authorized dealers, subject only to the presentation of relevant documents and compliance with import licensing requirements. Any t rans fer of funds in anticipation of imports is prohibited, except with the permission of the exchange control authorities. Advance payments may, however, be made for imports valued at up to £M 50 on production of an invoice or other evidence indicating that the seller requires payment in advance. Imports f rom any Sterling Area country may be paid for in Malawi currency to a local nonresident Scheduled Area account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Imports f rom other areas may be paid for in Ma lawi currency to a local external account, in sterling to an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is £M 10 a day for an adult, with a maximum of £M 300 a calendar year, and £M 5 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a maximum of £M 150 a calendar year. The allowance is cumulative for a period of not more than 3 years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. Applica- tions for amounts exceeding the limits for travel exchange may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Ma lawi on contracts are permitted to remit up to two thirds of their net income to their country of normal residence. To fac i l i ta te small payments individuals are freely permitted to remit abroad up to £M 10 a month. Travelers may take out up to £M 20 in Malawi currency notes and the equivalent of £M 10 in foreign currency notes in addition to their basic travel allowance. Mali, Mauritania, Monaco, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Peru, Portugal, San Marino, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, and Vatican City. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed £M 50 in value are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in foreign exchange not later than six months a f ter the date of exportation. Certain com- modities 4 are subject to export licensing, mainly to insure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, but not more than £M 20 in Malawi currency notes may be imported. The import of cur- rency notes of the fo rmer Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasa land is prohibited. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted or controlled. Out- ward transfers of cap i ta l, inc lud ing those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made w i th f u n ds brought into the country f rom sources outside Malawi. In general, residents are not permitted to t ran s fer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to o f fer for sale to an authorized bank any fore ign exchange which accrues to them. How- ever, residents may purchase securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned f rom these investments must be repatriated and the corresponding fore ign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as fo l lows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over who were self-employed and are leaving the country on retirement, or those q u a l i f y i ng for a pension in terms of their contract employment, are allowed exchange up to £M 7,500 whether single or married. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of retire- 4 Implements of war, ju te and j u te products, lead in any fo rm, certain petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, flick knives, and certain agricultural and animal products. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI ment are allowed £M 3,000 on departure, together with £M 250 for each ch i ld, up to a max imum of £M 4,000 for a fam i ly. (3) Unmarried persons who have not reached retirement age are allowed £M 1,500 on departure. (4) The ba lance of the emigrant's funds is blocked, but he is permitted to t ran s fer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the or ig inal emigration a l lowance on each anniversary of his depar ture f rom Ma law i, up to a max imum of £M 4,000. Applications for emigrants' allowances, whether initial or subsequent, must be submitted to the exchange control authorities for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Malawi. Changes during 1965 February o. Certain cotton and rayon piece goods no longer required an individual import license. June 1. The common monetary area with Rhodesia and Zambia was dissolved. The currency of the fo rmer Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland ceased to be legal tender, with the exception of 3d., Id., and %d. coins. June 1. The Exchange Control Act, 1965 came into effec t. The Reserve Bank of Ma lawi assumed responsibility for the administra- tion of exchange control. Exchange control was imposed on trans- actions with Rhodes ia and Zamb ia. November 17. The p re fe ren t ial t rade agreement with Rhodesia was abrogated with immed ia te effec t. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Malayan Dollar 3.06122 = US$1. The Malayan dollar also circulates in Singapore.1 The Malayan dollar is pegged to the pound sterling at M$l = 2s.4d. The Central Bank of Malaysia has not established official buying and selling rates for foreign currencies. The Board of Commissioners of Currency, Malaya and British Borneo, stands ready to buy sterling from, and sell sterling to, banks in Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei at 2s. 4%d ., and 2s. 3%d., per M$l, respectively. The commercial banks quote mu tua l ly agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified curren- cies.2 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Malayan dollars against sterling in the Kuala Lumpur exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1965, the market rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.06 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malaysia (the States of Malaya and the States of Sabah and Sarawak) .3 Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to-day admin- istration of import control in the States of Ma laya is carried out jointly by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Royal Customs and Excise, and that in Sabah and Sarawak by the Royal Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Malaysia is a member of the Sterling Area and follows the prescrip- tion of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and f rom Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Pay- ments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made either in Ma layan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any foreign currency 10n August 9, 1965, Singapore ceased to be a part of Malaysia. 2 The list of specified currencies is identical with that established under the United Kingdom's exchange control regulations. 8 The customs area includes the free ports of Labuan and Penang. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be obtained either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Indonesia and Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Malaysia, with transfers of Malayan dollars or sterling f rom other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of residents of Indonesia and Rhodesia are designated Indonesian Accounts and Rhodesian Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts are credited with those capital proceeds due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area that are not permitted to be transferred abroad. Balances on Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts may either be invested in Malaysian securi- ties with a maturity beyond five years or, with permission of the Controller of Foreign Exchange, be. transferred to a Blocked Account in the United Kingdom. Permission for such transfers to Blocked Sterling Accounts is given freely. In cases of hardship, moderate amounts are released f rom Blocked Malayan Dollar Accounts. Pro- ceeds accruing from the liquidation of investments made out of Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts must be credited to a Blocked Malayan Dollar Account. Earnings accruing f rom such investments, however, are freely transferab le. Imports and Import Payments Tariffs and import controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not as yet been un if ied, although steps toward fu ll un if ica t ion are being taken. Some internal tar iffs and other trade restrictions still exist between parts of Malaysia. Most imports are permitted freely under open general licenses. Depending on the nature and origin of the goods, specific licenses are required for certain imports for health, security, or moral reasons; certain conditions must be satisfied before 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA licenses for such goods are issued. Certain other imports are subject to quantitative restriction pending the introduction of protective customs duties to protect local industries. Imports into all parts of Malaysia of all commodities f rom South A f r ica, Rhodesia, or any territory administered by Rhodesia, and of certain categories of textiles and household articles f rom Mainland China, are proh ib i ted; all imports of goods of Indonesian origin are subject to specific licensing. In respect of the States of Ma laya, imports of rice f rom any country are conditional on the importer -purchasing one ton of rice from the government reserve stockpile for every ton imported; 4 imports of wheat flour 5 and rice bran f rom all sources and imports of s u g a r6 are subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction for protective reasons. Where necessary, permission is given free ly for payments in foreign currency for all permitted imports. Payments in foreign currency are permitted freely for goods on open general license; for imports that require a special license, exchange control approval is for thcom ing when the license has been granted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and per- sonal payments to other countries, except Indonesia and Rhodesia, are, in general, au thor ized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad. Special arrange- ments permit fam i ly remittances to Ma in land China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 f rom a fam i ly in any one month. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which norma l ly is given f ree ly. Unless special per- mission is obtained, not more than M$500 in Ma layan notes and the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in fore ign notes may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Ma layan notes that may be taken out of Malaysia by travelers going direct to Brunei or Singapore. *This ratio is varied from time to time depending on the turnover of official stocks. 5 Imports of wheat flour into the States of Malaya were to be prohibited with effect from April 1,1966. 8 Including jaggery, rock sugar, and molasses under tariff codes 061 101, 061 109, and 061 500. 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exports and Export Proceeds The three territories of Malaysia at present maintain separate export control systems, although the Federal Government retains the right to legislate in respect of exports f rom any Malaysian territory. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding M$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling A rea; this require- ment serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations and are sold to an authorized bank. Exports of rubber and tin to South A f r i ca and any territory administered by South A f r i ca are prohibited. All exports to Rhodesia and any territory administered by Rhodesia are also prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct f rom Brunei or Singapore may bring in any amount in Ma layan notes, and other travelers may br ing in M$500; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Ma layan notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India, Indonesia, and Rhodesia. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and f rom other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers between Malaysia and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control app rova l; such approval is free ly granted for inward transfers, but the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Malaysia in most cases is subject to ind iv idual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Indonesia and Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is freely permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds f rom an External Account or transferred in a specified cu r rency; invest- ment in stocks and bonds is subject to ind iv idual approval, if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. The repatriation of initial capital and appreciation to countries outside the Sterling Area is permitted only for investment projects that have been approved by the exchange control authorities since January 1, 1950; the proceeds realized f rom investments in recognized market- able securities are not remittable unless accruing to a resident of a 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Scandinavian country. Funds of a capital nature owned by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, the t rans fer of wh ich is not approved by the exchange control authorities, are in the first instance credited to Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts. Balances in such accounts may, on application, be free ly transferred to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom. However, remittances f rom Malaysia to the Scandinavian countries by residents of those countries in respect of their own assets are permitted free ly on application. Banks are permitted to lend funds f ree ly for work ing capital to nonresident- controlled companies, unless a limit has been set to such borrowings by the exchange control authorities. All other transfers of a cap i tal na tu re to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Indonesia and Rhodesia are approved liberally on an ind iv idual basis by the Controller of Foreign Exchange. They include (1) the remittance of funds invested by nonresidents in companies that have gone into voluntary liquidation, provided that the liquidation has not been initiated by the nonres iden t; (2) the t rans fer of proceeds f rom the sale by nonresidents of real estate, fu rn i- ture, etc., provided that the property since purchase has been main- tained solely for occupation and/or use by the owner and has not represented an investment; and (3) gifts up to an annual total of £ stg. 250, although in certain cases applications are approved to the extent of £ stg. 1,000 per annum. Investments by Malaysian nationals in countries outside the Sterling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control authorities; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Changes during 1965 January 21. The ju r isd ic t ion of the Cen tral Bank of Malaysia was extended to Sabah, Sarawak, and Singapore. April 1. The Pioneer Industries (Re l ief f rom Income Tax) Laws were amended to ha rmon ize incentives for indus tr ia l iza t ion through- out Malaysia. May 29. A second list of items to be considered for inclusion in the Malaysian Common Market was published. All customs areas of Malaysia imposed specific licensing, and in some cases quantitative restrictions, on a number of these items. June 22. Exports of rubber and tin f rom Malaysia to South A f r ica or any territory administered by South A f r i ca were prohibited. August 9. Singapore ceased to be a part of Malaysia. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA August 9. Singapore revoked Annex J of the Malaysia Agreement, which provided for the eventual establishment of a Malaysian Common Market. August 12. All trade between Sabah and South A f r i ca or any terri- tory administered by South A f r i ca was prohibited. August 15. Malaysian Government agencies were required to pur- chase locally made goods whenever their price did not exceed by more than 10 per cent that of comparab le fore ign goods; previously, this margin was 5 per cent. September 4- Imports of several fu r t h er items f rom any source into the States of Malaya required a specific license; these items inc luded barbed w ire; wire netting, and household articles of plastic. September 4- A consolidated list was issued of commodities subject to ind iv idual license and quota when imported f rom any source, including Singapore; the list contained 148 items. restrictions on imports October 1. Most removed. October 2. A revised list was issued of imports prohibited into the States of Ma laya unless produced in Ma lays ia or Singapore. These items included condensed m i lk, glutamic acid, monosodium glutamate, insecticides, tires and tubes, air conditioners, and domestic refrigerators. f rom Singapore were October 9. Imports into Sabah, Sarawak, and the port of Labuan of several of the prohibited items for the States of Ma laya (see October 2, above) were prohibited unless the goods were produced in Malaysia or Singapore or imported f rom Sarawak. October 9. Import duties on many goods were increased. October 9. A 'number of imports were freed f r om ind iv idual licensing and quota restriction. October 14. Imports into the States of Ma laya, Sabah, and Sarawak of several commodities were prohibited unless a special license was issued. These included wheat flour and rice bran f r om all sources and certain textiles and household goods f rom Ma in land China. November 1. Customs duties were levied on imports f rom Singapore. November 4- Imports into the States of Ma laya of iron and steel bars and rods f rom all sources required a specific license. Imports into all territories of Malaysia of pencils f rom Mainland China were prohibited. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA November 30. Settlements with Rhodesia were restricted. All pay- ments to Rhodesia were required to be made through Ma layan dollar accounts designated Rhodesian Accoun ts; all debits and credits to such accounts required pr ior approva l. The Rhodesian pound was designated a fore ign currency, and dealing in that currency was restricted. Exchange control approval was required for all exports to Rhodesia. December 16. Imports into and exports from all territories of Malaysia of all goods consigned f rom or to Rhodesia or any territory administered by Rhodesia were prohibited. 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Repub l ic of Mali has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial unit of currency is the Mali f r an c, defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. Parity rates for the CFA f ranc, the French f ranc, and the U.S. dollar are MF 1, MF 50, and MF 246.853, respectively. Only the Bank of the Republic of Mali is authorized to carry out exchange transactions with the public. Purchases and sales of French f rancs and CFA f r an cs are made by the Bank of the Republic at their respective parities. The official buying rate for the U.S. dollar is MF 243.50, and the selling rate is MF 245.00; for 19 additional cur- rencies x off ic ial buy ing and selling rates also are fixed. Rates for other currencies are established separately for each operation. Bilateral pay- ments agreements with 23 countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, below) provide for settlements of transactions covered by these agreements through accounts denominated either in Mali francs or in other specified currenc ies; rates for these specified currencies are unitary. The Bank of the Repub l ic is in charge of settlements covered by bilateral payments agreements. Settlements with other countries are made either directly with the countries concerned or through the intermediary of the Paris exchange market. The Bank of the Republic occasionally concludes with fore ign banks fo rwa rd exchange trans- actions on behalf of its customers. Administration of Control The Bank of the Republic has sole authority in exchange control matters; it exerts this authority through the Exchange Control Office, one of its departments. None of its exchange control powers has been delegated to any other bank or institution. Licenses for imports are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce; those for imports of investment goods must be counter- signed by the State M in is try of P lann ing and Economic and Financial Coordination. Unless con f i rmed by the Bank of the Republic, import licenses do not constitute au tho r iza t ion for mak ing payment for imports. 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French f rancs, I ta l ian lire, Lebanese pounds, Moroccan dirhams, Netherlands guilders, Nigerian pounds, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and Yugoslav dinars. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI A stamp tax is levied on import and export licenses and on applica- tions for financial transfers. The tax is MF 200 for each MF 100,000 or fraction thereof on amounts up to MF 1 million. On amounts in excess of MF 1 million, the tax is MF 1,000 for each MF 1 million or fraction thereof. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral pay- ments agreements are made in currencies and through accounts estab- lished under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are maintained with Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Mainland China, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, North Korea, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, Tunisia, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia.2 There are no special prescription of currency regulations applicable to settlements with other countries; settlements with these countries that require individual licenses must be made in convertible currencies. Nonresident Accounts Exchange control regulations provide for two categories of non- resident accounts: (1) Free Nonresident Accounts in Convertible Currencies and (2) Nonresident Accounts in Mali Francs. The first category may be credited only with transfers from abroad of con- vertible currencies; the accounts may be used for all payments in Mali and for transfers abroad subject to the approval of the Bank of the Republic, which is granted free ly. Transfers between these accounts are free. The second category may be credited with amounts due to nonresidents in Mali francs for rents, capital receipts, etc. Debits f rom these accounts may be made in accordance with the provisions of the exchange control regulations. All operations through these accounts require the approval of the Bank of the Republic. Certain categories of nonresident funds in Mali francs of a capital or other nature are credited to special foreign accounts, which are de facto blocked. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons. Imports of all other goods require individual licenses, which are issued in accordance with an annual import program that provides quotas for each import category and are valid for imports 2 The payments agreements with Albania, Mauritania, and Tunisia are inoperative. 372 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI from all countries. Licenses are valid up to six months; however, if the need for a longer period is jus t if ied, they may be extended for three months. Import licenses are of two kinds —licenses for which the Bank of the Republic grants foreign exchange and licenses "with- out foreign exchange" for transactions to be financed by the importer with funds he holds abroad. Imports may be made either by private importers or by state enterprises, among which the Societe Malienne de I'lmport-Export (SOMIEX) is by far the most important, having a monopoly over the import of 11 items.3 An allocation commission establishes quotas for each private importer on the basis of his turnover and the number of his employees. Import licenses are issued to the private importer up to the limit of the quota accorded to him. In addition, private importers may import specified goods under the EXIC procedure (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low). Payments for imports may be made only when authorized by the Bank of the Republic, the import license being a document required for customs clearance. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require individual approval which is granted on a restricted basis. Payments for expenses incidental to foreign trade are permitted when payment for the basic import transaction is authorized, or when the export transaction is permitted. Specified current payments are licensed up to established limits (e.g., percentages of salaries drawn by fo re igne rs ). Income and prof i ts f rom nonresident investments in Mali that are granted benefits under the special foreign investment law (see section on Capital, below) may be transferred in accordance with provisions of investment agreements concluded by the Government with indi- vidual nonresident investors. Foreign enterprises operating in Mali that are not granted the benefits of the special foreign investment law may transfer abroad only 25 per cent of their income or profits. Residents of Mali may purchase foreign exchange up to the equiva- lent of MF 3,000 a day for official or business trips. This daily exchange allowance may be increased to the equivalent of MF 5,000 a day if the increase is jus t if ied by the high cost of living in the country to be visited. In exceptional cases, higher exchange allowances may be granted. 8 Flour, milk, salt, sugar, oil, tea, soap, matches, cigarettes, cement, and empty bags; trade in these commodities is reserved for SOMIEX. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Nonresidents leaving Mali af ter a temporary stay may export foreign means of payment up to the amount declared upon entry into the country. They may also exchange Malian currency for foreign cur- rency, provided that they can prove the previous sale of such foreign currency to the Bank of the Republic or to an authorized agent. The export of Malian currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports require individual licenses in order to assure the repatria- tion of export proceeds. The export of cotton, groundnuts, hides, skins, and meat, which constitute most of the controlled export trade, is reserved for state enterprises. With the exceptions mentioned below, proceeds accruing from exports must be surrendered. At the time the export licenses are issued, exporters are required to make a guarantee deposit equal to 10 per cent of the value of the intended exports; the deposit is returned upon sub- mission of evidence that the exchange proceeds have been surrendered. Under the EXIC (Exportation et Importation Concomitante) pro- cedure, exporters may retain 50 per cent of proceeds f rom exports of livestock and fish, or 40 per cent of proceeds accruing f rom exports other than those above and those covered by the monopoly of state trading companies, for payment for their own imports included in the EXIC list and made through regular off ic ial channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import rights under the EXIC procedure are not transferable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds accruing from transactions in invisibles must be sur- rendered. The import of Malian currency is prohibited. Capital Residents, whether of foreign or Malian nationality, may not make capital transfers on private account. Foreigners leaving Mali permanently are permitted to transfer abroad (1) funds up to a total of six months' salary, resulting f rom the sale of personal property that was in their possession for at least six months, and (2) savings out of their salary and income earned in Mali, provided that they have not taken advantage of transfer privileges in respect of their salary (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Funds specified under (1) and (2) may be transferred abroad in five equal annual installments. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Nonresident enterprises operating in Mali are permitted to transfer abroad in ten equal annual installments funds accruing f rom the partial or total liquidation of such enterprises. Funds mentioned in this and the preceding pa rag raph that are kept on special fore ign accounts with the Bank of the Republic bear 3 per cent interest a year, wh ich is transferab le. All or part of certain categories of funds in Mali f r an cs owned by nonresidents must be used either to purchase 3 per cent 20-year bonds issued by the Bank of the Republic or to make investments that are approved by the Ministry of P lann ing. Proceeds f rom the amortiza- tion of bonds as well as interest on them may be transferred abroad. According to Law No. 62 of Janua ry 15, 1962, the Government may grant special privileged status, providing for transfer, tax, and other preferen t ial treatment, to nonresident investments that would be of special interest to the Ma l ian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Economic Plan. Under this law, each fore ign invest- ment is treated individually. Preferen t ial investment trea tment may permit (1) the t rans fer of profits du r ing a period not exceeding 15 years and the repatriation of proceeds accruing f rom the liquidation of an investment or (2) the transfer dur ing a period to be established in each case of amounts that would inc lude the va lue of investments and prof i ts, the max imum yearly rate of which is also to be agreed. In the latter instance, an enterprise becomes the property of the Government without any indemnity, a f t er the established period has lapsed. Changes during 1965 February 1. The o f f ic ial buy ing rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from MF 244.50 to MF 243.50, and the off ic ial selling rate was changed f rom MF 245.50 to MF 245.00. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Maur i tan ia has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f r an cs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfr ique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting f rom the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r anc plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the other currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import and export licenses and certificates of importation are issued by the Department of Economic A f f a i rs with the consent of the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Mauritania is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Spain are made through bilateral accounts expressed in U.S. dollars .2 Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly. Most imports f rom other countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined xT he CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mali. 376 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA each year by a jo int French-Maur i tan ian Committee. Under this program, global quotas are established for non l ibera l ized imports f rom EEC countries other than France and for imports f rom most other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders and to industrial or agr icu l tural producers. Most imports f rom EEC countries other than France, and some imports f rom all sources, are liberalized. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. All imports f rom Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The import license or cer t if ica te of importation entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing docu- ments are submitted to the authorized bank. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ), licenses for the import of goods to be used directly by exporters are approved f ree ly, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly to countries in the French Franc A rea; those to other countries are usua l ly subject to the approval of the Exchange Off ice. However, authorized banks may, without prior authorization f rom the Exchange Off ice, sell fore ign exchange for the fo l low ing categories of invisibles: (1) expenses related to approved commercial transactions, such as transportation, sundry expenses, insurance; (2) var ious services, e.g., subscriptions, bank ing charges, rent, f a rm leases, support allowances paid under court deci- sions; (3) tourist travel up to the equivalent of CFAF 250,000 a person for each t r ip; and (4) any payment not exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. In addition, the Exchange Office authorizes free ly the transfer of profits f rom foreign investments in Maur i tan ia. Representa- tion, advertising expenses, and business travel may be financed with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Travelers to Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in French f rancs, or up to CFAF 75,000 in CFA f rancs or up to CFPF 75,000 in CFP francs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA any French Franc Area currency other than the French f r a n c. Non- resident travelers may take out fore ign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly. Goods that are not liberalized for export to all other countries require a license; those that are l ibera l ized require an exchange commitment, wh ich is sub ject to approval by the Exchange Off ice. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain a specified percentage of export proceeds in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts, which may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own business, for represen- tation and advertising expenses, or for business trips abroad. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of other countries, and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom fo re ign securities, must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers f rom Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers f rom other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the Area. Capital Capital movements between Mauritania and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of control; those between Mauritania and all other countries require approval. The Investment Code (Law 61-122) enacted on June 26, 1961 provides for two kinds of preferential treatment for the establishment of specified companies in Mauritania: a priority regime and a long-term 378 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA fiscal stability regime. Under the first regime, the proposed investment must amount to at least CFAF 75 million, to be made within a period of up to 2 years, and must provide employment for at least 20 persons. The benefits accorded under this regime include exemptions for a specified number of years f rom duties on the import of certain materials as well as f rom taxes on specified income. Under the second regime, certain companies considered to be of exceptional importance to the development of the country and mak ing a minimum investment of CFAF 1 billion in less than 5 years are accorded special benefits, which consist mainly of the stabilization of some or all taxes for a period of up to 25 years. Changes during 1965 January,!. Imports f rom EEC countries other than France that were still subject to quantitative restriction were liberalized, with the exception of dairy products, beer, sugar, automobiles and their parts, motorcycles, and bicycles and their parts. February 25. Imports of canned fish, wheat grain, and wheat flour from countries of the West A f r ican Customs Union were liberalized. March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Ruman ia, wh ich was also app l icab le to Mau r i tan ia, was terminated. December 1. Imports f rom and exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par value is Mexican Pesos 12.50 = US$1. The off ic ial rates are Mex$12.49 buying, and Mex$12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at market rates fluctuating within these limits. The closing market rates on December 31, 1965 were Mex$12.490 buying, and Mex$12.491 selling, per US$1. On November 12,1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from nonresidents are imposed on importers, exporters, or others. In accordance with the payments agreement between the Bank of Mexico and the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, payments for transactions with Spain are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through a special account. Payments between Mexico and Argentina may be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Bank of Mexico and the Central Bank of Argentina. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Mexican pesos through the Camara de Compensacion Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America. Imports and Import Payments Payments and t rans fe rs abroad may be made free ly. Payments for imports f rom Spain are recorded through a special account. For a con- siderable number of items, import licenses f rom the Ministry of Industry and Trade are required before firm orders are p laced; the issuance of such licenses is subject to quantitative restriction. Some items require an import license only when imported f rom countries other than those of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA). Applications are screened by a committee composed of importers, private entrepreneurs, and government representatives. Import licenses for leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and motorcars and their spare parts are subject to an over-all annual limit. Imports of certain goods (assembled and unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipes, firearms, watches, synthetic fibers, some types of jewe l ry, radios and television sets, equipment, machinery, and whisky, wines, and other l iquors) are licensed only if the importer guarantees the export of specified commodities (ma in ly cotton) of an 380 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO equivalent value. Imports and exports under this compensation system are effected by the National Foreign Trade Bank, which levies on the importer a fee of between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent of the value of the import transac t ion, and turns the fee minus a commission over to the exporter. Exports effec ted under this system account for approxi- mately 50 per cent of the value of total exports. Imports by official Mexican agencies are sub ject to prior approval by the Committee of Public Sector Impor ts; this approval is not given if a reasonably competitive domestic equivalent is available. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. The contracting of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico is permitted with Mexican companies or with branches of foreign companies established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports requ ire licenses. No exchange control requirements apply to the proceeds of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds f rom invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New fo re ign investment, other than by private individuals, in Mexican banking or insurance companies and investment funds is prohibited. Changes during 1965 February 23. Commodities corresponding to some 300 tar iff items required an import license; most were exempt f rom the requirement when imported f rom LAFTA countries. April 30. It was announced that annual exports of sulphur must in fu ture be limited to 10 per cent of new reserves discovered dur ing the year in question. June 10. It was officially announced that the Government would encourage a ma jo r i ty control of m in ing companies by Mexican citizens. 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO August 14- Many additional commodities required an import license. September 22. A multilateral clearing agreement was signed by the central banks of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. September 22. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed between the Bank of Mexico and the Central Bank of Argentina. September 30. The National Foreign Trade Council was recon- stituted. December 22. The participation of new foreign capital, other than that by private individuals, in Mexican banking or insurance compa- nies and investment funds was prohibited. 382 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO * Exchange Rate System The par value is Moroccan Dirhams 5.06049 = US$1. The rate of the dirham in relation to the French f ranc is fixed at DH 1.025 per F 1; all transactions in French f rancs take place at that rate, plus or minus a commission. The Bank of Morocco's buying and selling rates for the "convertible currencies" it nego t ia tes2 and for the Spanish peseta are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1965 were DH 5.0190 buying, and DH 5.0335 selling, per US$1. Transactions in clearing dollars under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of the official par values declared to the International Monetary Fund. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are permitted to offset their foreign exchange trans- actions with their private customers. The authorized banks must sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensation between banks is not permitted, so that no foreign exchange market exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of foreign currency in the Paris exchange market. The Bank of Morocco estab- lishes buying and selling rates for banknotes expressed in French francs, CFA f rancs, Spanish pesetas, and the "convertible currencies," both for dealings among banks and their transactions with the public. Forward exchange transactions are not permitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Moroccan Exchange Office, an agency under the Ministry of Finance. This office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued either by the Ministry of Commerce or by its provincial delegations; they must be countersigned by the Moroccan Exchange Office. "Import commitments" needed for many imports f rom the French Franc Area (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below) require both approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the visa of the Exchange Office unless they are accompanied by a "quota certificate" or an import license. A part of aln view of a change that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 2 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, D j ibou ti francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Morocco is part of the French Franc Area but does not participate in the institutions of the Area. For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area coun- tries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments ag reemen ts ;3 and (3) all other countries, the so-called area of convertibility. Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dirhams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Non- resident Accounts, be low). Settlements with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreement accounts established for this purpose.4 Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco (see footnote 2 ). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan currency by residents of other countries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements with residents of other countries in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports f rom those countries. They may be freely credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French f rancs {except banknotes) sold to or bought from the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for resi- dents of countries in the so-called area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited free ly with authorized payments due to residents of countries in the area of convertibility (but not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and with dirhams obtained f rom the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible currencies" negotiated by 8 Bulgaria, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Guinea, Hungary, Mali, Poland, Spain, U.S.S,R., and United Arab Republic. * Under the agreement with Cuba, however, 40 per cent of each Moroccan import payment is settled in free French francs. Under the agreement with the United Arab Republic, the Suez Canal dues are settled in convertible currencies. 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases f rom the Bank of Morocco of the "convert- ible currencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or similar institutions) of the countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3), except Spain; they are used only for settlements with these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. All transactions on these accounts require approval. 4. Spanish Foreign Accounts in Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and by authorized banks in Morocco for authorized banks in Spain. They are used only for settlements in accordance with the payments agreement with Spain. 5. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited with funds that may not be transferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same currency group (the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same country in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscrip- tions to the capital of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to long-term or short-term obligations with a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan entity (short-term obligations are those that mature or become payable in five years or le s s ); for custody charges and commissions on securities held for nonresidents; for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate fam i ly during their stay in Morocco, up to DH 100 a day for each account; and for payment of the costs of maintenance, repairs, taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual licenses. 6. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonresident funds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used freely to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments There is a lengthy list of permitted imports, which is applicable to all countries. Imports of all other commodities are prohibited from all sources. For certain goods on the permitted list, protective quotas are established; for imports of such goods from any source a "quota certificate" (certificat de contingentement) is required. 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO For all imports the import title —import license or "import commit- ment" (engagement d'importation]—must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank, wh ich may make payments upon submission of the required documents. With certain exceptions, an advance deposit of 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value must be made by importers at the time the import transaction is domiciled with an authorized bank; the bank must pay one half of the deposit to the Bank of Morocco to be held for account of the Treasury. For most imports f rom other parts of the French Franc Area, except Senegal, the transaction must be domiciled and the advance deposit paid at least one month before importation takes place. Import licenses for goods originating outside the French Franc Area must be domiciled within a period of 15 days f rom the date that the Exchange Office approves the license. "Import commitments" for goods from the French Franc Area must be domiciled within 15 days a f ter their approval by the Ministry of Commerce and the Exchange Office. The fo l low ing are exempt f rom the advance deposit requirement: government imports; imports financed with U.S. a i d; imports f rom countries in the payments agreement group; imports f rom Senegal; specified essential imports; and imports by specified organizations. The deposit is re funded when the import has taken place and payment has been made in fu l l, or, in certain circumstances, if the license or the "import commitment" is allowed to expire. Imports f rom other parts of the French Franc Area of petroleum products, oils and fa ts, cereals, and textile materials require an import license. All private imports f rom the French Franc Area require an "import commitment" signed by the importer and domiciled with an authorized bank; with minor exceptions, domiciliation must take place at least one month before the actual importation. Unless they are at the same time covered by a "quota certificate" or an import license, the "import commitment" for many goods must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and the Exchange O f f i c e; import commit- ments for specified goods shipped f rom the French customs territory do not require such approval. The authorized banks may make pay- ments freely when an approved "import commitment" is domiciled with them. Imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area require individual licenses. Commodities imported f rom countries in the area of convertibility are listed in an annual General Import Program and are divided into two groups: List A, for which import licenses are issued up to the limit of importers' needs, and List L, for which the issue of licenses is limited to the published quotas. Imports f rom countries in the payments agreement group are made in accordance 386 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO with the quotas established in the respective trade agreements. Imports can also be licensed under compensation transactions. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most current invisibles are authorized by the Exchange Office upon presentation of the necessary jus t i f ica t ion; in several instances the approval authority has been delegated to the banks. The authorized banks are permitted to make payments and settle expenses incidental to the commercial transaction covered by the relevant import documents. Earn ings a f ter tax on approved nonresident invest- ments in Morocco are t ran s fe rab le to the investor's country of residence. The t ran s fer of dividends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroccan companies hav ing their main office in Morocco has been delegated to the authorized banks by the Exchange Office, provided that the shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange and that the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the dividend to be d is tr ibu ted; the t ran s fer of other dividends requires specific approval by the Exchange Off ice. Some payments are sub ject to limitations: A fore ign employee may t r an s f er to his country of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Off ice, 50 per cent of his wages or salary if his fam i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco; the same percentages of their earnings may be t rans fe r red by fo re ign nationals engaged in professions, subject (except for the medical and related profess ions) to a limit of DH 1,000 a month. An allocation of fo re ign exchange equivalent to DH 25 a trip, which may be taken up twice a year, is granted to residents of any nationality for tourist travel. Residents of fo re ign nationality may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 1,000 for each passport a year by selling to an au thor ized bank a correspond- ing amount in fo re ign exchange, other than banknotes, f rom their own foreign assets not sub ject to surrender requirements. Applications for exchange for business travel must norma l ly be directed to the Exchange Off ice, which considers each case on its mer i ts; exporters may be granted up to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, or 1 per cent of the fore ign exchange surrendered dur ing the preceding year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tourist travel. For study abroad, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 500 is granted, provided that no comparable educational facilities are available in Morocco. For fam i ly mainte- nance, there is a mon th ly allocation of DH 250. Travelers are not permitted to take out Moroccan banknotes. 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are required for a few items. All fruits, f resh vegetables, canned goods, and hand ic ra ft products may only be exported by a state-trading agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de Commercialisa- tion et Exportation—OCE). All exporters must sign an under tak ing to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports. Collection of the proceeds must take place within a month f rom the date the payment is due. The date on which the payment is due is the maturity date fixed in the commercial con trac t; this date must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days a f ter the date of arrival of the merchandise at the place of destination. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds from exports receives the advice of credit in foreign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immedi- ately to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan nationality and Moroccan companies must repatriate exchange receipts accruing f rom all their noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other residents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result f rom current transactions, and only when they accrue in foreign currencies other than those of the French Franc Area. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in free ly foreign banknotes, wh ich must be declared upon entry. Resident travelers also may b r ing in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surrendered w i th in 15 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan nationality, as well as companies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign- held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other fore ign-he ld assets requires permission. The t rans fer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Exchange is allocated to emigrants and repatriates up to DH 35,000 a fam i ly, and on account of dowries and inheritances up to the same amount. Foreign investments in Morocco must be approved by the Exchange Office. Foreign investments approved by the Investment Committee are granted various tax and customs tar iff benefits and investment 388 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO bonuses similar to those granted to domestic investments, in accordance with measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; they are also granted a guarantee of repatriation of the proceeds from liquidation of the investment, when the investment has been financed either with convertible currencies or in con fo rm i ty with the rules governing settle- ments with other countries. The Exchange Office may also grant a guarantee of re transfer of investments wh ich are not examined by the Government Commission. The guarantee of repatriation is free ly t rans fe rab le between all nonresidents (if the investment has been financed with convertible currencies) and between nonresidents of the same country or currency area (if the investment has been financed with other currenc ies). Proceeds f rom the liquidation of other investments are credited to Capital Accounts. All transactions in securities involving nonresident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Changes during 1965 January 1. The bilateral trade agreement with Guinea expired; the payments agreement continued in fo rce. January 1. Imports on cash on delivery terms by post or air fre ight were no longer permitted. Imports without payment and imports of a noncommercial na ture valued at more than DH 100 required an individual import license. February 1. The list of permitted imports was expanded. February 18. A new payments agreement with Cuba was signed; settlements were to be made in French f r an cs instead of pounds sterling. Forty per cent of each Moroccan import payment was to be effected in f ree French f r an cs and the balance by credit to an agree- ment account in French f r an cs opened by the Bank of Morocco for the National Bank of Cuba; all other settlements betweeri Cuba and Morocco would hencefor th be made through the agreement account. Cuba would use all balances in the account for purchases of Moroccan goods. February 25. Drawings on Capital Accounts for personal expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly were limited to DH 100 a day for each account. March 1. Ruman ia was included in the convertibility area. Ruma- nian Foreign Accounts in Dirhams were abolished. March 4- Nonresident travelers leaving Morocco af ter a stay of at least 48 hours could convert local currency into convertible currencies up to 25 per cent of the total amount of such currencies previously 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO sold to an authorized bank; for participants in organized tours staying in Morocco not over 48 hours the corresponding ratio was set at 100 per cent. March 10. A slightly revised version of the list of permitted imports was issued. March 22. Residents could pay in d irhams for single or round-trip tickets for travel to any country. Nonresidents in certain instances also could pay for travel tickets in dirhams. May 22. Agreement was reached with France to ease import controls reciprocally. As f rom June 1, 1965, a number of imports f rom French Franc Area countries would be exempted f rom the visa requirement in Morocco; as f rom July 1, 1965, certain Moroccan commodities would be exempted f rom the visa requirement in France. May 26. The General Import Program for 1965 was announced. July 1-15. Teachers of foreign nationality employed by the Ministry of National Education and experts holding contracts within the framework of the technical cooperation agreements with France could obtain a complementary tourist allocation of Ptas 3,500 for travel through Spain when on leave. July 9. The Office of Marketing and Export was established. It was granted a monopoly over the export and sale abroad of all fru i ts, fresh vegetables, canned products ( f ish, f ru i ts, vegetables, and j u i c e s ), and hand ic ra ft products. August 4- All international trade transactions in the free trade zone of Tangier were freed f rom control. Payments relating to such trans- actions could be effected without exchange control supervision through "Tangier Accounts in Foreign Exchange" or in any other manner. November 1. Import duties on many commodities were increased. November 3. A large number of commodities were added to the list of permitted imports. December 17. Additional commodities were brought under protective quota; certain commodities which had previously had a nil quota, such as television sets, would be admitted in limited quantities. NOTE.—The fo l low ing change was made early in 1966: January 1. Transfers of earnings by fore ign employees and foreign nationals engaged in professions could be made on a monthly rather than on a semiannual basis. 390 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Exchange Rate System No par value for the Nepalese Rupee has been established with the Fund. The o f f ic ial rate of exchange vis-a-vis the Indian rupee is NRs 160 = Rs 100, giving a relationship of approximately NRs 7.619 = US$1. Most of Nepal's fore ign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees; but where other currencies are involved, the rates are based on the above relationship and the exchange rate for the other currency concerned against the Indian rupee. On December 31, 1965, the rate for the U.S. do l lar was NRs 7.60 buying, NRs 7.68 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of representatives f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central bank) and several ministries, pre- pares a fore ign exchange budget for fore ign currencies other than the Ind ian rupee. Permission is required f rom the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, except payments for certain specified invisibles that require authorization f rom the Nepal Rastra Bank and all pay- ments to India made in Nepalese or Indian rupees. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. All export and import transactions are made th rough authorized dealers in foreign exchange, i.e., the Nepal Bank and the Rashtriya Van i jya Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing pay- ments, and these may be made in the fore ign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank —in practice mostly Indian rupees, sterling, or U.S. dollars. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Indian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in convertible currencies, such as deutsche mark, Japanese yen, pounds sterling, Swiss f ranc s, or U.S. dollars. Nepal has a bilateral trade and payments agreement with Pakistan and a payments agreement with Ma in land China. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those of Indian origin require import licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable oil, margarine, animal fa t, beef, arms and ammunition, explosives, chemicals to be used for explosives, and wire- less transmitters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL of September 11, 1960, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Indian goods; Indian goods may be imported f ree ly, and imports of all commodities subject to excise duty in India benefit f rom reimbursement of tax by the Government of India to the Government of Nepal. With the exception noted below, applications to the Ministry of Finance for fore ign exchange to pay for imports f rom countries other than India are considered on their mer i ts; an application must, how- ever, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget and its list of commodities. Exporters entitled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitlements are, within the limits of their entitle- ment, granted a license au toma t ica l ly (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e l ow ); they may obtain licenses also for all goods not included in the fo re ign exchange budget. Payments for Invisibles Payments to India may be made freely in Indian or Nepalese rupees. Payments to other countries for invisibles related to commercial transactions are usually authorised; payments for f re ight and insur- ance are given the same treatment as the related import payments. For travel to countries other than India for medical treatment, foreign exchange is allowed up to the equivalent of US$1,000; students studying at their own expense in .these countries are allowed up to US$1,500 a year. Payments for other invisibles depend on the essen- tiality of the transaction and the availability of foreign exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be taken out free ly to India by Nepalese and Indian nationals on ly; the export of these currencies to countries other than India is prohibited. Foreign banknotes other than Indian banknotes may not be taken out by residents without permis- sion. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign banknotes they brought in; however, nonresidents other than Indian nationals may not take out Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver and coins and jewelry made of these metals, cows, buffa loes, and rhinoceros horns are prohibited. The re-export to India of non-Nepalese goods is not normally permitted, and re-exports to any destination of kerosene, petrol, cement, iron bars, and packaged foods tuffs are prohibited. All other goods may be exported freely. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Ind ian rupees, must be declared and surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank. The exporter receives f rom the Ministry of Finance an exporters' exchange entitle- 392 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL ment corresponding to a specified proportion of his export proceeds in foreign currencies other than Indian rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the off ic ial rate for any type of import, whether included in the foreign exchange budget or not. Exporters engaged in barter trade are granted entitlements cor- responding to 40 per cent of their export earnings; the remaining 60 per cent must be used to import specified commodities. Other exporters of "general exports" receive entitlements corresponding to 40 per cent of the proceeds f rom exports of raw ju te and musk, 50 per cent of those f rom exports of ju te manufactures, and 60 per cent of those from exports of all other goods. Industries not incurring heavy foreign exchange expenditures receive entitlements corresponding to 30 per cent of their export proceeds, while industries incurring heavy foreign exchange expenditures receive entitlements for the following percentages of export earnings dur ing the preceding year: 60 per cent of export earnings of NRs 2 million or less; 70 per cent of export earn- ings over NRs 2 million but not in excess of NRs 4 m i l l ion; 80 per cent of earnings over NRs 4 million but not in excess of NRs 6 m i l l ion; and 85 per cent of earnings over NRs 6 million. The corresponding per- centages for industries exporting raw ju te and ju te manufactures are 55 per cent, 65 per cent, 75 per cent, and 80 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Indian rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived f rom transactions in invisibles must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank at the off ic ial rate of exchange. Nepalese and Indian currency may be brought in free ly f rom India by Nepalese and Indian nationals; the import of these currencies from countries other than India is prohibited. Nonresidents other than Indian nationals are not allowed to bring in Nepalese or Indian banknotes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transactions, but off ic ial exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese nationals. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from making any type of investment in foreign countries except investments spe- cifically exempted by government notice published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by banking and financial institu- tions incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Foreign investors in Nepal who obtain an investment guarantee may remit yearly profits of at least 10 per cent of the capital invested and, in any one year, up to 25 per cent of the principal. Industrial enterprises capitalized at US$65,000 or more may be wholly owned by foreign interests. Nepal has a bilateral Investment Guarantee Agreement with the United States. Changes during 1965 February 8. The following types of investment operations abroad by Nepalese citizens were exempted f rom the investment prohibition established by the law of August 28, 1964: (1) purchasing and selling insurance policies ab road; (2) keeping deposits in foreign banks of money earned abroad, when living ab road; (3) keeping balances not exceeding NRs 15,000 in current deposit accounts of foreign banks, while living in holy places abroad for religious purposes; (4) making investments abroad by bank ing and f inanc ial institutions incorporated in Nepa l; (5) maintaining current and savings deposit accounts in foreign banks for household expenses when living ab road; and (6) pur- chasing shares of foreign companies under stock rights. March 12. Exporters' exchange entitlements ceased to be transferable. March 14. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act of 1962 was enforced in 7 additional areas of the country, bringing the total num- ber of such areas to 36. October 17. The Foreign Exchange Regulation Act of 1962 was enforced in one additional area, bringing the total number of such areas to 37. 394 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Guilders 3.62 = US$1. The off ic ial limits are f. 3.59% buying, and f. 3.64% selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to dea l; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits that result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by the Netherlands and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Authorized banks are permitted to buy and sell convertible cur- rencies1 and to sell inconvertible currencies, both spot and forward for up to 12 months' delivery, against convertible currencies, including guilders on Convertible Guilder Accounts. Forward exchange contracts by authorized banks for more than 12 months require individual licenses, which are granted freely. The authorized banks may also purchase inconvertible currencies f rom banks abroad against any foreign currency or guilders on a Convertible Guilder Account or a Bilateral Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low), provided that the amounts bought are used for current pay- ments. Residents are permitted to conclude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may conclude forward transactions for up to 12 months' delivery with authorized banks. Foreign exchange related to transactions in securities (see section on Capital, below) is traded in a spot market at f r ee rates that are, in practice, very close to the off ic ial market rates. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Ne ther lands Antilles and Surinam are subject to exchange control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with which payments agreements are in fo rce, the Netherlands, the Nether- lands Antilles, and Surinam constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. 1 These are listed in the Netherlands regulations as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Netherlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign A f fa i r s, Finance, Economic A f fa i rs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and the delegated offices, under direc- tives f rom the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital transactions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are all transit trade transactions. Practically all commercial banks are authorized to hand le foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank either in guilders to the credit of a nonresident guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. All foreign countries except Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are included in the "convertible guilder area." Payments to countries in the convert- ible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guilders to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts f rom countries in the convertible guilder area must be obtained in the convertible curren- cies (see footnote 1), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, b e l ow ); how- ever, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, provided that the amounts received are deposited with an authorized bank and are only used for current transactions. Transactions with Indonesia and the U.S.S.R. are settled in guilders by crediting or debiting the Bilateral Guilder Account of a banking institution of the country concerned; receipts may also be obtained in the convertible currencies, or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as fo l lows :2 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers f rom other Convert- ible Guilder Accounts, with permitted payments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, 2 Certain balances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Indonesia or Rumania are designated W-accounts and W-deposits, respectively; their disposal must be licensed by the Netherlands Bank. 396 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible currencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of foreign currencies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other nonresident account. 2. Bilateral Guilder Accounts. These accounts are held exclusively by banking institutions established in Indonesia and the U.S.S.R., and are used for the settlement of transactions between the Netherlands and the respective country. They may be credited with transfers from any Convertible Guilder Account or from another Bilateral Guilder Account related to the same country, and with proceeds f rom the sale in the Netherlands of gold or convertible currencies. They may be debited for transfers to another Bilateral Guilder Account related to the same country. 3. K Accounts. These accounts may be held by all nonresidents, regardless of nationality. Balances on K Accounts may be used only for payments directly resulting f rom transactions in securities. K Accounts may be credited with proceeds from the sale of foreign currencies, with transfers from Convertible Guilder Accounts or with funds that may be credited to Convertible Guilder Accounts, with transfers f rom other K Accounts, and with proceeds f rom the sale of foreign and domestic securities. K Accounts may be debited for pur- chases of foreign and domestic securities, for transfers to any other K Account, and for purchases of foreign currencies. Convertible cur- rencies acquired in this manner ("reinvestment currencies") must be obtained by debiting a resident's "reinvestment" account (in which are held the foreign exchange proceeds in convertible currencies of resi- dents' sales of securities to nonresidents). Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports from Rhodesia and for many textiles from all sources except the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Union. In addition to these, import licenses are required only for imports f rom the Sino-Soviet area, Hong Kong, and Japan, and for the import of goods of unknown origin and of a limited number of products mainly f rom the agrarian sector. Except for imports from Rhodesia, practically all imports that require an import license are free from quantitative restriction. Imports of tobacco of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Payments for imports may be made f ree ly, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regulations. 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided up to the countervalue in the appropriate currency of f. 3,000 for trips lasting up to two weeks, and the entire allowance may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. For longer visits, exchange equivalent to f. 150 a day will be provided for fu r ther periods up to 75 days, mak ing an additional allowance of f. 11,250 a person. A resident traveling abroad may have, in addition to the afore- mentioned amounts, the equivalent of f. 1,500 remitted to him through banking channels. Amounts in excess of these limits are granted by the Netherlands Bank unless unauthorized capital outflow seems to be involved. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted free ly by crediting the appropriate nonresident account. Nonresidents may export all unu t i l ized negotiable instruments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have imported or have obtained in the Netherlands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia of arms, ammunition, and petroleum products are prohibited; all other exports to Rhodesia require an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a few commodities, mostly of a strategic character, and for some agricultural products. The surrender of export proceeds is not ob l iga tory; but any surrender that is made must be at the o f f ic ial rate. The collection of export proceeds is obligatory. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be collected but need not be surrendered and may instead be credited to foreign currency accounts. For settlement in guilders of incoming exchange exceeding f. 500 derived f rom current invisibles, the recipient must indicate to an authorized bank the nature of the underlying transaction, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands unlimited amounts in Netherlands banknotes, foreign banknotes, and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank, to an authorized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an authorized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Nether- lands. Residents are obliged to bring back to the Netherlands any 398 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS unutilized portion of the banknotes and coins which they were entitled to take with them on their outward journey. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the sh i f t ing of fore ign- owned capital within the Netherlands f rom one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses are granted for most types of capital transaction. Borrowing and lending abroad by residents are restricted for reasons of capital market policy. Capital issues in the Netherlands on behalf of nonresidents are restricted; guilder issues are ind iv idua l ly licensed by the Netherlands Bank within global limits that are established annua l ly in accordance with the prospects for the domestic capital market and the balance of payments. Permission is granted freely for the transfer abroad of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments in industrial enterprises established in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized f ree ly in respect of inheritances f rom estates devolving in the Netherlands. New capital investments in the Ne ther lands by nonresidents are in general permitted, if made in convertible currenc ies; inward direct investment is free ly permitted. Local borrowing by nonresident- controlled companies is not norma l ly permitted to exceed the sum of imported share capital, p lowed-back prof ts, and foreign long-term loans. Direct investment abroad by residents is authorized on applica- tion, provided that no capital flight seems to be involved. All authorized capital transactions, other than transactions in securities, take place at the o f f ic ial exchange market rates. All payments for transactions between residents and nonresidents in domestic and fore ign securities are channeled through a f ree market, where payments and receipts must be either in guilders through K Accounts or in convertible currencies through "reinvestment" accounts (see be low ). In addition, nonresidents may debit their Convertible Guilder Accounts to pay residents for transactions in securities. Residents may buy fore ign securities f rom, or sell them to, other residents against guilders. Residents may sell securities abroad against any foreign currency. The exchange so acquired must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Ne ther lands and may be sold or retained. If convertible currencies are acquired, a "reinvest- ment" account may be credited. Balances in "reinvestment" accounts may be used to buy abroad securities o f f ic ia l ly quoted either in the Netherlands or ab road; such balances may be sold freely in the off ic ial exchange market. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Nonresidents may have their securities, Netherlands or foreign, exported to them, except securities held in W-deposits (see footnote 2 ). Emigrants may avail themselves of the same fac i l i t ies as travelers (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above ), i.e., export up to f. 14,250 for each person. Emigrants acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Netherlands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years; they may then have remitted to them the total of their assets in the Netherlands. Changes during 1965 February 15. Authorized banks could take up fore ign loans not already quoted on a fo re ign stock exchange; the listing of fore ign securities on the Amsterdam stock exchange no longer required prior listing on a fore ign stock exchange. April 1. Power stations could f ree ly import dur ing a 12-month period all fuel oil and steam coal required in excess of specific commitments to buy coal f rom domestic sources and elsewhere in the European Coal and Steel Community. April 20. The importation of certain Netherlands securities f rom Indonesia was permitted upon app l ica t ion. June 18. The b i la teral payments agreement with the United A rab Repub l ic was fo rma l ly te rm ina ted; Egyptian pound ba lances held by residents on Nonresident B Accounts in the U.A.R. could be liquidated by payments to the U.A.R. for goods and services. July 7. Many textiles f r om all sources except the Belgian- Luxembourg Economic Union required an import l icense; if import prices were not considered out of line, licenses as a ru le would be issued automatically. December 10. All imports f rom and exports to Rhodesia required an individual license; no licenses would be issued for imports of tobacco or for exports of arms, ammun i t ion, and petroleum products. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Antilles Guilders 1.88585 = US$1. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at Ant. f. 1.87 buying, and Ant. f. 1.89 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of Ant. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, making the effec t ive selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.905 per US$1. The selling rates for other currencies (ma in ly Netherlands guilders and pounds sterling) are set from time to time on the basis of the rates for the U.S. dollar in the Ne ther lands and the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange for prac t ica l ly all current transactions. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands An t i l les guilders. For statistical purposes, all payments made by the authorized banks in fo re ign exchange must be reported to the exchange control. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required only for imports of certain luxu ry goods. These licenses must be obtained f rom the Foreign Exchange Control Board and are, as a ru le, va l id for three months, a l though in some cases they may be extended for a fu r th er three months. Payments for permitted imports may be made free ly. Payments for Invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current payments on account of services and short-term bank ing and credit fac i l i t ies, and remittances for f am i ly maintenance, med ical care, education, etc., may be made freely through the au thor ized banks. For payments representing interest on loans or net income f rom other investments, and for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. Nonresidents may take with them on departure foreign currency wh ich they brought in on arrival. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 100 a person, or Ant. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an au thor ized bank, with the exception of export proceeds received by indus t r ial companies with nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may b r ing w i th them checks or letters of credit in Netherlands Antilles currency, and checks, letters of credit, or notes in foreign currency, in unlimited amounts. Each traveler may also bring in Ant. f. 100 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes, or Ant. f. 200 when arriving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, wh ich is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interests of the islands. New indus tr ial companies relying primarily on exports may be granted nonresident status. Such status confers on the company concerned f u ll exemption f rom exchange control except in its t ransac t ions w i th residents of the Ne ther lands Antilles. L ife insurance contracts between residents and foreign insurance companies for a m in imum term of ten years are licensed f ree ly up to an amount which is fixed annua l ly, depend ing on the fore ign exchange position (in 1965, such contracts were permitted up to US$25,000 a pe r son ). Investment by residents in real estate situated abroad or in foreign securities (i.e., securities issued outside the Kingdom of the Nether- lands or payable or optionally payable in a currency of a country outside the Kingdom of the Ne ther lands) requires a license. Invest- ments by ind iv idual residents in o f f ic ia l ly quoted foreign securities (other than shares in mu tu al f u n d s) are licensed f ree ly up to amounts fixed annually, depending on the fore ign exchange position (in 1965, these investments were permitted up to US$3,000 a pe rson ). In con- sidering applications by other residents f o r. such investments, the Foreign Exchange Control Board takes into account the merits of each case and, in pa r t icu la r, the limited opportunity for domestic investment. Changes during 1965 April 8. Licenses were no longer issued for purchases by residents of shares in fo re ign mu tual funds. 402 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par value is New Zealand Pound 1 = US$2.7809. Off ic ial rates are fixed for transactions in sterling (telegraphic t r a n s f e r s ): £NZ 100/7/6 buying, and £NZ 101/-/- selling, per £ stg. 100. Except for the Australian pound, the rates for spot transactions in other cur- rencies quoted by the New Zealand trad ing (commerc ia l) banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1965 was US$2.7892 buying, and US$2.7765 selling, per £NZ 1. The trading banks are also permitted to conclude with their cus- tomers forward exchange transactions for up to six months to cover genuine trade transactions. These forward transactions are at freely determined rates, except that rates for fo rwa rd sterling are the relative spot rates adjusted by %0 of 1 per cent a mon th for the period of the contract. Cover for longer periods may be arranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand under powers delegated to its Governor by the Minister of Finance. The Reserve Bank in turn has given discretionary authority to the trad ing banks in New Zea land to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those in force in other parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and f rom other parts of the Sterling Area may generally be made in any Sterling Area currency except New Zealand pounds; however, the proceeds of exports to the Sterling Area may be received in sterling, in any other currency (except New Zealand currency) that is free ly exchangeable for sterling, or in New Zealand currency f rom an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country other than New Zealand, except Rhodesia. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom or in any non-Sterling Area currency, and the proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in a currency of any country outside the 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Sterling Area which is freely exchangeable for sterling in an External Account, or in New Zealand currency f rom an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia. The accounts in New Zealand pounds of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The New Zealand exchange control regulations do not provide for special treatment for the accounts of residents of other countries. However, the accounts in New Zealand pounds of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries. Banks in other parts of the Sterling Area generally do not maintain accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and f rom New Zealand are made through the London offices of banks in New Zealand. Imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an Annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into d ifferent categories to which various import procedures are applied. About one third of all imports is exempt from licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1965-June 30, 1966, as revised, are as follows: Category "E" (exempt) includes petroleum, lubricating oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, jute, many textiles, certain equipment, and printed books which may be imported without license. Category "A" goods are initially licensed up to 75 per cent of the 1964-65 import licenses, with provision for fur ther licenses against actual needs, up to 133% per cent of the 1964-65 import licensing levels. A "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to licenses issued or actual imports in a previous licensing period. Category "C" licenses are granted on an ind iv idual basis on such criteria as essentiality, availa- bility, and price. Category "D" includes items for which licenses are issued only in exceptional circumstances. In addition, licenses for small or "token" amounts are issued for certain approved classes of goods, imports of which are generally not permitted under the Schedule. All licenses issued may be used for imports f rom any source at the applicant's discretion. Under a special arrangement in force since 1951, private individuals holding certain overseas funds or securities are permitted to import goods for their own personal use under "no-remittance import licenses." Motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement. Under an extension of this arrangement, 80 per cent of specified overseas funds or securities owned by private individuals and business concerns may, 404 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND on application, be used to f inance commercial imports of motorcars and other items on the Import Licensing Schedule, subject to the condition that the remaining 20 per cent of the applicant's funds that qua l ify under the scheme be repatriated through the banking system. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of ju s t i fy ing documents. Payments beyond the established limits, and for categories not included in the commercial banks7 permitted list, requ ire . the specific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by ju s t i fy ing documents. For nonbusiness travel to any part of the world, there are travel allowances of up to £NZ 600 for each adult in any period of 12 months (the allowance being calculated on the basis of £NZ 6 a day for each day spent on land) and of up to £NZ 420 for each child under 12 years of age (the daily allowance being £NZ 4/4/-). An additional amount of up to £NZ 400 (£NZ 280 for children) in fore ign exchange is granted to persons who have not traveled abroad in the preceding five years. Larger amounts of exchange for business and other similar travel are authorized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank. The remittance abroad of dividends, interest, and profits due to nonresidents is normally approved, subject to fo rmal authentication. This also applies to most contractual obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business, but each remittance requires approval and new commitments such as royalty agreements with overseas licensors require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of maintenance and/or gifts are made on a yearly basis without discrimination. Remittances by recognized New Zealand religious and charitable organizations or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any limitation. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to £NZ 50 a remitter. Travelers to the United Kingdom may take with them up to £NZ 15 in New Zealand currency, of which £NZ 5 may be in coins; for travelers to any other country, the limit is £NZ 7, of which £NZ 2 may be in coins. Banknotes taken out may not be in denominations larger t h a n £N Z l. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export proceeds will be surrendered to a trad ing bank in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). General export licenses valid un t il December 31, 1972 are issued to regular exporters. Under an export bonus scheme, manu fac tu re rs submitting evidence of exportation may receive an additional import license to the same value as the imported raw ma ter ial or components incorporated in the exported goods, subject to certain conditions being me t; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the m anu f a c tu re of goods for the home market Or for export. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zea land for overseas residents by New Zea land residents ( inc lud- ing corporate bodies ord inar i ly resident in New Zea land) is paid in the fo rm of fo re ign assets,1 such assets of their fo re ign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zea land bank ing system; interest and dividends earned overseas are excluded f rom this surrender require- ment. If the remuneration is in a fo rm other than fo re ign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into fore ign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal by New Zea land residents of foreign income f rom other invisibles is f ree of control except for non-sterling currencies and securities wh ich, unless t rans fe r red to New Zealand through the banking system, may not be disposed of without the approval of the Reserve Bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amounts of foreign banknotes and coins and local currency. Foreign banks are permitted to remit for exchange, within certain limits, New Zealand banknotes and coins purchased by them f rom New Zea land travelers. 1The kinds of remuneration that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the crediting of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acquisition or provision of any securities, or any real or personal property, or of any right thereto or interest therein (whe ther actual or con t ingen t); and (4) any bene f i t, whe ther by way of doing work or the performance of services, or otherwise, under any contract, agreement, arrange- ment, scheme, or transaction of any kind (whe ther or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 406 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Capital With the exception of certain capital issues outside New Zealand and certain overseas borrowings by corporate bodies, there is no restriction on capital receipts. However, to be eligible for repatriation, capital must have been in i t ia l ly t ran s fe r red to New Zea land through normal banking channe ls or in some other way approved by the authorities, e.g., as imports of p lant or mach inery. Capital so transferred, including capital gains and cap i ta l ized profits, may be repatriated, a f ter the formal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Capital issues outside New Zea land by companies incorporated in New Zea land require the approval of the Minister of Finance if they exceed £NZ 10,000 in any 12-month pe r iod; overseas borrowing by such companies also requires prior approval. Nonresident persons or com- panies desiring to make a direct investment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to register any offer made for such shares whenever the investment would result in the control by the offeror of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's capital. Within two weeks of registration the Minister of Finance must no t i fy the o f fe ror as to whether or not the offer is to be considered fu r the r. If fu r th er consideration is to be given, the Minister must give a final decision w i th in six weeks of the date of registration. Remittances on account of legacies up to £NZ 750 f rom the estate of a New Zealand resident in any 12-month period are approved by the trading banks. Remittances of legacies for larger amounts and all other outward capital remittances require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Transactions in non-sterling securities owned by New Zealand residents require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Changes during 1965 March 30. The Import Licensing Schedule for the 1965-66 licensing period was announced. About 90 items of foods tu f fs, raw materials, textiles, and equipment previously in the "A" category were exempted from licensing requirements; these inc lude bananas, green coffee, cocoa beans, ju te fibers, cotton ya rn, many textile piece goods, lead, and copper. Heavy duty trucks, which previously had a "C" allocation, and agricultural tractors and combines previously hav ing basic alloca- tions were also exempted. The maximum level of licensing for items in the "A" category was increased f rom 100 per cent to 133% per cent of the licensing levels of the previous period. A new scheme for the aggregation of licenses was introduced; a license holder who previously 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND held entitlements in one or more of certain specified items would automatically have his license extended to cover all the items specified within the group. Increased provision was made for new importers. May 31. The granting of sterling forward exchange to cover the exchange rate on contracts placed with wool futures markets no longer was limited to transactions in the London market. June 10. The qua l i fy ing period for certain approved funds available for use in accordance with the commercial and private "no remittance" schemes was advanced from December 31, 1958 to December 31, 1964. July 1. An export bonus scheme was introduced. July 1. A i rc ra ft suited solely for use in agriculture could be imported without a license. August 31. A Free Trade Area Agreement with Australia, to become effective on January 1, 1966, was signed, and related exchanges of letters with Australia took place. September 16. The Capital Issues (Overseas) Regulations 1965 were issued. These provided more precise definitions for borrowing and issuing capital. They also established that, except for local authorities, borrowing or raising money outside New Zealand by corporate bodies would in all cases require the consent of the Minister of Finance. Capital issues overseas by companies incorporated in New Zealand remained exempt f rom control if these issues did not exceed £NZ 10,000 in any period of 12 months. September 16. The Finance Emergency Regulations 1940 (No. 2) and the Exchange Control (Overseas Remuneration) Regulations 1964 were revoked and superseded by the Exchange Control Regulations 1965, the Exchange Control Exemption Notice 1965, and the Capital Issues (Overseas) Regulations 1965. With the exception of the last-named, the new regulations did not involve substantive changes in exchange control. November 25. Imports of Rhodesian tobacco were prohibited. Most payments to Rhodesia were prohibited. The only remittances that would be approved were those in respect of permitted trade trans- actions, personal g if ts up to an aggregate of £NZ 50 since November 11, 1965, and pensions due to New Zealand pensioners resident in Rhodesia. 408 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is Nicaraguan Cordobas 7.00 = US$1. All exchange transactions take place at the off ic ial rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. The sale of foreign exchange is subject to a stamp tax of % of 1 per cen t; in addition, authorized banks charge a commission of % of 1 per cent on the selling rate. No tax or commission is charged on the buying rate. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from July 20, 1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank of Nic- aragua, which by law has the sole authority to buy and sell foreign exchange. This authority has been delegated to the commercial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for c lass ify ing imports and deter- mining the advance deposits required. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in international markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicara- guan cordobas through the Camara de Compensation Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan cordobas through the clearinghouse. imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own industrial needs. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declarations; when payment is not being made in advance or on sight of documents, 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA an application for registration of the order must be submitted to the Central Bank. Imports of certain types of foo twear are prohibited, except footwear manu fac tu red in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integration. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight d ra f t, prepayment, or letter of credit. The Central Bank may also authorize deferred payment or payment with funds derived f rom properly authenticated credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods intended for development or production or for basic works complementary to production. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not subject to license and may be made freely. Persons purchasing foreign currency to make payments for invisibles are required, for statistical purposes, to complete a declara- tion specifying the purpose for which the foreign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, but a declaration to the customs authorities must be completed for statistical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be surrendered; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for which must be purchased f rom a bank, with the exception noted in footnote 1). For certain agricultural exports (live cattle, beans, rice, corn, and cottonseed), the Ministry of Economy can fix minimum export prices or can temporarily prohibit their export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived from invisibles is not required. Domestic and foreign currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Remittances on account of foreign capital and capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be made freely under the general 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effec t ive March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds of bananas, coconuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of El Cabo and the department of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for commodities not produced in Nicaragua which they themselves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 410 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA provisions of the Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effec t ive Ma rch 11, 1955). Under the 1955 law, fore ign investments approved by the Central Bank and registered are guaranteed the fo l low ing privileges: repatriation of the registered cap i ta l; t ran s fer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and re-exportation of goods imported for investment. Changes during 1965 March 16. The 60 per cent advance deposit requirement, applicable to nonessentials only, was abolished. All imports on List III (non- essentials) were transferred to List II and became subject to the advance deposit requirement of 40 per cent. Certain raw materials formerly on List II were transferred to List I and became exempt from advance deposit requirements. September 16. The Government was authorized to impose restrictions on the importation of pharmaceu t ical and veterinary products. October 1. The remaining advance deposit requirements were abolished. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Niger has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting from the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c, plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance (For- eign Finance D iv is ion). Foreign exchange transactions are handled by the commercial banks under the direction of the Foreign Finance Division. Import licenses for nonliberalized goods are issued by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i r s, Commerce, and Industry, with the consent of the Foreign Finance Division; import certificates for liberalized goods are made out by the importer himself and approved by the Foreign Finance Division. Prescription of Currency Niger is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries of the French Franc Area except Mali are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Mali are made through accounts in CFA f rancs maintained with each other by the Bank of the Republic of Mali and the BCEAO at Niamey. Settlements with the United Arab Republic, except those for Suez Canal dues, are made through a special account in sterling maintained by the Development Bank of the Republic of Niger at the Central Bank of Egypt. Settle- ments with all other countries are usually made through banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. 1The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de PAfrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 412 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than wheat flour, matches, and plastic goods may be made free ly. Imports of many goods f rom EEC countries and fo rmer OEEC coun- tries and imports of a smaller number of items f rom the United States and Canada are liberalized. Other imports f rom countries outside the French Franc Area are permitted as fo l lows. Noriliberalized imports f rom EEC countries other than France are permitted up to annual quotas which are being increased in accordance with the Convention of Association with the EEC. Imports of non l ibera l ized goods f rom other countries outside the French Franc Area are made in accordance with an annual program that is determined each year by the Ministry of Economic A f fa i r s, Commerce, and Indus t ry; the program generally reflects the requirements indicated by importers, but it contains ceilings for printed textiles, passenger cars, and petroleum products. Both the over-all amount of the program and the ceilings are established in mutual agreement within a jo int French-Niger Committee. In either case, the quotas opened fix the limits up to wh ich import licenses may be issued. Goods not subject to quantitative restriction may be imported on an import certificate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer and approved by the Foreign Finance Division. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Under the EFAC arrangements (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), licenses for the import of goods to be used directly by exporters may be issued, provided that such imports are paid for with funds from EFAC accounts. In addition to import duties, most imports are subject to an import tax (taxe forfaitaire); in most cases the tax is 25 per cent, but for certain imports it has been reduced to 10 per cent. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f r e e ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Foreign Finance Division. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Payments for many other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. Residents traveling to countries outside the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 175,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange remaining a f ter return to Niger must be surrendered. The t rans fer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Niger is permitted upon 'presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Residents may, upon presentation of appropriate documents, send to relatives abroad an amount of CFAF 37,500 a month as fam i ly assistance or gifts. Payments for study abroad may also be authorized upon presentation of appropriate documents. Representation, advertis- ing expenses, and business travel may be f inanced with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Travelers to other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the French Franc Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the French Franc- Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 750 in French francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP f rancs, or the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f ranc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and certain imported commodities, all of wh ich require a license, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Exports to all other countries of most domestic products and all imported commodities require a license. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within one month f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain part of their foreign currency proceeds in special, nontransferable EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which may be used by the exporters for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own businesses, for representa- 414 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER tion and advertising expenses, or for business trips abroad; this proportion is fixed at 12 per cent for exports to the United States and Canada and 8 per cent for exports to other countries outside the French Franc Area (15 per cent and 11 per cent, respectively, if the export is effected by a professional t r ad e r ). Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 earned in those countries f rom foreign securities, must be collected and must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers f rom other countries of the West A f r i c an Mone- tary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta) may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers f rom other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of fore ign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean and Malian currency is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Niger and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of con tro l; cap i tal t rans fe rs to all other countries require approval, but capital receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. The Investment Code of July 12, 1961 provides for preferen t ial status that may be granted to new enterprises in industry, agr icu l ture, real estate, and, in some cases, commerce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to na t ional development. Three p re fe ren t ial regimes are established: A, B, and C. The most l iberal benefits are offered by Regime C, wh ich is app l icab le to enterprises or industries of particular importance for the implementation of Niger's economic and social development p lan. This regime is cha rac te r ized by the signing of a f o u n d i ng agreement (convention d'etablissement) stipulat- ing the mutual rights and obligations of the State and the enterprise. This agreement, with a va l id i ty of 10 or 20 years, provides guarantees of stability with respect to legal, economic, financial, and tax matters. Regimes A and B grant many of the same benefits but for a shorter period, with a max imum of 10 years. Repa tr ia t ion of p ro f i ts f rom, and proceeds f rom the liquidation of, fo re ign investments are sub ject to 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER the exchange regulations of the French Franc Area. Firms covered by the Investment Code must undertake not to repatriate within a period of 3 years the foreign capital invested in them. Changes during 1965 February 17. A. number of imports f rom EEC countries other than France were freed f rom quantitative restriction. March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Rumania, which was also applicable to Niger, was terminated. October 1. The import tax (taxe forfaitaire) on certain consumer goods was reduced f rom 25 per cent to 10 per cent. The proportion of their foreign currency proceeds that exporters could retain in EFAC accounts was raised. 416 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Nigerian Pound 1 = US$2.80. The Central Bank of Nigeria quotes rates at wh ich it is prepared to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars with authorized dealers and the pub l ic; such dealings are for approved transactions of not less than the equ iva lent of £ stg. 10,000 and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for sterling are determined by the Bank f r om t ime to time and on Decem- ber 31,1965 were £100 2s.6d. buy ing, and £99 lOs.Od. selling, per £N 100. The rates for the U.S. do l lar are determined on the basis of the m idd le market rate for the do l lar in London against sterling and the Cen tral Bank's p reva i l ing ra te for sterling against the N iger ian p o u n d: on December 31, 1965 the Bank's buy ing and selling rates for the do l lar were, respectively, US$2.80% and US$2.787/8 per £N 1. The Cen tral Bank is prepared to quote rates to au tho r ized dealers and its customers for specific transactions on a spot basis only for the currency of any other Sterling Area territory except South A f r i ca and South West A f r i ca or for any specified currency.1 For approved transac t ions authorized dealers may deal at market rates, spot or fo rw a rd, between themselves, w i th au thor ized banks in the Sterling Area, and with customers. Au tho r ized dealers may enter freely into contracts with residents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any fore ign currency except Rhodes ian pounds for delivery at a f u t u re date, provided that the transac t ion is one that would be accept- able on a spot basis (see above) and tha t, when a currency other than a Sterling Area currency is invo lved, the transac t ion relates to a firm commercial con tract for the import or export of goods or to f re ight charges on a spec if ic sh ipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a fo re ign cu r rency. Forward con trac ts related to imports f rom countries outside the S ter l ing Area must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or no license is required. Forward contracts related to all exports to countries outside the Sterling Area or to exports of hyd roca rbon oils to countries in the Sterling Area may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received w i th in six mon ths of shipment, or such longer period as may have been au tho r ized. l rThe specified currencies are Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian l ire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Administration of Control The Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy arid for approving applications for the fo l low ing: the repatriation of capital and t ran s fer of profits to any country outside N iger ia; the raising of external loans, inc lud ing repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies controlled directly or indi- rectly from outside N ige r ia; the g ran t ing of "approved status" to nonresident investments in N ige r ia; and any dealings in fore ign securi- ties. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the pr inc ipal administrator of the exchange control. Most commercial banks and acceptance houses are authorized by the Ministry of Finance to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any app l ica t ion wh ich does not f a ll within the scope of the au tho r i ty of these au thor ized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the Ministry of Finance. The adm in is tra t ion of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade. Prescription of Currency Nigeria is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Nigeria and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made f ree ly in s ter l ing or any other Sterling Area currency (except for the limited number of transac t ions for wh ich exchange con trol approval is r e q u i r e d ). Au tho r ized paymen ts to countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodes ia may be made in sterling to the credit of an Ex te rnal Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency. The proceeds of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodes ia may be received in sterling or Nigerian pounds f rom an Ex te rnal Accoun t, or in the cu r rency of any country outside the Sterling Area wh ich is f ree ly exchangeab le for Nigerian pounds or sterling. However, payment for exports of rubber to any destination must be received in N ige r ian pounds f rom an account with an author- ized dealer in Nigeria. Special regu la t ions apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds of persons resident outside Nigeria are divided into three categories: Scheduled Territories Accounts, ma in ta ined for persons pe rmanen t ly resident in a country within the Sterling Area, Rhodesia Accoun ts, ma in ta ined for residents of Rhodesia, and Ex ternal Accoun ts, ma in ta ined for residents of all other countries. 418 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Scheduled Territories Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of N iger ia, with transfers from other Scheduled Territories Accounts and f rom Ex ternal Accounts, and with proceeds f rom sales of all currencies except Nigerian pounds or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for t rans fe rs to other Scheduled Territories Accounts, and for purchases of sterling or other Sterling Area currencies for approved purposes. Rhodesia Accounts may be credited with payments to Rhodesia for obligations incurred prior to November 11, 1965; all other transactions through the accounts are sub ject to the approval of the Central Bank. All permitted payments to Rhodesia must be made by crediting Rho- desia Accounts. All debits to Rhodesia Accounts require prior approval by the Central Bank. External Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with proceeds f rom sales of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of Nigeria, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts and to Scheduled Territories Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered. Most commodities may be imported under open general license. However, the import of about 20 commod- ities is prohibited for health, safe ty, moral, or religious reasons, and the import of about 20 other commodities or groups of commodities is also prohibited unless specific conditions have been complied w i th; these conditions are specified in the licenses authorizing such imports. Ind iv idual specific import licenses are required for the fo l low ing: (1) All imports f rom A lban ia, Ma in land China, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, North Korea, Macao, Rhodesia, Rumania, South A f r ica, South West A f r i c a, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam. (2) All imports of petroleum and petroleum products, gold, gold chloride, and other gold products, cement, tin ore and by-products of tin, cotton blankets, enamelware, meat and meat preparations, butter, and products the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). (3) Imports of wheat and sugar from countries not pa r t ic ipa t ing in the In terna t ional Wheat and Sugar Agreements. (4) Imports f rom the dollar area of coal, coke, 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA and secondhand clothing. (5) Imports f rom the Netherlands of onions not grown in a specified region. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for all authorized imports. Payment in advance of shipment, however, requires the approval of the Central Bank; approval is not norma l ly given for payments in excess of £N 500. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely, provided that the under ly ing transaction does not involve any interest outside the Sterling Area, except that payments to any destination related to profits must be referred to the Ministry of Finance, and those related to participation in foo tba ll pools or other betting arrangements, or wh ich take the fo rm of compensation deals, require approval f rom the Central Bank.2 Payments for invisibles to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to ind iv idual approval, but, except for payments to Rhodesia, this is granted free ly by the authorized dealers for many categories of invisibles. Applications for payments that are not approved by the authorized dealers are forwarded to the Central Bank, wh ich gives approval free ly for most types of payment, provided that tax and other requirements have been satisfied. However, as mentioned above, certain applications require approval f rom the Ministry of Finance. Residents going to any country in the Sterling Area may buy unlimited amounts of fore ign exchange for travel purposes. For travel outside the Sterling Area, except to Rhodesia, £250 a year in foreign exchange may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In addition, travel agents and shipping and a ir l ine companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets and vouchers for certain services (e.g., hotel accommodations, meals en route) for anywhere in the world, except Rhodesia, against payment in Nigerian currency. Persons going abroad are permitted to take with them £50 in sterling or Nigerian banknotes. Residents are permitted to take out the equiva- lent of their basic allowance of £250 for travel outside the Sterling Area in foreign currency notes; nonresident visitors may take out foreign currency notes and Nigerian banknotes up to the amounts they brought into Nigeria. 2 Payments for football pools and betting arrangements are prohibited. in practice 420 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exports and Export Proceeds Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any country except Rhodesia, South A f r ica, and South West A f r ica (exports to these three countries require individual licenses). Individual export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tantalite, unrefined gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products covered by the Central Marketing Board Ordinance (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, ground- nuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm kernels). The export of certain goods (A f r i c an antiquities or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in A f r ican ceremonies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than industrial explosives, is prohibited. Export proceeds obtained in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Nigeria or in the United Kingdom within six months f rom the day of shipment. For goods valued at more than £1,000 f.o.b. and destined for a country outside the Sterling Area, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment; the same require- ment applies to exports of hydrocarbon oils to the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Persons entering Nigeria may bring in free ly foreign and domestic banknotes. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission from the Ministry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow in any country out- side Nigeria. Official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any foreign borrow- ing. Nonresidents intending to make direct investments in Nigeria are invited to apply to the Ministry of Finance for "approved status," the granting of which means that sympathetic consideration will be given to fu tu re requests to repatriate the capital. The granting of "approved status" is not applicable to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless this fo rms an integral part of the approved investment pro jec t. The repatriation of foreign capital requires approval f rom the Ministry of Finance. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria (1) by any nonresident ind iv idual or company, (2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a bank) wh ich is controlled directly or indirectly f rom outside Nigeria, or (3) by any branch in Nigeria of a nonresident company (other than a b a n k ). However, to enable entities mentioned under (2) and (3) to meet temporary shortages of fund s, licensed banks in Nigeria may grant loans or ove rd ra f ts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or o v e r d r a ft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payab le thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank ove rd ra f t, or other credit fac i l i ty to be arranged to f inance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in fore ign currency securities nor may they buy f rom or sell to nonresidents of the Sterling Area any security payable in N iger ian pounds w i thout the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Residents of Nigeria are not obliged to deposit their fore ign securities with banks in Nigeria. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonresidents may be collected and negotiated through authorized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the Ministry of Finance is obtained. Changes during 1965 January 2. Imports of cer ta in textiles f rom Hong Kong no longer required a spec if ic import license. April 30. Imports f rom Yugoslavia no longer required a specific license. August 13. Payment for imports in advance of shipment was dis- allowed except with the permission of the Central Bank. Permission would not be given for amounts in excess of £N 500. August 14- All importers were required to be registered. August 19. All imports f rom Hong Kong, Japan, and Macao required a specific license; licenses would be issued restrictively. August 19. Import duties on many commodities were increased. November. All trade with Rhodesia was suspended, except for commitments entered into be fo re November 11,1965. November 22. All payments to Rhodesia by or on beha lf of Nigerian residents were prohibited except those made in respect of obligations entered into prior to November 11, 1965. All bank accounts in Nigeria held for residents of Rhodesia were redesignated Rhodesia Accounts. 422 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Permitted paymen ts to Rhodesia could be made only in Nigerian pounds to Rhodesia A c coun t s; a ll transac t ions th rough these accounts not resu l t ing f r om comm i tmen ts entered in to pr ior to November 11, 1965 requ ired the approval of the Cen tral Bank. December 10. The Borrow ing by Pub l ic Bodies Bill, 1965 was pub- lished. O f f ic ial agencies and s ta te-con tro l led corporations required the prior approval of the Minister of Finance for any borrowing. 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exchange Rate System The par value is Norwegian Kroner 7.14286 = US$1. The off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar are NKr 7.09 buying, and NKr 7.20 selling, per US$1—rates at which the exchange authorities will buy or sell; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for most Western European currencies vary between limits wh ich result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Norway and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward premiums and discounts are le ft to the interplay of market forces. Forward trans- actions with residents must have a commercial basis. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The authority to approve most current payments has been delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and, in certain cases, by the Ministry of Agr icu l ture or the Ministry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of precious metals, and of semimanu- factured articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral area1 and the convertible area (all other countries). Settlements with a country in the bilateral area must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement. Settlements with countries in the convertible area may be made in any convertible currency, inc lud ing Norwegian kroner on Convertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Nonresident Accounts The main type of nonresident account is the Convertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of countries in the convertible area (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with authorized payments to countries in the convertible area, with transfers f rom other Convertible Krone Accounts, and with proceeds f rom the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments from the convertible area to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Convertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. 1 Czechoslovakia and Eastern Germany. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Nonresident-owned capital that may not be transferred abroad is deposited in Capital Accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder for expenses in Norway, such as personal taxes, insurance premiums, and traveling expenses, as well as for direct investments, upon approval, and for investments in bonds that are issued in Norwegian kroner only. Bonds acquired in this way may either be deposited with a Norwegian authorized bank or be sent to the owner abroad. Capital wh ich, according to the general rules or specific permission, is t rans fe rab le abroad may be credited to a Convertible Krone Account. Imports and Import Payments Practically all goods may be imported freely f rom the import free list area2 upon presentation of the original invoice. Import licenses are requ ired'on ly for the few items on the list of nonliberalized commodi- ties,3 which applies to all countries, and for goods on two special lists —one applicable to imports f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R., and the other applicable to imports f rom Japan and the Republic of Korea, many of which are licensed automatically. A global quota list contains 14 quotas for items, mainly agricultural products, for wh ich imports are permitted up to fixed limits; most of these quotas apply to all countries. Specialized and secondhand ships are licensed free ly, provided that certain regulations (requ ir ing in principle that such purchases be fu l ly financed by foreign loans with maturities of at least five years f rom the date of delivery) are complied with. A small number of imports are prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alcoholic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to countries in the convertible area for most invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortization, may be 2 The import free list area comprises all countries except Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, Macao, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 3 Licenses are also required for imports of liberalized ships (i.e., dry cargo ships) built abroad, in order to supervise compliance w i th certain regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY made free ly. Payments for invisibles to a country in the bilateral area must be made in the manner prescribed in the relevant payments agreement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invisibles. Payments for any purpose to any country in the convertible area do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 500. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip a person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresidents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any fore ign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported free ly to countries in the export f ree list area,4 against a declaration or a license, which is granted auto- matically. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export f ree list area require an export license. Exports to any country valued at not more than NKr 500 are exempt f rom export license. Payments must be received within 12 months of shipment and in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above ). All exchange f rom exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may bring in Norwegian banknotes and coins up to NKr 1,000, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100, and other means of payment without limit. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by non- residents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward t rans fe rs of capital require ind iv idual licenses; the granting of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward t rans fe rs of proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted f ree ly, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automatically. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted f ree ly. Norwegian securities purchased by nonresidents *The export free list area comprises all countries except A lban ia, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia. U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 426 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY from Norwegian residents by special permission may be resold to Norwegian residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds f rom the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as t ran s fe rs relating to fam i ly loans, gifts, inheritances, legacies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresident workers, and amounts in settlement of immigrants' debts, may be made freely to any member country of the International Monetary Fund. Most transactions in securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securi- ties, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be surren- dered. Applications for capital t rans fe rs to make direct investments abroad are considered on their ind iv idual merits, and por tfo l io invest- ment abroad is approved only exceptionally. Residents other than banks require the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before raising loans or incu r r ing guarantee obligations abroad. In accordance with an agreement between the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Norway, and the private credit institutions, banks are to endeavor to maintain their fore ign exchange holdings at a level not lower than on December 31, 1962. Within the ce i l ing stipulated for commercial bank lending in fo re ign currencies, the banks may borrow abroad without the prior approval of the Bank of Norway, provided that the terms of such borrowing are not shorter than those of the related foreign currency loans extended by the commercial banks in Norway. Changes during 1965 January 1. The basic allowance for tourist travel abroad was increased f rom NKr 3,500 a year to NKr 5,000 a trip. January 1. Wood tar, wood tar oil, and wood creosote were freed f rom licensing when imported f rom countries in the free list area or countries to wh ich the two special lists apply. It was announced that sugar would be placed on the free list in the course of 1965. January 29. The bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. was terminated. July 1. The global quotas for the period July 1, 1965-June 30, 1966 became effective. October 1. Some additional goods were deleted from the restricted list applicable to imports from Japan. The list was applied also to the Republic of Korea. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY November 1. The importation of sugar from all sources was liberal- ized. November 27. All exports to and imports from Rhodesia required a specific license. December 29. Guidelines were issued for the banks' foreign borrowing and lending operations in 1966. These included the following: (1) Banks should endeavor to reduce their foreign exchange commitments and to consolidate those of a short-term character. (2) Provided that banks complied with the foregoing, they could, without the prior approval of the Bank of Norway, borrow foreign currency abroad to lend its equivalent at home. (3) Banks' endorsement liabilities in connection with the financing of exports and imports and their guarantees toward foreign nationals for liabilities abroad of persons domiciled in Norway would be counted as part of the banks' foreign loans and credits. 428 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Pakistan Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose transactions with the general pub l ic must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established with the International Monetary Fund. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their require- ments of specified currencies. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees, either spot or fo rwa rd for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. Other effective rates arise f rom the negotiation of bonus vouchers which certain exporters and a few other earners or remitters of exchange may sell at free ly determined rates to importers who need them in order to obtain import licenses for various commodi- ties or to obtain exchange for certain invisibles. On December 30, 1965, these bonus vouchers were quoted at rates around PRs 146.75 per PRs 100 of nominal value. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 30 commercial banks authority to deal in all fo re ign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Applications for import licenses are submitted through these commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Pakistan is a member of the Sterling Area, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and nontrade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling Area countries. Payments between Pakistan and India or Rhodesia are suspended. Exchange receipts must be obtained through an authorized dealer. Receipts f rom countries in the Sterling Area must be received in sterling f rom the account of a resident of the Sterling Area (other than a resident of Pakistan) or in Pakistan rupees f rom the account of a bank in the Sterling Area.1 Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Pakistan rupees f rom the account of a bank outside the Sterling Area, or in any specified currency. 1 However, a part of Pakistan's trade with India is to be settled through a clearing account in inconvertible Indian rupees under the terms of an agreement with that country. The clearing account is at present inoperative. 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Payments abroad must be made through an authorized dealer. Pay- ments by residents of Pakistan to countries in the Sterling Area are made by t rans fe r r ing sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to an appropriate account (see also foot- note 1). Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by transferr ing sterling or Pakistan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. For imports, payment is normally made to the country of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over transactions with Afghan is tan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or a fghan is. Trade trans- actions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Hungary, Indonesia, Nepal, Poland, and Yugoslavia is settled through clearing accounts maintained in inconvertible Pakistan rupees; trade with Czechoslovakia in specified commodities is settled through a clearing account in Czechoslovak korunas. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers f rom nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other non- resident account holders must obtain permission f rom the exchange control for transfers f rom their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India held prior to the imposition of exchange c o n t r o l , on trans- actions with India are governed by separate regulations. Other accounts of residents of India, except those of the Indian High Com- mission and its personnel, are blocked. Imports and Import Payments Permitted imports are classified in four lists: a free list, an Open General License list, a licensable list, and an export bonus list. All imports require licenses, except goods on the f ree list and goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other purposes, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land route f rom Afghan is tan and Iran, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24, June 12, 1951). Import licenses for commodities on the licensable list are granted on a discretionary basis; those on the Open General License list or the export bonus list are issued in accordance with procedures 430 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN indicated below. A number of imports are prohibited or are not being licensed. An import license may be used in any country of the world other than India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r i c a, except for items for which specific country licenses are issued in accordance with trade, aid, or loan agreements with particular countries. Import licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis to established com- mercial importers and industrial consumers and for commodities specified in the annual import program. Applications for licenses are not required f rom established importers, and the quantities to be imported by them are determined by the authorities on an historical basis. However, various other import procedures exist for d ifferent industries and categories of commodities: (1) The "automatic" licens- ing procedure allows importers of specified commodities to apply for another license when an earlier license has been fu l ly utilized. (2) The Open General License procedure, applicable to specified commodities and groups of commercial importers (mostly small ones), provides for the issue of licenses for stated amounts. (3) The industrial licens- ing procedure allows specified industries (category A industries) to receive import licenses for their assessed production requirements of items not on the free list; fu r th er licenses may be obtained upon presentation of bills of entry corresponding to at least 50 per cent of the value of previous licenses. The rema in ing industries (category B industries) receive licenses on a specific basis determined by the competent authority. (4) Under the barter arrangements concluded with fore ign governments or with concerns abroad, licenses are issued for specified items. (5) Under the procedure of f ree imports against the country's own foreign exchange resources and against fore ign aid and loans, certain items are placed on a f ree list. Letters of credit must be opened for most f ree list impor ts; a 15 per cent margin deposit is required on letters of credit for imports on the free list. With minor exceptions, the opening of letters of credit for f ree list items not financed by foreign aid has been suspended; import applications for these items may be submitted to authorized banks, but these are not being considered un t il fu r ther notice. Under the Open General License procedure, exporters of specified commodities are eligible for special import licensing facilities related to export pe r fo rmance; under the industrial licensing procedure, almost all manu fac tu re rs who are also exporters are eligible for such special facilities. Import licenses are also issued under the Export Bonus Scheme. The holder of a bonus voucher (entitlement to import) must apply within 90 days (12 months for imports of heavy machinery and equ ipmen t) of the receipt of the voucher for the issue of an import license for 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN any of the items eligible under the Export Bonus Scheme. This license is issued without restriction and without the importer having to be registered. Import licenses issued against bonus vouchers are valid for 6 months from the day of their issue, except for imports of heavy machinery and equipment, for wh ich the period may be extended up to 24 months. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized dealer. The license holder may usually make payment by opening a letter of credit or by remitting a sight d r a f t; for some commodities, a letter of credit is prescribed. Remittances are not normally permitted before shipping documents are received, but in special cases, e.g., machinery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made with foreign manu fac tu re rs, the State Bank may authorize advance payments for a part of the value of the goods. Imports of all commodities, except machinery, are subject to a "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the existing rates of customs duty. Imports of certain commodities on the free list are subject to customs surcharges (''regulatory duties") of 5, 7%, or 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and require licenses. No remittances are permitted to be made to India or Rhodesia. Under authority delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regulations. Certain remittances of a personal nature are subject to annual quotas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Separate regulations govern payments to Burma for such purposes as fam i ly maintenance. Remittances by Pakistani nationals to their families abroad require special authorization. Payments for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same treatment as that accorded the under ly ing trade transaction. Transport insurance must, except with respect to certain aid ship- ments, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. The remittance of dividends declared out of current profits is allowed freely to foreign shareholders where the investment was made with the Government's approval. There is an annual allowance for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arabia. No exchange is being granted until fu r ther notice for tourism or other private travel. However, exchange for business travel, medical treat- ment, students' expenses, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted 432 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN on an ind iv idual basis. Exporters may use a limited percentage of their entitlements under the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and ma in ta in ing branch offices outside Pakistan. All Pakistani nationals may, once a year, receive up to £ stg. 300 for travel against the surrender of a corresponding amount of bonus vouchers. Nonresident travelers may take out fo re ign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Residents may take out PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes at any one time and, if leaving for A fghan i s tan, any amount of A fgh an cur- rency. Ind iv idual permission is required for the export of other currencies. Persons trave l ing on Category "A" visas (to Ind ia) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed f ree ly. However, export licenses are required for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items below m in imum export prices, and for m i l l -made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. Exports to Ind ia, Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter that, when payment in accord- ance with the prescribed method is received, he w i ll surrender the exchange within a certain period of time. A f t er mak ing certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds within four months. There is an Export Bonus Scheme applicable to exporters of all goods other than the fo l low ing ma jor items: raw ju t e; raw cotton; hides and skin, including lambskins but excluding fu rs and reptile skins; wool, including wool waste; rice, excluding superior varieties (namely, basmati, parmel, and begmi); and tea. A f ter surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency, exporters of other pri- mary products, by-products, sem imanu fac tu red goods, inc lud ing unfinished cotton piece goods, and manu fac tu red goods involving a simple manu fac tu r ing process are issued bonus vouchers of a value equivalent to 20 per cent or 30 per cent of the net exchange surrendered, while for exports of other goods the percentage is 30 or 40. Exporters must apply to the State Bank within 45 days of the retirement of bills of exchange relating to exports made under the scheme for the issuance of bonus vouchers. These vouchers are free ly t rans fe rab le and entitle 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities, which are generally not otherwise licensed for importation.2 Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of A f g h an currency, which may be retained, incoming fore ign exchange derived f rom invisibles must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate within one month. Pakistanis who are either employed or carry ing on business abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of all remittances of savings made by them to their relatives in Pak is tan; earners of foreign exchange from certain services ( a i r c r a ft repairs, salvage operations, and ship repairs) are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 20 per cent of the net foreign exchange earned by them; and earners of fore ign exchange f rom shipping are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equiva- lent to 30 per cent of their exchange earnings. All Pakistani nationals residing abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of the fo re ign exchange they remit for the purchase of Government of Pakistan 5 per cent Defense Bonds, 1970. The vouchers recorded in all cases are f ree ly t r an s f e r ab le and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities. Under the Bonus Scheme for Hotels, hotels are entitled to receive import licenses equivalent to 20 per cent of their earnings f rom fo re ign tourists for board and lodg- ing; these licenses are valid for a number of items required by the hotel industry. The fac i l i ty of the Bonus Scheme applies also to Indus Basin contracts; all suppliers are entitled to bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of the fore ign exchange earned f rom machinery items and 20 per cent f r om all other supplies. Persons trave l ing on Category "A" visas ( f r om Ind ia) may not bring in any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may bring in PRs 80 in Pakistan currency notes, sub ject to declaration to the customs, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in Ind ia. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage indus tr ial development in Pakistan, the Govern- 2 Half the vouchers earned by the j u te manufac tur ing industry may be used only for imports of mach inery and spare par ts for the ju te industry and other industries in East Pakistan. 434 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN ment follows a l iberal policy toward fore ign entrepreneurs, who can start any industry in the pr iva te sector without any conditions being laid down regard ing the pa r t ic ipa t ion of local capital. It is, however, expected that local rupee expend i tu re w i ll o rd ina r i ly be met f rom local equity capital. Repatriation fac i l i t ies are as fo l low s: (1) Foreign capital invested in approved industries established a f t er September 1, 1954 may be repatriated at any time th e r e a f t er to the extent of the original invest- ment, and current profits may be t rans fe r red w i thout restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. (2) Profits that are reinvested in approved indus tr ial p ro jec ts w i th the app roval of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. (3) Appreciation of any cap i tal investment under (1) and (2) may also be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repa tr ia t ion fac i l i t ies w i ll be sub ject to the exchange control regulations in fo rce at the time, and they w i ll not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment p ro jec t, or to cap i tal invested in Pakistan before September 1,1954. Guarantees provide for ju st and f a ir compensation in the currency of the country of origin of the cap i ta l, in the event of na t iona l iza t ion of any pro jec t. Foreign nationals in Pakistan or abroad may register their invest- ments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus fac i l i ta te repa tr ia t ion at any time of the pr inc ipal and pr ize winnings. Transfers of cap i tal abroad by residents are, in general, not per- mitted. However, detailed rules govern the t r an s f er of capital by persons emigrating or re t i r ing f r om Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which the t ran s fer is to be made. Foreign nationals, other than Indian nationals, are permitted to sell fo re ign securities upon approval by the State Bank, provided that the fo re ign exchange proceeds result- ing from such sales are surrendered, but there is no provision for purchases of fore ign securities by residents. In this connection, foreigners residing in Pakistan are considered nonresidents. Exports of, and transac t ions in, securities invo lv ing nonresident interests are subject to approval. Proceeds acc ru ing f rom the liquida- tion of nonresident capital assets may be credited to blocked accounts. Balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved securities payable in Pakistan rupees. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Changes during 1965 January 11. An agreement was concluded with Indonesia under which exports of certain quantities of specified Pakistani commodities would be made on the basis of deferred payment one year af ter the date of shipment f rom Pakistan. January 13. A. 25 per cent prior deposit requirement was introduced for letters of credit to be opened by private sector importers for imports of commodities on the f ree list or under ind iv idual license. January 28. All imports of South A f r i c an origin were prohibited. April 7. Most exchange permits for education abroad were reviewed. April 24- The 25 per cent prior deposit requirement against letters of credit was abolished for imports under individual license. May 14- In accordance with a trade agreement with Czechoslovakia, settlements in respect of specified imports and exports would be made through an account in Czechoslovak korunas opened by the State Bank of Pakistan with the Commercial Bank of Czechoslovakia. May 17. In accordance with a protocol to the trade agreement with Indonesia, settlements in respect of most trade transactions would be made through a Special Pakistan Rupee Account opened by the Bank Indonesia with the Na t ional Bank of Pakistan. June 1. In accordance with a trade agreement with Poland, settle- ments in respect of most trade transactions would be made through a special account in inconvertible Pakistan rupees opened by Bank Handlowy w Warszawie with the National Bank of Pakistan. July 1. The import program for the 12 months to June 30, 1966 took effec t. The f ree list and the Open General License list were continued without much change. Various commodities were added to those that could only be imported with bonus vouchers —these included coffee, spices, and passenger automobiles. September 6. All remittances for imports were suspended and no letters of credit could be opened. September 7. Imports f rom India and all remittances to India were prohibited. Payments due to India must be credited to blocked accounts. Nonresident accounts held by persons, firms, companies, or banks resident in Ind ia and resident accounts of Indian nationals, firms, companies, and banks resident in Pakistan were blocked. September 7. Payments against letters of credit opened before September 6, as well as payments for imports against bonus vouchers, were again permitted in accordance with existing regulations. 436 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN September 7. All transactions in foreign exchange with branches of Indian banks resident in Pakistan were prohibited. September 7. The travel exchange quota for India and Burma was abolished. September 8. Exchange for private travel and holiday travel was no longer granted. September 9. All exports to Ind ia were prohibited. September 10. Exports f rom Pakistan could no longer be carried in Indian vessels. September 17. The validity of bonus vouchers was extended from one month to 90 days for imports of goods other than heavy machinery and equipment. September 29. The Indian High Commission in Pakistan and its personnel could f ree ly utilize their resident accounts held with banks in Pakistan. October 2. The licensing of imports of certain less essential items was suspended and certain other modifications in import policy were made. Thirty-one items remained on the f ree list, 15 items on the licensable list, and 6 items on the Open General License list; 33 items were prohibited by exclusion f rom the Export Bonus Scheme. October 2. Opening of letters of credit for certain imports by the private sector was again permitted. This permission was expanded during October. October 2. The 25 per cent prior deposit requirement for import letters of credit was reduced to 15 per cent for items on the free list. November 22. A "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the existing rates of customs duty was levied on imports of all commodities except machinery. November 22. An extra export bonus of 10 per cent was given for the export of cotton textiles for the remainder of the financial year, provided that the goods were sold in markets where no quotas for Pakistani textiles existed and provided that the sales were in excess of the export quotas currently fixed by the Ministry of Commerce for each month. An extra export bonus of 10 per cent was also given to exports of sports goods, cutlery, and surgical instruments. November 23. Applications for operations on their blocked residerit or nonresident accounts by Indian nationals, firms, companies, and banks would be considered by the State Bank. 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN December 1. Certain commodities that previously could only be imported with bonus vouchers could no longer be imported at a l l; these included passenger automobiles valued at over PRs 11,000 and certain electrical household appara tus. December 11. With minor exceptions, no letters of credit could be opened for f ree list items not financed by fore ign aid. Import applica- tions for f ree list items could still be submitted to authorized banks but would not be considered un t il f u r t h er notice. December 21. Reduced exchange allocations for pilgrims were announced. December 22. All settlements between residents of Pakistan and residents of Rhodesia were proh ib i ted. With the exception of goods for wh ich firm and irrevocable commitments had been made be fo re December 22, all exports to Rhodesia and all imports of goods of Rhodesian origin were proh ib i ted. December 28. Pakistani na t iona ls residing abroad were granted bonus vouchers equivalent to 30 per cent of all fo re ign exchange remitted for the purchase of Government of Pakistan 5 per cent Defense Bonds, 1970. The t ran s fer abroad of interest or pr inc ipal of any bonds so acquired would not be permitted. 438 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Panaman ian Balboa 1.00 = US$1. U.S. currency notes and coins circulate f ree ly in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Import and export policy is determined by the Ministry of Agricul- ture, Commerce, and Industry. Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Off ice, a semiautonomous institution of the Panaman ian Government. This Office is responsible for the imple- mentation of restrictions on imports of commodities that compete with na t ional production and on certain exports. In rare cases, import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Import and Import Payments Import licensing applies ma in ly to imports of foods tu f fs. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities competing with domestic produc t ion; some of these are not being licensed. Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Authorization is required for exports of co f fee in any fo rm, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchand ise on wh ich export taxes are imposed is also subject to licensing. Export taxes are imposed on the fo l low ing: gold, silver, and p l a t inum; manganese; other m ine ra ls; banana s; coco- nuts ; scrap me ta ls; p e a r l s; an imal w a x; nispero gum; ipecac roo t; and rubber. Exports of wheat flour, f i rea rms, and ammunition are pro- hibited. The proceeds of exports are not sub ject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1965 December 1. It was announced that imports of some commodities would no longer be au thor ized, and that imports of certain other items would be reduced. Annual quotas were established for shirts, stockings, shoes, apples, and fish products. 440 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a par value for the Paraguayan Guarani was established by Paraguay with the Fund. However, exchange trans- actions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Exchange transactions take place at f r ee market rates, wh ich since October 1960 have been pegged at 0 123.60 buying, and 0 126.00 selling, per US$1. Settlements with Spain are made through a clearing account at a fixed rate of 0- 125.00 per US$1. All purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made through the commercial banks, except those related to government payments for imports and services, which are carried out through the Central Bank. There are no fo rwa rd exchange facilities. ,The mak ing available of fore ign exchange by the banks has at times been subject to a delay. In practice, receipts f rom many types of invisibles and export proceeds in excess of minimum surrender prices are negotiated in a pa ra l lel market. All purchases of exchange by banks are sub ject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. All remittances of foreign exchange are also sub ject to a tax of % of 1 per cent. The authorized banks are required to sell 25 per cent of their gross exchange receipts to the Central Bank and a fu r ther 15 per cent to the oil companies. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Paraguay administers the exchange controls and supervises the fore ign exchange transactions carried out by com- mercial banks. All exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Spain under a bilateral payments agreement with that country must be made through a clearing account maintained in terms of U.S. dollars. Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requirements. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are temporarily prohibited.1 All other imports are free of quantitative restriction and licensing. Imports of certain commodities are sub ject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent 1 These include sugar, portland cement, hides, onions, garlic, potatoes, rice, matches, and edible peanut, cottonseed, soy bean, corn, and coconut oils. 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY of the f.o.b. value, which is retained for a m in imum of 120 days, or if the deposit is made a f ter the date of shipment, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodities imported through the Spanish f ree zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for government imports, imports by diplomats and by certain international organiza- tions, certain agricultural machinery f rom any source, imports from Argentina, Bolivia, Braz i l, and Uruguay, Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, and imports f rom LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no fo re ign exchange payment takes place. An import surcharge of 30 per cent applies to most general imports. Petroleum products are subject to a surcharge of 10 per cent when imported f rom Argentina, Bolivia, B raz i l, or Uruguay, and to a surcharge of 15 per cent when imported f rom other countries. Wheat imports f rom coun- tries other than Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay are subject to a surcharge of 19 per cent. The surcharge is 6 per cent on imports from Bolivia other than petroleum products and wheat, and on some semiprocessed products imported f rom neighboring LAFTA countries, including Uruguay. These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance. The following are the pr inc ipal exemptions f rom surcharge: imports for the Government, for religious organizations, for cooperatives, for diplomats, and for certain international organ iza t ions; wheat imports from Argentina, Bolivia, Braz i l, and U ruguay; Spanish agr icu l tural and indus tr ial mach inery and implements imported through the Spanish f ree zone in Pa raguay; and imports f rom LAFTA countries of items included in the Paraguayan concession list. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of machinery and vehicles other than private automobiles. In principle, exchange is f ree ly available to pay for all imports, subject to production of documentary evidence, but in practice there may be some delay in the actual making available of such exchange when receipts of fore ign currencies are seasonally low. Payments for Invisibles Authorized banks may sell exchange freely for specified current invisibles, provided that appropriate documentation is submitted. They may grant allocations for travel purposes as follows, for each person 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY each trip: the equivalent of US$150 for neighboring countries, includ- ing Uruguay; of US$300 for other Latin American countries; and of US$1,000 for all other countries. Applications for exchange for other invisibles or for unusua l ly large amounts require the prior approval of the Central B ank; this is normally given if the Bank is satisfied that no illicit capital movements are involved. There may be certain delays in the provision of exchange for current invisibles. Travelers may take out any amount in fore ign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, in order to assure domestic supplies. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days a f ter completion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to a commercial bank. For exports subject to m in imum surrender prices (a/oros), proceeds in excess of those prices are in practice retained or sold in the para l lel market. Producers of coffee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained proceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to non- residents and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the producers' own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payab le in guaranies of 7% per cent, 5 per cent, or 2% per cent of the f .o.b. value. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements in respect of the exchange proceeds f rom invisibles. In practice, such proceeds are usually nego- tiated in the para l lel market. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward t rans fe rs must be recorded by the authorized banks. Authorized banks may free ly grant exchange for contractual capital transfers, subject to production of appropriate documentation. Other outward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank and in certain cases are restricted. The provision of exchange is frequen t ly subject to delay. Decree-Law No. 246 of February 25, 1955 empowers the Government to grant special tax, customs, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are registered; the terms may vary from case to case. Changes during 1965 January 1. The tax on purchases of exchange by banks was increased from %0 of 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY January 6. The meat pack ing industry's export processing quota for domestic live cattle for 1965 was fixed at 195,000 head, compared with a quota of 180,000 head in 1964. Only meat products and f rozen or chilled beef could be exported. Payment was to be received in con- vertible currency on the basis of off ic ial valuations. Subsequently, the quota was expanded by 30,000 head. January 16. Imports of wheat flour became subject to the 28 per cent import surcharge. February 2. The surcharge applicable to most imports f rom all countries was increased f rom 28 per cent to 30 per cent of the c . i . f. value. The increase did not apply to liquid fue ls (wh ich were subject to surcharges rang ing f rom 10 per cent to 15 per c e n t ), to imports f rom LAFTA countries of commodities on Paraguay's concession list (which remained exempt), or to imports of wheat (wh ich remained exempt when imported f rom Argen t ina, Bolivia, B raz i l, or Uruguay, and subject to a 19 per cent surcharge when imported f rom other countries). February 20. Imports of all types of rice were suspended. April 12. The Central Bank required the commercial banks to register all fore ign exchange operations; purchasers and sellers of exchange had to state origin or destination of the exchange and the na ture of the unde r ly ing transaction and to submit documentary evidence. Previously, an in fo rmal system of exchange allocation was operated by the commercial banks, wh ich had been instructed not to sell exchange for nonessential purposes. April 12. Authorized banks were empowered by the Central Bank to grant exchange f ree ly for payments for imports, for other specified current transactions, and for con trac tual capital t rans fe rs. All other applications for exchange required the prior approval of the Central Bank. May 22. The temporary ban on the import of potatoes was l i f ted. June 2. The swing ceiling under the payments agreement with Spain was reduced f rom US$2 million to US$1 million. July 5. Imports of edible peanut, cottonseed, soy bean, corn, and coconut oils were suspended. July 8. Banks were fo rma l ly instructed to limit the sale of exchange to travelers to US$150 a person for each trip to neighboring countries, inc lud ing Uruguay, US$300 for other Latin Amer ican countries, and US$1,000 for other countries. August 20. Producers of coffee were permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds for the purpose of paying dividends and 444 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY interest due to nonresidents and for imports of mach inery and equip- ment for their own use. September 22. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement was signed by the central banks of Argentina, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. October 13. The surcharge on most goods imported f rom neighboring countries, inc lud ing Uruguay, was reduced from 30 per cent to 6 per cent. November 1. Certain types of agr icu l tural machinery f rom any source were exempted f rom advance deposit. November 16. Imports of potatoes were prohibited. December 4- Decree No. 15241 established a 24 per cent surcharge on imports of a wide range of goods f rom LAFTA countries. For LAFTA countries that do not border on Paraguay, this represented no change in the existing 30 per cent surcharge on these goods. For contiguous LAFTA countries, inc lud ing Uruguay, the measure represented an increase in the surcharge on these goods f rom 6 per cent to 30 per cent. The surcharges on imports f rom Bolivia were not affected. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was estab- lished by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions are settled through the exchange market, in wh ich the rate on December 31,1965 was S/. 26.82 per US$1. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports are permitted f ree ly, except imports f rom Cuba, Ma in land Ch ina, and Eastern European countries other than Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia. A maritime freight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean f re ight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than certain agricultural and medical products, books, and coins. Exchange for payments abroad may be obtained f ree ly in the exchange market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license, and no control is exercised over export proceeds. Payments for and Proceeds from These are not restricted. Invisibles Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1965 September 22. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement was signed by the central banks of Argen t ina, B raz i l, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. November 1. An amendment to Law No. 15564 introduced, with effect f rom May 20, 1965, a tax of 35 per cent on all premiums paid to insurance companies not established in Peru. 446 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Exchange Rate System The par value is Philippine Pesos 3.90 = US$1. The o f f ic ial limits established by the Central Bank of the Philippines for its dealings with banks are P 3.8805 buying, and P 3.9195 selling, per US$1. The authorized agent banks in transactions with their customers are permitted to quote a buying rate of at least P 3.8610 and at most P 3.9195 per US$1, and a selling rate of at least P 3.8805 and at most P 3.9390 per US$1. Exchange rates for other authorized currencies purchased by the Central Bank are based on the spot buying or selling rates in New York for the currency concerned at the close of the day prior to the actual purchase in Man i la, and the Central Bank's current spot buying or selling rates for the U.S. dollar. Premiums and discounts on fo rwa rd exchange transactions are, in principle, le ft to the interplay of market forces, but the Central Bank sells fo rwa rd exchange to authorized agent banks to cover liabilities of their clients resulting from import and export transactions, at the interbank spot rate with fixed premiums. Certain firms which before Janua ry 19, 1962 with the prior approval of the Monetary Board contracted loans or incurred deferred payments obligations for imports of capital equipment at a rate not exceeding P 3.20 per US$1 are allowed to liquidate these obligations by buying foreign exchange f rom authorized agent banks at the off ic ial rate of P 3.90 per US$1, with the Central Bank re fund ing the d ifference. Administration of Control The few rema in ing exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank. The Central Bank may issue c ircu lars and directives to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Monetary Board. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments, but all exchange proceeds f rom exports must be obtained in Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French f r an c s, Italian lire, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss f ranc s, or U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments With the exception of advance deposit requirements, which apply to less essential commodities, and the prohibition of certain agricultural imports for protective reasons, there are no restrictions on imports. 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES Most imports are paid for by letter of credit. Before goods can be cleared through the customs, the importer must present a release certificate issued by the Central Bank through an authorized agent bank to show that any required advance deposit ( re fe r red to as a "special time deposit") has been pa id. The percentages of advance deposits required vary according to the degree of essentiality of the imports, viz., 25 per cent for semiessential producer goods, 75 per cent for nonessential producer goods and semiessential consumer goods, and 100 per cent for nonessential consumer goods and unclassified items. The advance deposit and release certificate requirements apply both to imports covered by letters of credit opened by the banks and to "no-dollar" imports (imports financed by importers' own exchange or not involving payments f rom the Ph i l ipp ines), the only exceptions being certain imports by government agencies, imports under the U.S. aid program, imports by local industries of raw materials to be used in their own operations, goods imported as Japanese war reparations and certified as such by the Reparations Commission, and certain other imports not intended for resale. Advance deposits must accompany the import letter of credit or, for "no-dollar" imports, be made to the agent bank before it issues a release cer t if ica te; they must be maintained for at least 120 days with banks, which in turn must keep 100 per cent of these amounts with the Central Bank, in cash or in the fo rm of govern- ment notes, securities, or bonds. Imports not subject to the advance deposit requirements may be financed by means of documents against payment or documents against acceptances not exceeding 90 days for importers, or 120 days for producers. Imports of raw materials by local industries may be financed under an open account arrangement payable by demand d r a f t, telegraphic transfer, or mail t rans fer within 120 days a f ter the issuance of the release certificate by the authorized agent bank concerned. Payments for Invisibles Payments for all invisibles may be made free ly. Travelers may take out any amount of fore ign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and economic development are prohibited. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d ra ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless 448 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES collection of the proceeds w i ll be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic t rans fe r, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collec- tion, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. Proceeds f rom all exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles may either be retained by the recipient or sold by him in the free market. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic currency. Capital There are no restrictions on capital movements. The banks may request applicants for exchange for capital transfers to complete a special fo rm prescribed by the Central Bank. Although no limitations are placed on commercial banks or other institutions regarding the extent to which they may extend or receive credit abroad, the Central Bank has asked the commercial banks to open stand-by letters of credit only when the facilities are to be used for trade or production purposes. At least 60 per cent of the capital of any enterprise exploiting na tural resources must be owned by Philippine citizens, but for this purpose U.S. citizens, corporations, and associations are, until July 3, 1974, given the same status as Philippine citizens. Retail trade establishments must be owned by Philippine citizens, but by virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement firms owned entirely by U.S. citizens may also engage in retail trade. Changes during 1965 January 1. Authorized agent banks could no longer charge their customers a foreign exchange margin on sales of foreign exchange. January 5. Goods imported as Japanese war reparations and certified as such by the Reparations Commission were exempted from advance deposit and release certificate requirements. January 8. Imports of machinery and equipment would not require a letter of credit, provided that they were to be used for industrial development and promotion of exports and provided that the credit obtained did not exceed US$50,000 and the maturity did not exceed two years. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES September 3. Monetary Board Resolution No. 1169 provided that firms which had contracted loans or incurred deferred payment obliga- tions for imports of capital equipment before January 19, 1962, and which fell within the purview of Monetary Board Resolution No. 1119 of August 1, 1960, could liquidate these obligations at an effec t ive rate of P 3.20 per US$1. Starting on September 17, 1965, applications were accepted for the r e fund of the d i f fe rence between P 3.20 and the f ree market rate at which manu fac tu r ing importers had made payments against these commitments on or a f ter Janua ry 1, 1963. September 10. Certain food items were f reed f rom the 75 per cent advance deposit requ iremen t; existing deposits for such commodities were released. September 28. The Central Bank announced that, effective immedi- ately, it would sell foreign exchange forward to authorized agent banks, to cover liabilities of these banks' clients resulting f rom import and export transactions, at the interbank spot rate with the fo l low ing premiums: % per cent for 30 days, % per cent for 60 days, and % per cent for 90 days. October 7. Commercial banks were required to maintain a ratio of at least 1:1 between direct foreign exchange assets and fore ign exchange liabilities. Banks fa i l ing to observe this ratio would not be permitted to sell foreign exchange for invisibles. November 6. The requirement that 20 per cent of the proceeds of ma jor exports be surrendered at the par value rate of P 2.00 per US$1 was abolished. November 8. The par value of the Philippine peso was changed f rom P 2.00 to P 3.90 per US$1. November 8. The free exchange market was abolished. November 10. The Central Bank announced that it would trade in spot exchange, and published m in imum and max imum buying and selling rates for spot U.S. dollars for its own transactions and those of other banks. In buying and selling foreign exchange, the commercial banks could not collect any commissions or charges other than cable charges incurred by them. 450 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The par value is Portuguese Escudos 28.75 = US$1. Transactions in pounds sterling with the public by the Bank of Portugal and authorized banks take place at fixed exchange rates of Esc 80.17 buy- ing, and Esc 80.83 selling, per £ stg. 1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar and other quoted currenc ies1 are based on these buying and selling rates for the pound sterling and on the exchange rate of the quoted currency in London. For settlements with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements,2 the U.S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dollars" and fixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange with the Bank of Portugal. They are also allowed to deal in fore ign exchange with banks abroad at the rates prevailing in the Portuguese foreign exchange market. In dealing with their customers, the authorized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in convertible currencies for their own account; their purchases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portugal. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Portugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies and to obtain short-term credits abroad. There is no forward exchange market in operation in Portugal, but authorized banks may enter into fo rwa rd transactions with individual customers. The exchange rates for these transactions may not be higher than the spot buying rate or lower than the spot selling rate. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territories constitute a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Monetary Area. The exchange control regulations of Portugal are for the most part applied un iform ly throughout the Area, and current payments between the various territories are made free ly through mu l t i la teral clearing accounts. 1The quoted currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Portugal has bilateral paymen ts agreements with Brazil, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Israel, and Poland. Settlements with Greece and Turkey are also channeled through special accounts. In addition, there is a special arrangement with the Chilean Government wh ich provides that an account in Portuguese escudos be kept in a Portuguese commercial b ank; this account is credited with payments for Portuguese imports of nitrates and debited with payments for Chilean imports f rom Portugal. A special payments arrangement also exists with Cuba. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is fo rmu la ted by the Commission of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Economy. A Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy administers the trade control; import and export licenses ("bu l le t ins") are issued by the Department for Licensing Foreign Trade, operating within the office of the Directorate-General. Licenses for imports of certain goods are issued by professional associations. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries w i th wh ich Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal (see foo tno te 1) or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Transactions with countries with wh ich Portugal has b i la teral payments agreements (see footnote 2) are settled through clearing accounts ma in ta ined in U.S. dollars, escudos, or the currency of the par tner country. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as fo l lows: "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with wh ich Portugal does not have bilateral payments.agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accoun ts in Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authorization of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for trans- actions expressed in escudos and duly au thor ized in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign countries, (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal, and (c) t rans fe rs between these accounts. For all other debit and credit operations, authorization of the Bank of Portugal is required. The granting of credit in the fo rm of overdraf ts on the above accounts for periods of one year or less requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. For periods longer than one year, authorization 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL is required f rom the Inspec tora te-General of Credit and Insu rance with the agreement of the Bank of Portugal. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries w i th wh ich Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and nonresident accounts in fore ign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are p roh ib i ted, ma in ly for sanitary reasons, for the protection of public order and morals, and for the prevention of trade f r aud s. Any physical or ju r id i c al entity may be an importer, the only requirement being that the importer pay income taxes regularly. Most imports consigned f rom and or ig ina t ing in the Portuguese overseas territories are f r ee of restriction. In exceptional cases, a registration procedure is app l ied, for payment control purposes. Con- trols are also exercised to ensure that goods o r ig ina t ing in Soviet bloc countries do not enter Portugal via Macao. Certain products, such as sugar, cotton, some oilseed produc ts, and a few other goods may be imported f ree ly f rom the Portuguese overseas territories but are sub- ject to quan t i ta t ive restrictions when imported f rom th ird countries. Practically all imports f r om outside the Portuguese Mone tary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports f ree of quantita- tive restriction, the bu l le t in serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary fore ign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equiva- lent to an import license. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported f ree ly from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list comprises about 61 ta r i ff items, and includes certain foods tu f fs, other agr icu l tural products, certain na tu ral or m anu f a c tu r ed raw ma ter ia ls, some textile fibers, and a number of finished products, inc lud ing vehicles and equipment. The l ibera l iza t ion does not app ly, however, to Ghana, Ind ia, Japan, and N ige r ia; imports f rom these GATT members of goods liberalized if imported f rom other GATT countries are subject to individual au thor iza t ion. Nonliberalized imports f rom countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global quotas or under ind iv idual au thor iza t ion. There are, in addition, global quotas for certain imports f rom EFTA countries. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authorizations. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made f ree ly through au thor ized banks. Such payments to foreign countries are also f ree of quantitative restrictions, but are subject to procedures wh ich d i f f er in respect of the amounts of fore ign exchange that au thor ized banks may grant f ree ly for the various transactions. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the au tho r ized banks may grant any amount of fore ign exchange for expenditures inc iden tal to t r ad e; up to the equivalent of Esc 50,000 per capita and per annum for tour ism; and up to the equ iva lent of Esc 100,000 for most transac t ions in invisibles not mentioned above, inc lud ing income on imported cap i ta l. For payments to countries with wh ich Portugal has b i la teral paymen ts agreements, the authorized banks may e f fect f r e e ly payments for invisibles listed in the respective paymen ts agreements. Application must be made to the Bank of Por tugal for exchange for paymen ts of items not re fe r red to above and for paymen ts in excess of the above- mentioned limits. Travelers may take out f ree ly domestic and fore ign banknotes and fore ign coins for their travel expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are e f fec ted on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bu l le t in s ). Export bu l le t ins are issued f r e e ly, with few exceptions; the pr imary purpose of this procedure is to en fo rce the prescription of currency and surrender regu la t ions. The export of a few domes t ica l ly p roduced goods is res t r ic ted, m a in ly to assure adequate supplies to domestic indus tr ies and to avoid depletion of local resources. Baggage and exports and re-exports of merchand ise whose value does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bulletin so long as they are not expressly excluded f r om th is exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an au tho r ized bank, w i th in the period stipulated in the export bu l l e t in, the to tal amount of the export proceeds, in the fo re ign exchange ind ica ted in the bulletin. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of commission expenses abroad, and f re igh t, insurance, or other charges pertaining to exports, f rom the total amount of the export proceeds sub ject to surrender. 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Proceeds from Invisibles Portuguese residents may receive f ree ly paymen ts for invisibles f rom residents of countries w i th wh ich Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements. Also, paymen ts f rom residents of countries with wh ich Portugal does have payments agreements may be received f ree ly for invisibles listed in the paymen ts agreements. Receipts on account of all other paymen ts for invisibles require au thor- ization by the Bank of Por tuga l, wh i ch is granted w i thout restriction, once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit! Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in f ree ly domestic and fo re ign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses. However, au tho r ized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay out fo r e ign bankno tes or coins for the settlement of operations expressed in fore ign currencies. Capital Capital t r an s f e rs between Por tugal and its overseas territories are subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the Inspectorate-General of Credit and In su rance; approval is also required f r om the au tho r i t ies of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 m i l l ion, the approval of the Minister of F inance and of the M in is ter of Overseas Territories is requ ired. For most types of transac t ion, however, au thor- ization to export f rom Portugal (and to import into the overseas terr i tory) is granted f ree ly whenever the t ransac t ion is found to be a bona fide one. All capital movements between Por tugal and other countries (exc lud ing credits w i th a term of one year or less) are sub ject to the prior au tho r iza t ion of the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insur- ance; and for transac t ions exceeding Esc 10 m i l l ion, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also requ ired. Moreover, be fo re gran t ing an au thor iza t ion, the Inspec tora te-General may request the advice of the Bank of Portugal as to the mone ta ry and fo r e ign exchange aspects of the transac t ion involved. Foreign investments in Portugal f r om residents of countries that are members of or associated w i th the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD are au thor ized f ree ly if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for Portugal's development. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises hav ing a ma jo r i ty of Portuguese capital. The t rans fer abroad of the f u ll proceeds f r om the liquidation of fo re ign investment which originated in a bona fide inward capital movement f rom OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD countries is authorized. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Foreign credits f rom OECD countries with a maturity up to five years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the under ly ing commercial or service transaction. The repayment of foreign credits and loans that originated in a bona fide inward capital move- ment is always authorized. Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not con- sidered indispensable for the na t ional economic development. In prac- tice, authorization is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or enlargement of existing Portuguese investments. Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securities, within time limits fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD country. They may also t ran s fer such proceeds to other residents, provided that the proceeds do not belong to a Portuguese credit institution and that their owner is not under an obligation to surrender them to such an institution. Arbitrage operations in fore ign securities carried out by residents of Portugal involving two other OECD countries or between Portugal and an OECD country are authorized f ree ly; but if a transfer of fore ign exchange to or f r om Portugal is involved, a prior authorization is required. Transfers by Portuguese nationals or by foreigners resident in Portugal who emigrate to any other OECD coun try are authorized up to Esc 100,000 annua l ly for a f am i ly. Transfers by fore ign nationals who have been resident in Portugal are au thor ized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a f am i ly when they return to their country of origin. Trans- fers on account of bequests, inheritances, and dowries to other OECD countries are au thor ized up to Esc 500,000. For bequests, inheritances, and dowries exceeding this amoun t, annual t rans fe rs up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. In cases of bequests and inheritances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a resident of Portugal and the legatee or heir a resident of an OECD country at the time of the death. G i f ts to relatives resident in OECD countries are authorized when their va lue does not exceed Esc 28,750 a year. Transfers to OECD countries in respect of l i fe insurance policies due f rom Portuguese insurers are au thor ized in favor of the benef ic iary when their value does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a capital sum, a reduced value, or an annu i ty certain, and Esc 50,000 for a surrender value. Capital movements and t rans fe rs of assets not enumerated in the preceding pa rag raphs and invo lv ing countries other than those men- tioned above are au thor ized on the merits of each case. 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Changes during 1965 April 27. Decree-Law No. 46303 in troduced a system of credit and credit insurance for exports f rom metropolitan Portugal and its over- seas provinces. April 28. Decree-Law No. 46312 concern ing fore ign investment in Portugal was published. It included the fo l low ing provisions: (1) Cer- ta in sectors of ac t iv i ty —ma in ly those considered to be of primary interest to the na t ional economy, together with pub l ic utilities and activities of interest to the na t ional defense —would, in principle, be reserved f or enterprises hav ing a ma jo r i ty of Portuguese capital. (2) Au thor iza t ion for inward t ran s fer and investment of foreign capital would always be granted when the capital was intended for purposes to be listed by the Council of Ministers for Economic A f fa i rs as being in l ine with the objectives of the development p lans. (3) When evaluating requests for authorization, the Government would not discriminate with regard to the origin of capital between countries belonging to or associated w i th the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD. (4) Investment of fore ign cap i tal in enterprises operating in Portugal would benefit f rom f avo r ab le conditions, although subject to, on an equal basis with Portuguese enterprises, the special regulations in effect for the specific sectors involved. (5) The export of securities belonging to persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad would always be au tho r ized, provided that they had been legally acquired or imported. (6) The t rans fer of the earnings f rom, and the f u ll l iqu ida t ion proceeds of, fore ign capital would always be authorized, provided that the investments resulted f rom legal imports of capital or f rom p ro f i ts f r om such capital. July 21. The b i la teral paymen ts agreement with the United A rab Republic was term ina ted. August 18. Mone ta ry regulations issued by the Ministry of Finance empowered the Bank of Portugal to set limits on the foreign exchange resources of commercial banks, and obliged any institution to provide the Bank of Portugal w i th any in fo rma t ion requested on their foreign exchange operations and fore ign borrowings. September 21. A list was pub l ished, in accordance with Article 4 of Decree-Law No. 46312 (see Apr il 28, abov e ), ind ica t ing the activities for wh ich capital investment, either po r t fo l io or direct, or the granting of medium-term or long-term credits by residents of member countries of the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD would be free ly authorized. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Rwanda has been established with the Fund.1 The off ic ial unit of currency, issued by the National Bank of Rwanda (the central b a n k ), is the Rwanda f r a n c, which is at par with the Belgian f ranc, giving the relationship of RF 50.00 = US$1. Official buying and selling rates are fixed daily by the central bank on the basis of rates quoted in Brussels. The o f f ic ial buying rate applies to all export proceeds and to certain receipts f rom invisibles, including embassy expenditures and fore ign aid. The off ic ial selling rate applies to payments for specified essential imports, to transporta- tion and insurance payments connected with trade transactions at the official rate, and to certain other payments for invisibles wh ich are authorized by the Na t ional Bank up to specified amounts (see section on Payments for Invisibles, be low ). There is a free market for all other transactions. On December 31, 1965 the f ree rate was RF 115.0 per US$1. The authorized bank must carry out permitted exchange transactions in the off ic ial market at rates between the buy ing and selling rates fixed by the National Bank of Rwanda for currencies quoted by that bank; the authorized bank deals in other currencies at rates fixed freely with its customers. The f ree rate of the Burundi f r a nc banknote is not permitted to appreciate beyond RF 57.1428 per FBu 100. Administration of Control Control over fore ign exchange transactions and fore ign trade is vested in the National B ank; authority to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to three authorized offices of the commercial bank. Exchange policy and fore ign trade policy are determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Committee, wh ich comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the Na t ional Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any cu r rency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted and specified by the National Bank ;2 other currencies may also be accepted, provided that the 1 On April 7, 1966, an initial par va lue for the Rwanda f r anc of RF 100 = US$1 was agreed with the In terna t ional Mone tary Fund. 2 These are listed as Belgian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 458 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA authorized bank can convert them into a specified currency at a discount not exceeding 5 per cent. Imports and Import Payments All imports except trade samples, baggage, and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to RF 5,000 require licenses. A few imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited for reasons of public policy. Before orders are p laced, applications for import licenses for all other goods must be submitted to the National Bank through the authorized bank on a fo rm entitled Import License and Payments Authorization (Modele 7 ). For the purposes of import licensing and exchange alloca- tion, goods are classified in two lists —List A and List B. List A includes goods considered by the authorities to be essential. The approval of an import license application for List A goods constitutes an au thor iza t ion also to obtain "allocated fo re ign exchange" at the o f f ic ial rate. In view of the tight reserve position, however, approval is sometimes given only on the condition that the importer provides his own exchange. O f f ic ial exchange must be purchased not later than three months af ter the expiration date of the import license. List B includes all other goods, such as butter, meat, alcoholic beverages, European f ru i ts, certain cheeses, films, certain refr igera tors, and private motor vehicles. For most of these imports, licenses are issued without an allocation of fo re ign exchange and exchange must be purchased in the f ree market. In some cases, the importer must provide his own exchange. Import licenses must be presented to the customs off ic ia ls when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expiration must be entered on the customs c learance fo rm, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs office. Payments for Invisibles Foreign exchange is sold by the Na t ional Bank at the o f f ic ial rate for transport and insurance connected with off ic ial rate imports and exports; for t ran s fe rs of up to 40 per cent of the salaries of foreigners working in Rwanda, up to a max imum of RF 20,000 a mon th; and, subject to ind iv idual approva l, for salaries of fo re igne rs traveling abroad on leave, up to RF 30,000 a month. Residents may purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda f r an cs up to certain limits. Purchases of foreign exchange at the off ic ial rate are authorized for travel purposes on an ad hoc basis. T rans fe rs of dividends and profits f rom approved fo re ign investments, insurance premiums, and interest and amortization of fore ign debt may be authorized on an ad hoc basis; however, the allocation of off ic ial 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA exchange for transfer of profits and dividends is suspended. Remit- tances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Foreign exchange for all other categories of invisibles must be purchased in the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange (Modele E). For co f fee exports, the Declaration must be presented to the National Bank for cer t if ica t ion; Declarations for other exports are certified by the authorized bank. A Declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, wh ich also reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burund i, the Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda pay- ments must be collected not later than 30 days a f ter the goods have left the coun t ry; for exports to all other countries, this period is 90 days, and for certain exports of minerals, 180 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to the authorized bank at the off ic ial rate of exchange, within 8 days f rom their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange f rom specified receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered within 8 days f rom their collection to the authorized bank at the off ic ial rate of exchange, e.g., receipts f rom expenditures by foreign embassies and from foreign aid. All other receipts f rom invisibles —including those resulting f rom the sale of goods and services to nonresidents temporarily staying in Rwanda, visitors' expenses, and remittances to religious missions, private schools, and other private institutions —may be exchanged at the free market rate. All claims sub ject to surrender at the o f f ic ial rate must be collected within 30 days f rom the date on which they become payable. Capital Repatriation of proceeds f rom the liquidation of fore ign investments is subject to authorization. Outward capital t ran s fe rs are usually not permitted. Changes during 1965 Dur ing the year, many items were removed f r om Import List A, and some imports on that list and some on List B were authorized only if the importer provided his own exchange. 460 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA January 1. Imports of butter, meat, and spare parts for automobiles were shifted f rom List A to List B. February 4- The amount beyond wh ich imports require a license was raised f rom RF 2,000 to RF 5,000. May 10. The f ree market rate of the Bu rundi f r a nc bankno te was not permitted to appreciate beyond RF 57.1428 per FBu 100. July 7. Off ic ial exchange for imports could not be purchased later than three months a f ter expiration of the import license. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Saudi Arab ian Riyals 4.50 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency sells U.S. dollars tP banks at the par value rate, and this serves as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. There are no restrictions on fore ign payments. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom March 22,1961. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained f ree ly. All imports f rom Israel are prohibited. Exports and Exports Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no control is. exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, and the re-export of certain imported items benef i t ing f rom government subsidy, are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1965 No significant changes took p lace dur ing 1965. 462 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Exchange Rate System No par value for the cu r rency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The un it of cu r rency is the CFA f r a n c, wh ich is o f f ic ia l ly maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r a n c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange t ransac t ions in French f r an cs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de TA f r i q ue de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and commerc ial banks take p lace at rates resu l t ing f rom the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r a nc p lus or m inus a commission. Exchange rates for other currenc ies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and inc lude a commission. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the BCEAO und er the super- vision of the Ministry of F inance. Foreign exchange t ransac t ions are handled by au thor ized banks in acco rdance w i th general or special authorization of the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Comme rce; the fo rm er requ i re the approval of the BCEAO. Import certificates for l ibera l ized commodities are made out by the importer himself but require the approval of the BCEAO; this approval relates to the m ann er of payment only. Prescription of Currency Senegal is a member of the French Franc A rea, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with Guinea and Ma l i, w i th wh ich Senegal has concluded b i la te ral payments agreements, are made through special accoun ts; the account with Gu inea is denominated in U.S. dollars, and that with Ma li in French f r an c s. Settlements with other countries are usually made in French f r an cs through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries —provided tha t, the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange marke t —or th rough Foreign Accoun ts in Convertible Francs. All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. 1The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de FAfrique de FOuest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area are generally f ree of license and quantitative restriction. Certificates of importation provide for the import of certain goods f rom European OECD coun- tries, Canada, and the United States without quantitative restriction. The import of a number of goods is prohibited; also, imports of Portuguese, Rhodesian, and South A f r ican origin and/or provenance are proh ib i ted. A jo int French-Senegalese Committee establishes mini- mum amounts for imports of goods f rom the French Franc Area. There is an annual program for imports f rom all other countries. The import program is put into effect through individual licenses, which are required for most imports. Licenses are issued only to authorized traders and to industrial and agr icu l tural producers. The program con- tains global quotas for imports f rom the EEC countries except France and for imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area. The latter quotas may also be used for imports f rom EEC countries other than France. An import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the required documents to prove that the goods have been shipped are submitted to an author- ized bank. App l ica t ions for licenses to import goods to be used directly by exporters are approved free ly if the imports are to be paid for with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, below). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f r e e ly; those to other countries are usually subject to the approval of the BCEAO. Payments for invisibles related to t rade are permitted f ree ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income acc ru ing to nonresidents f rom profits or dividends and t ran s fe rs of other income are au thor ized f ree ly by the BCEAO. Payments for many other invisibles are approved with varying degrees of restrictiveness. There is a basic tourist allocation for travel to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area of CFAF 75,000 for each person a yea r; larger amoun ts may be granted upon submission of evidence concerning the applicant's income. Allocations for business travel are granted according to the na ture and length of the trip and status of the applicant. Business travel may also be financed with f u n ds f rom EFAC accounts. Travelers to Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue w i th in the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of 750 French f rancs, or up to 75,000 CFA or CFP f r an c s, or up to the equivalent of 750 French f rancs in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French f r an c. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, t u n n y ), exports to coun- tries in the French Franc Area are f r ee of license. Exports to other countries require licenses, mainly in order to ensure that payment conforms to the prescription of currency regulations, to assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal, and to prevent certain re-exports. Exports to countries outside the French Franc Area also require a fore ign exchange commitment (engagement de change), by which the exporter undertakes to repatriate the proceeds within a specified period. All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain part of their foreign currency proceeds in special, non transferab le EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, wh ich may be used by the exporters themselves to pay for imports of raw materials or equipment needed in their own businesses, for representation and advertising expenses, or for business trips abroad. The proportions of export proceeds that may be credited to EFAC accounts are 12 per cent for firm sales to the United States and Canada, 8 per cent for firm sales to other countries outside the French Franc Area, and 6 per cent for sales on consignment. Except for pro- ceeds f rom exports on consignment, these percentages may be increased by 3 per cent by enterprises pr inc ipa l ly engaged in export business. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect f rom nonresidents amounts exceed- ing F 100, or the equivalent in CFA f rancs, in respect of services and of income f rom fore ign securities; if these collections are in foreign currencies, they must be surrendered within three months f rom the date of receipt. Travelers f rom Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Togo, and Upper Volta may bring in any amount of CFA bank- notes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers f rom other countries may bring 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries out- side the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean and Ma l ian currencies is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Senegal and other French Franc Area countries are f ree of con t ro l; those between Senegal and all other countries require approval. Foreign investment in Senegal is sub ject to the pr ior approval of the BCEAO; approval depends on the na tu re and purpose of the pro- posed investment. In accordance with the Investment Code of March 22, 1962, the purpose of wh ich is to encourage domestic and foreign private investment in pro jec ts wh ich con fo rm to Senegal's Four-Year Development P lan, an investor may sign a special f o u n d i ng agreement (convention d'etablissement) w i th the Government by which he receives additional legal, f in an c i a l, and other assurances in return for his commitment to carry out a certain program. A conven- tion d'etablissement is extended only to domestic and fo re ign investors who propose a m in imum investment over three years of CFAF 500 million. Furthermore, firms proposing a program that either involves a minimum investment of CFAF 40 m i l l ion in three years, or creates at least 40 permanent jobs for Senegalese workers and s ta f f, may be accorded the designation of pr ior i ty enterprises; as such, they are eligible for considerable tax privileges. The corresponding m in ima for investments outside the Cap Vert region are CFAF 20 million invested or 20 jobs created. Changes during 1965 March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Ruman ia, wh ich was also app l icab le to Senegal, was term ina ted. May 19. The Investment Code of Ma rch 22, 1962 was modified by Decree No. 65-34. The m in imum requirements for investments seeking designation as pr ior i ty enterprises were lowered, and the range of benefits that could be granted to new investments was increased. July 1. The implementation of exchange control was entrusted to the BCEAO; the Exchange Office was abolished. December 27. All exports to Rhodes ia and all imports of goods of Rhodesian origin or shipped f rom Rhodesia were proh ib i ted. All settle- ments between Senegal and Rhodesia were prohibited. 466 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Exchange Rate System The par value is Leone 1 = US$1.40. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions with commercial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = £ stg. 0.10s. Od., subject to a max imum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The leone circulates concurrently with the West A f r i c an pound, which the West A f r ican Currency Board maintains at par with the pound sterling, giving a relationship to the U.S. dollar of £WA 1 = US$2.80.1 The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling on the current London market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Ministry of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange con t ro l ' is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Au thor ized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel- ing expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct payments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made f ree ly in sterling or any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to and receipts from Guinea must be channeled through a clearing account established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Authorized payments to other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodes ia ), inc lud ing payments for imports, may be made in leones or West A f r i c an pounds to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any other foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Receipts f rom other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling f r om an External Account in the United Kingdom, in leones or West A f r i c an pounds f rom an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified currency.2 1The West Afr ican pound w i ll cease to be legal tender in Sierra Leone w i th effect from February 4,1966. 2 The specified currencies are listed as Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, .Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss f rancs, and U.S. dollars. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Receipts f rom exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may also be obtained in any currency of a country outside the Sterling Area that is f ree ly exchangeable for Sierra Leonean cur- rency or sterling. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones or West A f r i c an pounds held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated Ex ternal Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments f r om residents of the Sterling Area, with t ran s fe rs f r om other Ex ternal Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of fo re ign currenc ies other than Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents. They may be debited for paymen ts to resi- dents of the Sterling Area, for t r an s f e rs to other Ex ternal Accounts, and for purchases of fo re ign currenc ies other than Rhodes ian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are accounts w i th banks in Sierra Leone con- ducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to wh ich are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom South A f r i ca are prohibited. All imports f rom countries in the Sino-Soviet area, except those that are members of the GATT, and certain commodities 3 f rom any source requ ire indi- v idual import licenses. With the exception of imports of textiles f rom Japan, wh ich require an ind iv idual license, all other imports f rom Czechoslovakia and most countries and territories 4 outside the Sino- 8 The list includes bacteriological produc ts and o ther an t ib io t ic s, opium and cocaine der iva t ives and prepara t ions, medicines and p h a rm a c e u t i c al p roduc ts, f i rea rms, amm u n i t i o n, explosives, unworked and p a r t ly worked s i lver, j ew e l ry, gold, mea t, rice, seeds, flower bu lbs, p l an t s, wh e a t, wh e at flour, corn, raw tobacco, most cotton fabr ics, fiber suitcases, umb re l las, and commod i t ies of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Produce M a rk e t ing Board ( i .e ., eggs and l ive c a t t l e ). 4 Argen t ina, Au s t r a l i a, A u s t r i a, Bahamas, Barbados, Be lg ium. Be rmuda, Bo l iv ia, Brazil, Bu rma, Cambod ia, Cameroon, Canada, Cen t ral A f r i c an R epub l i c, Ceylon, Chad, Ch i le, Colombia, Congo (B r a z z a v i l l e ). Democ ra t ic R e p u b l ic of Congo. Costa Rica, Cuba. Cyprus, Dahomey, D enm a rk, Dom in ican Repub l ic. Ecuado r, El Salva- dor, F in land, France, Gabon, Federal Repub l ic of G e rm a n y, G h a n a, Greece. Gua te- m a l a, Haiti, Honduras. Hong Kong, Ice land, India, Indonesia, I re land, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, Japan, Jo rdan, Kenya, K uw a i t, Leeward Islands, Libya, Luxembourg, Ma lagasy Repub l ic. Ma law i, Ma lays ia, Ma l i, Ma l ta, Mau r i tan ia, Mexico, Morocco, Muscat and Oman. N e th e r l and s, New Zea land, N icaragua, Niger, Nigeria, No rway, Pak is tan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Rhodesia, Senegal, Spain, Sweden, Sw i t z e r l and, Tanzan ia, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tun is ia, Tu rkey, Uganda, Un i ted K ingdom, Un i ted States, Upper Vo l ta, Uruguay, Venezue la, W indward Islands, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 468 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Soviet area may be made f r e e ly under open general license. Foreign exchange is granted for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made f r e e ly. Rem i t tances to a ll other countries require approval. For t ravel to coun tr ies outside the Sterling Area, residents are entitled to a basic exchange a l lowance of Le 500 du r ing a ca lendar year. App l ica t ions for larger amoun ts are considered on an ind iv idual basis. Travelers may take out up to the equivalent of Le 50 of the ir basic exchange a l lowance in fo re ign cu r rency notes other than sterling notes or Rhodes ian pound notes, and the rema inder in sterling notes. In addition to the basic exchange a l lowance, trave lers may take out, regardless of des t ina t ion, the equivalent of Le 20 in any combina- tion of leone notes, West A f r i c an currency notes, and sterling notes. Nonresident travelers may take out fo re ign cu r rency banknotes, inc lud ing sterling notes, declared by them when en te r ing Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities to certain des t ina t ions, exports requ ire ind iv idual export licenses. Exports to South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. The proceeds in specified currencies (see foo tno te 2) of exports to countries outside the Sterling Area must be sold to an au thor ized bank in Sierra Leone w i th in six mon ths f r om the da te of export, unless permission to do otherwise is ob ta ined. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified cu r renc ies (see footnote .2) must be o f fe red for sale to an au tho r ized bank. Persons en te r ing Sierra Leone may b r ing in f ree ly fo re ign and domestic bankno tes, but must dec la re these on entry. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of cap i tal between Sierra Leone and other Sterling Area countries. Investments by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be repa tr ia ted at any time, together with prof i ts, provided that exchange control permission was obtained in i t ia l ly for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Ord inance imposes control on the issue and t r an s f er of securities. The p lac ing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if the issuer is resident outside the Sterling 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Area. Permission must also be obtained before a security registered in Sierra Leone may be t rans fe r red to a person resident outside the Sterling Area. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone w i thout permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, the company is usually required to ob ta in bank ce r t i f ica t ion of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission w i ll not be given later for tak ing out apprec iab ly more than was brought in. The Develop- ment Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs duty concessions to foreign and domestic companies under tak ing industrial or agr icu l tural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Changes during 1965 February 27. Certain commodities were added to the list of goods that require a license for import f r om any source; these inc luded wheat and wheat flour, corn, and most cotton fab r ics. March 31. A new customs ta r i ff was in troduced. The rema in ing tar iff preferences for goods f rom British Commonwealth countries were abolished. April 7. Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were added to the list of specified currencies. May 1. Further commodities were added to the list of goods that require a license for import f rom any source. May 26. The Exchange Control Act was amended to define the currencies of all other Sterling Area countries, inc lud ing sterling, as foreign currencies. May 26. The regulations concerning the import and export of bank- notes by travelers were revised. June 21. The Minister of Finance delegated to the Governor of the Bank of Sierra Leone all powers re la t ing to the day- to-day adm in is tra- tion of exchange control. August 6. An in i t ial par va lue for the leone of Le 1 — US$1.40 was established with the In terna t ional Monetary Fund. August 20. Canad ian dollars, Japanese yen, and Spanish pesetas were deleted f rom the list of specified currencies. September 16. General Import License No. 1 of 1966 was pub l ished; attached was a revised list of commodities requ ir ing a specific license for import from any source. The open general license applied to Czechoslovakia and most countries outside the Sino-Soviet a rea; it did not apply to imports of textiles f rom Japan. 470 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE September 22. Certain vegetables were added to the list of goods that require a license for import f rom any source. October 7. Government Notice No. 986 invited importers to submit before October 31, 1965 license app l ica t ions for all imports requiring a specific import license. November 12. Rhodesia was excluded f rom the Sterling Area as defined in Sierra Leone's exchange control regulations. November 24. Import duties on many commodities were increased by 10 per cent or 25 per cent of the ex is t ing rate of du ty. November 29. The accoun ts of residents of Rhodesia were designated Rhodesian Accounts. Exports to Rhodesia had to be paid for in Sierra Leonean currency f r om an Ex ternal Account, in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, by deb i t ing a Rhodes ian Account, or in a specified currency. 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE 1 Exchange Rate System The monetary unit is the Malayan Dollar, which is issued by the Malaya-British Borneo Currency Board and also circulates in Malaysia. The par value is Malayan dollar 3.06122 = US$1. The Ma layan dollar is pegged to the pound sterling at M$l = 2s. 4d. The Currency Board stands ready to buy sterling f rom, and sell sterling to, banks in Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei at 2s. 4%d. and 2s. 3%d., per M$l, respectively. The commercial banks quote mutually agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies.2 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Malayan dollars against sterling in t*he Singapore exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange market. On December 31, 1965, the market rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.071 per US$1. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Singapore Government through an Assistant Controller of Foreign Exchange. Much of the authority for approving normal cur- rent payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The authority for import control rests with the Government of Singapore; the day-to-day administration of import control is carried out by the Department of Import and Export Control. Prescription of Currency Singapore is a member of the Sterling Area and follows the prescrip- tion of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and f rom Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made either in Ma layan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be obtained either in Malayan dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Indonesia and Rhodesia. 1 Singapore is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 3 The list of specified currencies is identical with that established under the United Kingdom's exchange control regulations. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any fore ign currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Singapore, with trans- fers of Ma layan do l lars or sterling f rom other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for t r an s f er to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be t rans fe r red to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any fo re ign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of resi- dents of Indonesia and Rhodesia are designated Indonesian Accounts and Rhodesian Accounts, respectively. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts' are credited with those capital proceeds due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area that are not permitted to be t rans fe r red abroad. Balances on Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts may either be invested in any Sterling Area security with a ma tur i ty beyond five years that is quoted on a recog- nized stock exchange in the Sterling Area or, with permission of the Assistant Controller of Foreign Exchange, be transferred to a Blocked Account in the United Kingdom. Permission for such t rans fe rs to Blocked Sterling Accounts is given f ree ly. In cases of hardsh ip, moderate amounts are released f rom Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts. Proceeds accru ing f r om the liquidation of investments made out of Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts must be credited to a Blocked Ma layan Dollar Account. Earnings accruing f rom such investments, however, are free ly transferab le. Imports and Import. Payments Most imports are permitted f ree ly under open general license or specific licenses, depend ing on the na ture and origin of the goods. A few imports are controlled for hea l th or security reasons, and in appropriate cases certain conditions must be satisfied be fo re licenses are issued. A number of imports are controlled for fore ign exchange reasons. All imports or ig ina t ing in Rhodesia and South A f r i ca or any terri- tory administered by South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. The import of goods of Indonesian origin is proh ib i ted when they are shipped in vessels that are either Indonesian-owned or registered in Indonesia, or when they are shipped in vessels of less than 200 tons. 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE When necessary, permission is given f ree ly for payments in fore ign currency for all permitted imports f rom countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Sterling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and per- sonal payments to other countries, except Indonesia and Rhodesia, are, in general, authorized. There are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made ava i lab le for travel abroad. Special arrange- ments permit f am i ly remittances to Ma in land China to be made through licensed remittance shops up to M$45 f rom a fam i ly in any one month. Remittances to nonresidents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide investments are subject to exchange control approval, which normally is given free ly. Unless special per- mission is obtained, not more than M$500 in Ma layan notes and the equivalent of £ stg. 250 in foreign notes may be taken out of Singapore by travelers; there is, however, no restriction on the amount of Ma- layan notes that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to Brunei or Malaysia. Exports and Export Proceeds Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding M$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling Area, and for exports to Indonesia of gold, p la t inum, precious stones, and cigarettes; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Ordinance and are sold to an authorized bank. All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct f rom Brunei or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Ma layan notes, and other travelers may bring in M$500; otherwise, permission is required for the import of Ma layan notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of India and Indonesia. No limitations are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and f rom other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and outward capital transfers 474 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE between Singapore and countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control app rova l; such approval is freely granted for inward transfers, but the subsequent utilization of nonresident-owned funds in Singapore in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Investment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Indonesia and Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is free ly permitted if made through a recognized stock exchange with funds f rom an External Account or t rans fe r red in a specified currency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to ind iv idual approval, if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and develop- ment projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. However, to ensure that subscription monies are derived f rom an External Account, exchange control approval is required before shares are issued to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. The repatriation of initial capital and appreciation to countries outside the Sterling Area is permitted only for investment projects that have been approved by the exchange control authorities since January 1, 1950; the proceeds realized f rom investments in recognized marketable securities are not remittable unless accru ing to a resident of a Scandinavian country. Funds of a capital na ture owned by resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area, the t rans fer of which is not approved by the exchange control authorities, are in the first instance credited to Blocked Ma layan Dollar Accounts. Balances in such accounts may, on application, be free ly t ran s fe r red to Blocked Accounts in the United K ingdom. However, remittances f rom Singa- pore to the Scandinavian countries by residents of those countries in respect of their own assets are permitted freely on application. Investments by Singapore na t iona ls in countries outside the Sterling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control au thor i- ties; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Changes during 1965 August 9. Singapore separated f rom Ma lays ia. During the year, Singapore introduced restrictions for protective reasons on imports of a number of commodities and prohibited all trade with Rhodesia. 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Somali Shillings 7.14286 = US$1. The Somali National Bank carries out exchange transactions in convertible cur- rencies l with authorized dealers at a single fixed rate for each currency based on the par va lue or o f f ic ial rate of that currency and the par value of the Somali sh i l l ing. Settlements under bilateral payments agreements are made at rates corresponding to o f f ic ial par values. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Somali National Bank and five commercial banks appointed as authorized exchange dealers in respect of transactions in gold and foreign currencies. The banks charge a fo re ign exchange commission ( inc lud ing bank ing commis- sion) of 1.7 per cent for banknotes and 0.7 per cent for all other exchange transactions. Authorized exchange dealers generally do not conduct fo rwa rd exchange transactions on beha lf of the public, although this is not prohibited. An exchange tax of 3 per cent applies to all purchases of fore ign exchange other than those made in connec- tion with foreign aid or made by or on beha lf of the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and in terna t ional organizations. Administration of Control The Ministry of Industry and Commerce is the pr inc ipal govern- ment agency concerned with the implementation and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the authority to regulate and control all fore ign economic transactions and to establish policy for the licensing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali National Bank is authorized to determine the rates at wh ich foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of convertible cur- rencies,1 and to appoint banks as authorized exchange dealers. It may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. An Advisory Commission, con- sisting of nine members representing various ministries, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Au thor i ty, and the police, advises the Ministry of Industry and Commerce on policy questions relating to the regulation and control of fore ign economic transactions. Licensing Committees, usua l ly consisting of members representing the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Authority, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and for transfers in respect of 1 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, East A f r ican shillings, French francs, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 476 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA services. The Somali Na t ional Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. T rans fe rs in respect of capital are au thor ized by the Licensing Committees. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Ma in land Ch ina and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settlements with the United A rab Repub l ic are largely made in convertible currencies (see foo tno te 1 ); 30 per cent of .payments for imports f rom the U.A.R. and all paymen ts for invisibles to the U.A.R. other than those for Suez Canal dues are debited to Somalia's creditor balance resulting f rom the term ina ted payments agreement with that country. Settlements w i th all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in convertible currencies (see footnote 1). Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may open accounts in Somali shillings with any bank in Somalia. These accoun ts may be used f ree ly for transactions in Soma l ia; au tho r iza t ion is requ ired, however, for all t ran s fe rs abroad. D ip loma ts, consu lar agents, and in te rna t ional organizations and their fo re ign staff may open accoun ts in U.S. do l lars or other convertible cur- rencies (see footnote 1). Imports and Import Payments For reasons of pub l ic policy, the import of a few items may be pro- hibited and that of certain other items requires individual license. All other commodities may be imported f ree ly. Ind iv idual licenses are required for 33 commodities or groups of commodities, constituting approx ima te ly one ha lf of total imports in va lue. These commodities comprise four broad categories: (1) items subject to control for reasons of security, hea l th, or pub l ic po l icy; (2) commodities wh ich are domestically produced or the import and distribution of which is handled by state trad ing agencies; (3) commodities imported under tied loans and grants; and (4) items considered to be of a luxury or nonessential character. All imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license d i f f er in weight, quantity, or value by more than 10 per cent f rom the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agencies, and inter- national organizations are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 5 per cent. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali National Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of a certified copy of the import declaration together with the import license (where required) and other documentation re la t ing to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, e tc . ). Provided that the Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for imports is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day fo l low ing the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports. Special payments regulations apply to border trade in specified areas of Somalia; part of this trade is carried on by traders who do not operate through authorized bank ing institutions. Such traders are permitted to use the proceeds f rom their exports to a neighboring country for the import of goods f rom that country up to Sh. So. 10,000 a month for each person. Unused balances remaining f rom such compensation transactions must be surrendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to prevent unau thor ized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requirements are generally met. Transfers of salaries, wages, and professional earnings are nor- mally allowed up to 50 per cent of the amounts earned in Somalia. The Somali National Bank may directly grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Applications for exchange for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees. Nonresident travelers may take out free ly any foreign exchange or Somali currency which they brought in, provided that they leave the country within three months of their arr iva l. Resident travelers may take out free ly Sh. So. 200 in Somali notes and coins, any amount in foreign banknotes and coins wh ich the Somali National Bank is not prepared to purchase, and other fore ign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of Sh. So. 200. A currency declaration is required by all persons leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of a few commodities may be prohibited for reasons of public policy. An export declaration is required for all commodities. Ten commodities or groups of commodities constituting approximately 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA one half of Somalia's exports are subject to license. All other exports may be made f ree ly. All exports are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 5 per cent. Except in border trade (see section on Imports and Import Pay- ments, above ), all export proceeds must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within five business days a f ter their receipt. The Somali National Bank may exempt exporters f rom the surrender obliga- tion in respect of their export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be repatriated, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali National Bank or to an au thor ized dealer within five business days a f ter their receipt. The Somali Na t ional Bank may grant exemptions f rom the surrender requirement. Nonresidents may bring in free ly with them any amount in fore ign exchange and up to Sh. So. 200 in Somali b a n k n o t e s ;2 they must make a currency declaration when entering the country. Resident travelers are obliged, upon arr iva l, to declare and o f fer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold coins they bring in. Capital Most capital transactions are sub ject to licensing. In accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960, fore ign enterprises must be registered with the P lann ing Department of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. For "pro- ductive" enterprises (i.e., those wh ich engage in irr iga t ion, improve- ment of land, establishment of fac tor ies, construction of aqueducts, and testing, ana lyz ing, and d r i l l i ng activities in connection with oil and mineral exp lo ra t ion ), prof i ts may be t rans fe r red abroad f ree ly up to a limit of 15 per cent per annum of the capital invested. The capital itself may be t rans fe r red abroad beg inn ing five years a f t er the date of registration. Profits resulting f rom other fore ign investments may be t rans fe r red abroad up to a limit of 10 per cent per annum of the capital invested, and the capiital itself may be t rans fe r red abroad over a m in imum period of three years, beginning seven years a f t er the date of investment. Changes during 1965 June 21. New payments arrangemen ts w i th the Un i ted A r ab Repub l ic came into operation. 2 This limit was in t roduced on February 24, 1966. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA December 1. Imports of rice required an ind iv idual license. December 1. A M in is ter ial Decree entrusting the control over invisibles to the Licensing Committees and the Somali Na t ional Bank entered into fo rce. December 30. A statistical and administrative tax of 5 per cent was introduced. The tax applied to all exports and imports other than imports made by the Government, d ip loma t ic and consular agencies, and in te rna t ional organ iza t ions. December 30. An exchange tax of 3 per cent was introduced on all purchases of fo re ign exchange other than those made in connection with fore ign aid or by or on beha lf of the Governmen t, diplomatic and consular agencies, and in terna t ional organizations. 480 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System The par value is South A f r i c an Rand 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rates for sterling against rand (R 199.75 buying, and R 200.75 selling, per £100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Subject to certain limitations, author- ized dealers are perm i t ted to conduct f o rw a rd exchange operations among themselves and with overseas banks. The rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1965 were US$1.4040 buy ing, and US$1.3955 selling, per R 1. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Basutoland, Bechuana land, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Otherwise, there are v i r tua l ly no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South A f r i c a, South West A f r i c a, Basutoland, Bechu- ana land, and Swaz i land, and these territories are regarded as fo rm ing, with the Repub l ic of South A f r i c a, a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports ac t ing on beha lf of the Secretary for Commerce and Industries. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this au thor i ty to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank; in tu rn, the Reserve Bank has delegated to the commercial banks much of its licensing power. App rop r ia te exchange for licensed imports is made ava i lab le by the au tho r ized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South A f r i ca is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with residents of other countries except Rhodesia may be made in sterling or rand to or f rom an External Account or in any specified currency ,1 or, for outgoing payments only, in any other non-Sterling Area currency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. 1 In the South A f r i c an exchange control regulations, specified currencies are listed as Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French francs, I t a l i an lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian k rone r, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are the accounts of residents of countries outside South A f r i c a, South West A f r i c a, Basutoland, Bechuana land, and Swaziland (except the Blocked Accoun ts of residents of the last three territories —see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). They are divided into four categories: Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, External Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r i c an residents to Sterling Area countries; with t rans fe rs f rom other Nonresident Sterling Area Accoun ts; and with the proceeds f r om sales to an au tho r ized dealer in South A f r i ca of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling Area (exc lud ing South A f r i c a ). They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to South A f r i c an residents; for paymen ts to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned) and to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in South A f r i c a; for purchases of any Sterling Area cu r rency; and for with- drawals by the account holder wh i le he is temporar i ly resident in South A f r i c a. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited w i th all au thor ized payments by South A f r i c an residents; with t ran s fe rs f rom Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country con- cerned; with t rans fe rs f rom Ex ternal Accounts in South A f r i c a; with transfers f rom other Rhodesian Accoun t s; and with the proceeds f rom the sale to an authorized dealer in South A f r i ca of Rhodes ian currency, any specified currency (see foo tno te 1 ), or the currency of any country in the Sterling Area other than South A f r i c a, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South A f r i c an residents; for t rans fe rs to other Rhodesian Accounts in South A f r i ca for any purpose; for purchases of Rhodesian currency in South A f r i c a; and for w i thdrawa ls by the account holder wh i le he is temporarily resident in South A f r ica. External Accounts are held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r i c an residents to such countries 482 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA outside the Sterling A r e a; with t rans fe rs f rom other External Accounts in South A f r i ca and f rom Ex ternal Accounts in the United Kingdom or other countries in the Sterling Area (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country con c e rn ed ); and with the proceeds from sales to an au thor ized dealer in South A f r i ca of specified currencies (see foo tno te 1). They may be debited for payments to South A f r i c an residents and residents of other countries in the Sterling Area f or any purpose; f or t r an s f e rs to Rhodesian Accounts or to other External Accounts in South A f r i ca or in any other country in the Sterling A rea; for purchases of any non-s ter l ing cu r rency; and for w i thdrawa ls by the account ho lder wh i le he is temporarily resident in South A f r i c a. Blocked Accounts represent ma in ly the proceeds f rom sales of South A f r i c an securities by a nonresident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be t ran s fe r red f rom South A f r i ca or to ano ther Blocked Account in South A f r i c a, but may be retained on deposit or reinvested in securities wh ich are quoted l o c a l l y; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in Government, Mun ic ipa l, or Public Utility Stocks, the proceeds on redemption at ma tu r i ty are f ree ly t rans fe rab le to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous period of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available to nonresidents on ly, of five-year t ran s fe rab le bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repayab le in fo re ign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. Prior to the creation of this f a c i l i ty on June 11, 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to a special issue, made ava i lab le to nonresidents on ly, of three-year, nonnegotiable, non t ran s fe rab le bonds (ca l led nonresident bonds) bear- ing interest at 3a/4 per cent and repayable (in three annual installments f rom the date of subscr ip t ion) in fo re ign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may also be used for direct investment in m a n u f a c t u r i ng enterprises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the permissible t rans fe rab le amoun t, and the proceeds of South A f r i c an securities held by imm igran ts prior to their arrival in South A f r i ca or acquired abroad w i th in three years of their arr iva l, are also blocked, but f avo r ab le consideration is given to the release of such immigrants' funds (see section on Capital, be low ). Imports and Import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods of the same type previously brought in by the importer. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Import licenses are valid for imports f rom any country. Imports f ree of license include all goods wh ich are grown, produced, or m anu f a c- tured in Basutoland, Bechuanaland, Ma law i, Rhodesia, Swaziland, and Zambia. The Import Control Regulations for 1966 distinguish between the fo l low ing categories: (1) Goods that may be imported without import license. The list includes tea, raw wool, various materials for the clothing industry in South A f r ica, newspapers, books, periodicals, certain stationery items, petrol, oils, lubricants, scientific and laboratory equipment, and X-ray apparatus and film. (2) Goods that require import permits for which no annual quotas are fixed for individual importers. This list includes raw materials and capital equipment for industry, m in ing, and agriculture, and comprises three main categories, as fo l lows: (a) goods required by manu fac tu re rs for processing in their own fac to r ies; (b) goods imported by merchants for resale to industry; and (c) capital plant and equipment. In respect of ( a ), permits are issued to cover their f u ll requirements, due regard being taken of the availability of supplies f rom domestic sources. (The term " fu ll requirements" is defined as four months' stock at the current rate of consumption. Availability f rom domestic sources is determined in the light of prices, quality, and delivery of locally manu fac tu red supplies.) For ( b ), permits are issued within the limits of quotas authorized f rom time to time with the proviso that expanding firms may have their allocation revised in relation to their actual growth. In respect of ( c ), permits are granted on the basis of essentiality, provided that such p lant and equipment are not available f rom domestic sources. Availability f rom domestic sources is determined (as in the case of raw materials) in the light of price, quality, and delivery. (3) Motor vehicles and CKD (completely knocked down) materials for motor vehicles. Import permits are free ly available to persons who wish to import bu i l t-up motorcars with a retail price not exceeding R 1,900 and who wish to travel outside South A f r i c a, provided that they require the use of a motorcar dur ing their absence (this applies to travel for vacations and business a l ike) and provided that the car is registered and used abroad by the applicant for six months or more. Import permits are issued free ly to any person who wishes to import a motorcar with a retail price in the country of origin in excess of R 1,900 (it is not necessary to use a motorcar in this latter category outside South A f r i c a ). Import permits are issued free ly in respect of the CKD material required for commercial vehicles and in respect of those passenger cars that have an approved local content program. Import permits for other cars or CKD material for such other cars are 484 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA subject to quotas based on previous sales. Import permits for com- merical vehicles are issued on a sales replacement basis. (4) Goods that require import permits and for which annual quotas are granted to ind iv idual importers. These goods include (a) so-called general merchand ise, which at present includes a number of consumer goods, office machines, airplanes, cameras and photographic materials, and cotton and synthetic f ibe r s; (b) pintables, novelty tables, juke boxes, coin-operated machines, amusement machines, and television sets, imports of all of wh ich are rarely adm i t ted; and (c) milled rice and textile piece goods. (5) Goods that requ ire specific import permits. These are goods that are available, or for which substitutes f rom domestic sources are adequate, both in quantity and qua l i ty. They include certain consumer goods (ma in ly food) and certain raw materials, such as cement, fer t i l izers, na tural asphalt, ju te fiber, cardboard boxes, and wood. Importers of general merchandise and merchant importers of raw materials wishing to import any of the goods in this group may convert their import permits into specific permits (in which case the goods to be imported are specifically desc r ibed ), provided that the goods to be imported under the specific permit for wh ich application is made f a ll within the same general category as the goods detailed in the original import permit issued. Such ind iv idual licenses may be obtained by the surrender of the original import permits on the basis of R 3 surrendered for R 1 of the specific permit ob ta ined. The first R 5,000 of an importer's total annual quota may be converted into a specific permit for any articles in this category (with three minor specified exceptions) on the basis of R 1 for R 1. In addition, if the goods in this category are imported under rebate of customs du ty, a specific permit is not required and there is no import permit loss by conversion. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon presenta- tion to his bank of the necessary consignment documents (proof of impo r ta t ion ), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents for current invisibles require exchange licenses. For some types of transac t ion, there is no limitation on the amoun t; for others, authority is delegated to the commercial banks to approve paymen ts up to established limits. For current income pay- ments, such as declared dividends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South A f r i c a, approval is given by the au thor ized banks without reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that profits or dividends to be remitted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their remittance does 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA not involve the use of local credit facilities. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresi- dents is freely transferab le to the monetary area of the owner. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membership fees, fam i ly maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tourist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adult and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is another annual basic exchange allocation of R 250 for an adult (R 100 for a child under 12) for travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Rhodesia, Zambia, and Portuguese East and West A f r ica. Applications for larger amounts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South A f r ica may take out freely, as part of the basic travel allowance, the equivalent of R 200 in banknotes, of which South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 100 for travel to Malawi, Portuguese East A f r ica, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or R 20 for travel to other destinations. Foreign visitors leaving South A f r ica within 12 months after arrival may take with them up to R 100 in Reserve Bank notes and any reasonable amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained f rom the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in relatively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtainable overseas, require licenses irrespective of destination (with the exception of exports to Basutoland, Bechuanaland, and Swaziland). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and permits are required for their export to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, protectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. The re-export of imported goods is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered within 6 months f rom the date of shipment and 30 days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry, residents may bring in R 20 in South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes, and nonresidents a reasonable amount. 486 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Capital The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the authorized banks without reference to the South A f r ican Reserve Bank: transfers to nonresidents of the proceeds on maturity of Government, Mun ic ipa l, and Public Utility Stocks and National Savings Certificates, provided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emigrant) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acqu ired a f t er June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nominal value per sha re; transfers to nonresident owners of balances of up to R 50, le ft over f rom the reinvestment of blocked fund s; and transfers of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident beneficiary f rom the proceeds of legacies f rom estates in South A f r i ca that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant fam i l ies whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 t rans fe r red abroad as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, t ran s fe r red; any ba lance exceeding the permissible t rans fe rab le amount is blocked. Prior to June 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Government's issue of three-year nonresident rand bonds ( for emigrants, subscriptions of up to R 30,000 a fam i ly were pe rm i t ted ); this enabled the nonresident to secure the t rans fer of his funds in convertible currencies at off ic ial market rates in three equal annual installments, together with interest at 3% per cent a year. Since June 1964, similar facilities have been available through subscription to five-year t rans fe rab le bonds. The South A f r i c an Reserve Bank may approve transfers of repay- ments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the t ran s fer by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries, of open or loan account balances or undistributed current profits, or for the t ran s fer of any dividends by them provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The physical export of nonresident-owned securities is permitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowances. Foreign exchange accruing to residents f rom capital t rans fe rs and transactions must be surrendered. Outward t ran s fe rs of capital by residents in general require the approval of the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank and are usua l ly not allowed. T rans fe rs by residents for the purchase of South A f r ican (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA for each shareholder, to allow South A f r i c an residents to exercise rights arising f rom existing ho ld ings of shares in fo re ign companies quoted only on fore ign stock exchanges ), although South A f r i c an stockbrokers may engage in arb i trage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net ou tf low of exchange. Applica- tions by South A f r i c an residents to retain in, or t ran s fer to, Ma law i, Rhodesia, Zambia, and the ne ighbor ing Portuguese territories funds for bona fide long-term investment in spec if ic development projects or for the expansion of existing South A f r i c an owned or controlled projects are considered by the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits; but such applications are scrutinized, in part to prevent remittances to those areas f rom being used as a first step in the onward t rans fer of capital to other countries. For three years a f ter their arr ival in South A f r i c a, imm igran ts may dispose of their foreign assets held abroad and also invest in South A f r i c an securities abroad. However, the proceeds f rom the sale of all securities brought in by imm igran ts are b locked; the blocking is norma l ly for at least three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enab le the immigrant to set up a home and to meet current living expenses. Changes during 1965 April 28. Spanish pesetas and Japanese yen were designated as specified currencies. July 21. The arbitrage fac i l i t ies open to nonresidents for so-called switch transactions in shares were restricted in scope. July 21. The normal capital repayments by "dying" mines to non- residents, in regular periodic installments, that au thor ized banks could permit without reference to the Reserve Bank were subjected to a limit of 10 per cent of the nom inal value, per share, in any one year. July 21. The regulation au tho r iz ing exchange to be provided to enable residents to exercise rights arising f rom existing holdings of shares in fo re ign companies was modified to limit the value of the rights eligible for this privilege to R 2,000 for each shareholder, and to exclude f rom eligibility shares of fore ign companies quoted not only on a foreign but also on a South A f r i c an stock exchange. August 16. The basis for control of imports of raw materials for industry was reduced f rom six months' consumption to four months' consumption. Less essential industries relying on a large proportion of raw materials would be held in 1965 to the 1964 level of importation. August 25. It was announced that there would be no third round issue of import permits for 1965. A number of commodities ( inc lud ing 488 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA cotton, synthetic fibers, airplanes, office machines, and photographic supplies) previously on the f r ee list required import permits. Certain commodities that could previously be imported under general import permits ( inc lud ing syn the t ic rubber, some optical goods, foods, and textile items) required specific import permits. The ratio at which general import permits could be exchanged for import permits for specific commodities was modified f rom R 2 for R 1 to R 3 for R 1. September 25. The permission given to authorized dealers to t rans fe r, without re fe rence to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank, the proceeds of legacies up to R 20,000 to nonresident beneficiaries was revoked for estates in South A f r i ca that held fo re ign assets. November 18. As a consequence of the exclusion of Rhodesia f rom the Sterling Area, all existing Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts conducted under Rhodes ian addresses were redesignated as Rhodesian Accounts. Settlements between South A f r i ca and Rhodesia norma l ly had to be made through Rhodes ian Accounts. They could be credited with all authorized payments by South A f r i c an residents; with t ran s fe rs f rom Nonres ident Sterling Area Accounts, provided that the transac t ion had been approved in the Sterling Area country conce rned; with t ran s fe rs f rom Ex te rnal Accounts in South A f r i c a; with t ran s fe rs f rom other Rhodesian Accoun t s; and with the proceeds f rom the sale to an authorized dealer in South A f r i ca of Rhodesian currency, any specified currency, or the cu r rency of any coun try in the Sterling Area other than South A f r i c a. They could be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other paymen ts due by Rhodesian residents to South A f r i c an res iden ts; for t rans fe rs to other Rhodesian Accounts in South A f r i ca for any pu rpose; and for w i thd rawa ls by the account holder wh i le temporar i ly resident in South A f r i c a. A ll me rchan t ing t ransac t ions invo lv ing Rhodesia had to be re fe r red to the South A f r i c an Reserve Bank. December 2. The in i t ial import permit allocation for 1966 was announced in respect of Group B consumer goods, textile piece goods imported by merchan ts, raw materials (o ther than textile piece goods, timber, and fe r t i l ize r s) imported by me rchan ts, agr icu l tural wheeled tractors, rice, and p lant and equipment items costing not more than R 1,000 (US$1,400) f .o .b. each. The in i t ial allocations for 1966 would generally be the same as the in i t ial allocations for 1965. As stocks of p lant and equipment had now been reduced to a satisfactory level, it was proposed to grant relatively small stock permits for impo r t ing goods that cost ind iv idua l ly more than R 1,000 and less than R 50,000 f.o.b. For goods supplied to the private sector, such stock permits would be ca lcu la ted on the basis of 25 per cent of the va lue of the merchant's 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA imports dur ing the calendar year 1964, less 50 per cent of the in-store cost of all unsold and undelivered items of plant and equipment on November 1,1965. It was also stated that it was necessary now to establish a basis for importing those consumer goods wh ich, un t il recently, could be imported without permits, as well as those goods in Group A for wh ich, although they were under import control, permits were granted free ly. It had been decided to deal w i th both these groups as one and to calculate the in i t ial 1966 allocations for these items on the basis of 50 per cent of the ind iv idual importer's ac tual imports of these goods during the calendar year 1964. No change would be made regard ing motor veh ic les; permits for imports of raw materials by m anu f a c tu r e rs for their own use would continue to be issued on the basis of f o ur months' consump t ion; and the arrangements for cap i tal equipment costing more than R 50,000 f.o.b. would also remain unchanged. These items of equipment would continue to be licensed on the basis of requirements for end-use. December 9. Rhodesian Accounts could be credited with the proceeds of the sale of a Sterling Area currency (o ther than that of South A f r i c a) only when the transac t ion had been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned. Rhodesian Accoun ts could be debited f ree ly for the cost of purchases of Rhodesian currency in South A f r i c a. December 10. An amended import f ree list was published. Initial permit allocations for 1966 were announced. Consumer goods were listed in two categories, A and B. 490 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The par value is Spanish Pesetas 60.00 = US$1. The official limits are Ptas 59.55 buying, and Ptas 60.45 selling, per US$1. Market rates for specified cu r renc ie sl admitted to the exchange market vary between limits wh ich result f rom combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Spain and such limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. Purchases and sales of clearing currencies are centralized in the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute ( IEME ), which publishes the rates at wh ich it settles the transactions it carries out direct and the rate applicable to banknotes. These rates are based on the rates of the previous week. Authorized banks are allowed to operate in fore ign markets for spot transactions and forward transactions for up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Me l i l la, and the Spanish towns and provinces in A f r i ca constitute a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Commerce and, on a techn ical administrative level, by the IEME and the General Department of Foreign Trade —both in the Ministry of Commerce —and by au thor ized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchand ise transactions and invisibles other than those with b i la teral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified currency,1 but in practice they are usually made in the currency determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination. Settlements with bilateral payments agreement countries 2 and with Turkey are made th rough agreement accounts expressed in 1In addition to U.S. dollars, these currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Italian lire, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Bulgaria, Republic of Ch ina, Colombia. Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, M au r i t an i a, Mexico, Paraguay, Poland. Ruman ia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Repub l ic, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Spain also has a bilateral paymen ts agreement w i th Morocco requiring payments between the two countries to be made in bilateral d i rhams or bilateral pesetas. 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN U.S. dollars. Balances on the account with Turkey are settled monthly in convertible exchange. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: external accounts in convertible pesetas and external accounts in internal pesetas. External accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any fore ign currencies listed in that marke t; with authorized current and capital payments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or specified fore ign currencies; with transfers f rom other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; and with interest received on balances held on these accounts. They may be debited for the purchase of foreign currencies (including foreign banknotes) listed in the Spanish exchange ma rke t; for payments for Spanish exports; for investments in Spa in; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of payment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited with pensions, salaries, profits, and dividends obtained by the account holder and not otherwise t rans fe rab le; with receipts f rom the National Lottery; and with interest received on balances held on these accounts. They may be debited to pay the personal expenses of the account holder in Spain, and for the purchase of government bonds and of fixed-interest- bearing stocks issued by Spanish public corporations. They may also be debited for the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not represent investments for com- mercial, industrial, or agricultural purposes; country properties so purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of unirrigated land. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. Imports and Import Payments All imports require either an import license or an "import declara- tion" issued by the General Department of Foreign Trade. "Import declarations" are issued free ly for goods (mostly raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) included in an import free list that applies to most countries with which Spain has no bilateral payments agreement.3 All other imports require licenses. 8 The countries to which the import free list applies are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, 492 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Licenses for certain imports from Czechoslovakia are issued freely. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the f ree list applies. Exchange in the appropriate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted free ly. Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of non- residents on account of current invisibles are subject to authorization, mainly for the purpose of checking capital transactions. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made free ly. For a large propor- tion of invisibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the request is supported by appropriate docu- ments. For certain services transfers may be made freely up to a pre- established amount; for transfers which exceed that amount, licenses are granted liberally. Holders of Spanish securities (excluding securities issued by private companies acquired through direct subscription) acquired af ter July 27, 1959 may free ly t rans fer abroad accrued interest, dividends, and proceeds f rom the disposal of subscription r igh ts; the securities must have been purchased with convertible pesetas or with pesetas result- ing f rom the sale of fore ign exchange quoted in the Spanish foreign exchange market. Profits and dividends on direct investments made a f ter July 27,1959 for the modernization, expansion, or establishment of Spanish enterprises are also transferred abroad without restriction. Income f rom all investments made before July 28, 1959 (wh ich had to be approved on an individual basis) may be transferred without restriction to holders in any country if the income has accrued after July 27, 1959; transfers abroad of income accrued before July 28, 1959 and held in external accounts in internal pesetas are authorized freely by the IEME. A general license permits the reinsurance abroad of risks insured in Spain with Spanish firms or with foreign insurance companies operating in Spain. Other insurance contracts abroad may not be concluded, except where they concern exports and imports of goods. Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and their overseas territories; and Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bolivia, Braz i l, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central A f r ican Repub l ic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Congo (B razzav i l le ), Democratic Republic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Dahomey, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwa i t, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, Maur i tan ia, New Zea land, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan. Panama, Peru. Philippines, Rhodesia, Senegal, Sierra Leone. South A f r ica, Sudan, Tanzania, Tha i land, Trinidad and Tobago, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, United States, Upper Vo l ta, Venezue la, Viet-Nam, and Zamb ia. 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN There is a basic tourist exchange allowance of Ptas 42,000 a person for each trip. The authorized banks are also permitted to sell the equivalent of Ptas 1,500 a day for business trips, up to the equivalent of Ptas 75,000 a person for each trip. For longer business trips, the bank must apply to the IEME for additional exchange, which is granted liberally for this purpose. Travelers may take with them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to prior licensing by the General Department of Foreign Trade. Exports to all destinations of olives for oil production are suspended, while other types of olives may be exported freely. Exports of citrus f ru it to EEC countries and the United Kingdom are subject to weekly quotas established at the request of the exporters themselves in view of the EEC measures concerning reference prices. With very few exceptions, licenses for other exports are granted freely. All export proceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through authorized banks. Travelers may bring in a maximum of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign capital participation is permitted freely in most Spanish industries, as specified in a decree of April 18, 1963. In certain other industries, foreign investment of up to 50 per cent of the capital of the enterprise is permitted free ly, and that which exceeds 50 per cent requires the authorization of the Council of Ministers. Foreign invest- ment is not permitted in Spanish enterprises whose activity is directly connected with national defense, public information, and certain public services. New investment, both foreign and Spanish, for the establishment of Spanish enterprises in a large number of specified sectors that are under the jur isd ic t ion of the Ministries of Industry and Agriculture is free from control, provided that certain m in imum conditions are met; these conditions relate mainly to the size of the enterprise and its potential output. Investment in existing enterprises in these sectors is permitted freely even if the m in imum conditions are not fu l f i l led. All investment in a few specified industrial and agricultural sectors requires prior authorization by the Government; investment in all other industrial and agricultural sectors and in the tourist sector is free. 494 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Foreign investment for the purpose of modernizing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enterprises may be effected either by transferr ing currencies that are negotiable in the Madrid exchange market, by using convertible pesetas, by bringing in capital goods, by reinvesting profits or capital t rans fe rab le under the Foreign Investment Law, or by pro- viding know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, f rom the liquidation of foreign direct investments made af ter July 27, 1959 for the purpose of establishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Transfers abroad of pr inc ipal of investments made by nonresidents be fo re Ju ly 28, 1959 are subject to prior authoriza- tion by the IEME; such au thor iza t ion is rarely given. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies, as specified in Decree No. 701 of April 18, 1963 (including investment trusts but excluding those companies whose activity is directly con- nected with national defense, public in fo rma t ion, and certain public services), are permitted free ly. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either with convertible pesetas or with pesetas resulting f rom the conversion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange market. Proceeds, including capital gains, f rom the liquida- tion of such shares acquired a f ter July 27, 1959 may be transferred abroad at any time, or used for fu r ther purchases of shares. The above applies also to bonds and other fixed-income securities representing debts of Spanish companies; there is no limit on bond holdings. Pro- ceeds obtained f rom the sale of nonresident holdings of shares of Spanish companies and other Spanish securities acquired before July 28, 1959 may be used to purchase other Spanish securities, but may not be t rans fe r red abroad without prior authorization by the IEME; such authorization is rarely given. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresidents is free ly permitted if financed with pesetas derived f rom convertible currencies or from balances in convertible peseta accounts. The IEME has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document cer t ify ing that he owns such pesetas;, this is the only requirement for official registration of the change in ownership. Certain investments in real estate may also be financed f rom external accounts in internal pesetas (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Outward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same line of business are granted rather liberally, provided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes participation in foreign enterprises. Other direct investments are subject to more severe restrictions. Port- 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN fo l io investments by all residents and purchases of real estate abroad by private persons are severely restricted. Approval of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents7 requests to make direct investments abroad. Suppliers' credits by Spanish residents to nonresidents require au thor iza t ion; such authorization accompanies the export license. Before issuing the license, the IEME may be consulted about the granting of the credit. There has been no experience with the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonresidents, nor with short-term credits by Spanish banks to nonresidents. Credits to nonresidents for transactions within Spain may, however, be authorized by the IEME. For t rans fe rs abroad of inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally when small amounts are involved. Changes during 1965 January 19. The limit on the amount of minor transfers abroad that may be made free ly was raised f rom Ptas 2,000 to Ptas 5,000. February 1. The list of global import quotas for 1965 was published. The number of quotas was reduced f r om 68 to 66, some items hav ing been transferred earlier to the f ree list. The total value of global quotas amounted to US$137.8 million, an increase of US$11.1 million over the 1964 value. March'9. A new law entered into effect governing contracts with nonresidents relating to patents, licensing arrangements, technical assistance, distributorships, and capital participation. March 9. The fo l low ing countries were added to the list of those to which the import free list applies: Cameroon, Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, Congo (B r a z z av i l l e ), Costa Rica, Dahomey, Gabon, Indonesia, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jama ica, Kenya, Kuwait, Malagasy Republic, Malawi, Malta, Niger, Senegal, Tanzan ia, Togo, Uganda, Upper Volta, and Zambia. March 30. Gold bullion and coins requisitioned in 1937 were returned to the owners. April 2. Liberalization was extended for the first time to certain imports f rom Czechoslovakia. May 22. A tenth list of liberalized imports was published. It included 80 headings of the customs tar iff or their parts. Most items on the list were freed immediately and the rest were to be liberalized either on November 1,1965 or on January 1,1966. 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN June 14- T rans fe rs to any country of up to 25 per cent of blocked peseta ba lances representing income accrued to nonresidents before July 28, 1959 f rom investments made prior to that date were free ly permitted. September 30. The fo l low ing countries were added to the list of those to wh ich the import f ree list applies: Algeria, Bolivia, Burund i, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Gambia, Lebanon, Philip- pines, and Sudan. October 3. Restrictions were imposed on exports to all destinations of olives for oil production. November 2. Transfers to any country of the remaining 75 per cent of blocked peseta balances represen t ing income to nonresidents accrued before Ju ly 28, 1959 were au thor ized by the IEME (see June 14, above ). November 29. It was announced that over the next ten years Spain would make the equivalent of US$1 billion ava i lab le to Latin American countries for development purposes. The aid program would be implemented mainly through bilateral trade agreements. December 1. Exports of citrus f ru it to EEC countries and the United Kingdom were put under quo ta; the size of the weekly quotas would depend on the re la t ionsh ip between market prices and the EEC re fe rence price. 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Sudanese Pound 1 = US$2.87156. Off ic ial rates for transactions in sterling are fixed by the Bank of Sudan, whose rates for transactions with au thor ized banks and the Government are LSd 0.974 buying, and LSd 0.976 selling, per £ stg. 1. The banks deal with the public at rates between LSd 0.9715 buying, and LSd 0.9785 selling, per £ stg. 1. Off ic ial rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed da i ly by the Bank of Sudan ( the cen tral b ank) and are based on London market rates. The authorized banks quote their own rates for other currencies, based on market quotations in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by au thor ized banks. Licensing of imports and exports is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce, Indus- try, Supply, and Cooperation, but all licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities or by the authorized banks under the powers delegated to them. Prescription of Currency Transactions with b i la teral coun t r i e sx are normally settled in Sudanese pounds through the re levant B i la te ral Accoun t; however, most noncomme rc ial invisibles except those payab le to the United A rab Republic have to be settled outside these accounts. Payments to all other countries and monetary areas ( the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any fore ign cu r r en cy; receipts f rom the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds f rom any Convertible Account or in any convertible or externally convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries other than b i la te ral countries may main- tain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated Convertible Accounts; these are exchangeable into any fo re ign currency. Bilateral Accounts are used for most transac t ions with countries with which the Sudan has bilateral payments agreements.1 1The Sudan has bilateral payments agreements w i th Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Ind ia, Poland, and the United Arab Republic. Payments to the United Arab Republic for Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible currencies, and all proceeds f rom invisibles from the United Arab Republic must be received in convertible currencies. 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined by former residents; earnings accruing on these accounts may be transferred in reasonable amounts^ and balances, wh ich are not negotiable, may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports are divided into three categories: (1) Imports not subject to licensing, comprising goods imported directly by the Government, trade samples, books, and goods imported by parcel post or air f re igh t, the value of wh ich does not exceed LSd 2, or, for g i f ts, LSd 5. (2) Imports on an open general license list, wh ich comprises a wide range of essential goods, inc lud ing raw materials and some capital and consumer goods. The open general license is designed to permit imports of these goods f ree ly f rom any source; for tea, however, the open general license applies only to Ma in land Ch ina, East A f r i c a, and India. (3) Imports subject to ind iv idual licensing. For goods that require ind iv idual licensing, import licenses must be obtained f rom the M in is try of Commerce and validated by the Exchange Control Depar tment of the central bank or by an authorized bank. For goods on the open general license list, importers must register their import transactions with the Ministry of Commerce, before entering into firm contracts with fo re ign suppliers; the registration fo rm must be validated by the cen tral bank or an authorized bank. The Ministry of Commerce checks to see that prices are reasonable, while the central bank or commercial bank checks the observance of the prescription of currency requirements and the terms of payment. Imports f r om Hong Kong, Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r i ca are prohibited. If payment is made under a letter of credit, the bank must require a 40 per cent cash margin upon its establishment. In practice, the granting of foreign exchange appropriate to the country of origin of the goods is au toma t ic if a commodity is on open general license or if an ind iv idual license has been granted. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles requ ire licenses. Remittances are permitted for f am i ly ma in tenance (up to LSd 500 a person a y e a r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 720 a student a y e a r ), and for certain other purposes. Travel allowances for tourism and other purposes are authorized up to the equ iva lent of LSd 100 for each adult, and LSd 25 for each ch i ld, annua l ly. Salaried fore ign na t iona ls not permanently 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN resident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to the country of their nationality. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted free ly upon presentation of the%requ ired documents. Income accruing to emigrants f rom blocked assets in the Sudan ( inc lud ing income f rom blocked accounts) may be remitted up to LSd 1,500 a year. Travelers may not take out of the Sudan more than LSd 10 in Sudanese currency; pilgrims may not export Sudanese banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports from the Sudan are subject to licensing (mainly to ensure the surrender of the exchange proceeds) and to certain regulations governing the credit terms that can be extended to foreign buyers. Export licensing is l ibera l; only products in short supply are subject to restrictive licensing. The proceeds of exports must be repatriated and surrendered through an authorized bank within six months a f ter export. Exports on credit are limited by the six-month surrender requirement, as well as by specific regulations governing consignment sales. Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to authorized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requirements. Travelers entering the Sudan may bring in LSd 10 in Sudanese currency and any amount in notes and coins of other countries permitted by their regulations to be taken out of those countries; pilgrims, however, are not permitted to import Sudanese banknotes. Capital Under a law for the encouragement of fore ign investment, incoming foreign capital for industrial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese nationality may on departure t rans fer up to the equivalent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon emigration f rom the Sudan, resident foreigners may t rans fer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Changes during 1965 January 30. A new bilateral payments agreement with the United A rab Republic was signed. 500 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN October 22. A bilateral payments agreement with India was signed. December 15. Import licenses were no longer issued for goods f rom Hong Kong, save in exceptional cases involving raw materials for Sudanese industry unob ta inab le elsewhere. December 15. Imports f rom and exports to Rhodesia were prohibited. 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System The par value is Surinam Guilders 1.88585 = US$1. The official rates are Sur. f. 1.87 buying, and Sur. f. 1.90 selling, per US$1. The rates for other currencies are based on the quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of those currencies. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange for certain current transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements must, in general, be made in convertible currencies;1 payments to and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Netherlands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Payments to and f rom the U.S.S.R. must be made through bilateral accounts in Nether- lands guilders kept with authorized banks in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open and hold accounts in foreign currency with domestic banks. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for protective reasons. Some commodities are subject to import quotas; other imports are licensed freely. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange being made available upon presentation of the license. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The com- mercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item a month on account of certain services (advertising expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, e tc . ); up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remitter in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's 1In the Surinam regulations, these are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, British West Indian dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 502 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM receipt of gifts f rom Surinam residents; and up to Sur. f. 450-600 a month for the support of the remitter's own f am i ly in the Ne the r lands or the Netherlands Antilles ( f am i ly remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, wh ich is granted upon app l ica t ion). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip, the amount depending on the destination. Travelers may take out a maximum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income f rom other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application supported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Control Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for gold, exports of local products do not require licenses, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the proceeds within six months to an authorized bank. A certain type of local timber used in the manu fac tu re of plywood and particle board may be exported only in special circumstances. All re-exports require a license. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in fo re ign currency without limit, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic currency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign currency in excess of the equiva- lent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A declaration of the Foreign Exchange Control Board in 1960 provides for the t rans fer abroad of capital proceeds f rom the sale to residents or the liquidation of fu l ly or partly foreign-owned companies or other fo rms of enterprise. It also provides for the t rans fer of profits. An Investment Law passed on February 3, 1960 provides for additional incentives to private fore ign investment in Surinam. Taxable earnings (d iv idends) must be t rans fe r red within a period of three years; otherwise, they become part of the firm's work ing capital and may only be t r a n s f e r r ed in annual quotas of 20 per cent. Licenses are granted on application for transfers abroad f rom a deceased's estate, up to a maximum of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000, fu r ther annual t rans fe rs above the max imum of Sur. f. 25,000 are permitted so as to spread them over a period not 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM exceeding ten years. The repatriation of personal assets belonging to departing persons, inc lud ing emigrants, is permitted up to specified amounts. Transfers for investment in fore ign securities or real estate by residents are not permitted, although exceptions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered that Surinam interests will benefit. Changes during 1965 January 1. The amounts up to which remittances for the support or education of members of the remitter's own f am i ly could be made freely were changed f rom Sur. f. 375-750 to Sur. f. 450-600 a month. Such remittances could no longer be made without a special license to countries other than the Netherlands or the Netherlands Antilles. January 1. The general license permitting residents to make payments up to Sur. f. 100 an item for certain services was replaced by a general license permitting these t rans fe rs up to Sur. f. 100 an item a month. The general license permitting residents to make payments up to Sur. f. 100 an item for imports of books, magazines, newspapers, sheet music, etc., was replaced by a general license permitting these payments up to Sur. f. 100 a month an item. The general license permitting residents to t rans fer up to Sur. f. 300 a year for gifts was replaced by a general license limiting this right to remitters and beneficiaries who are physical persons and to beneficiaries of legal age receiving not more than Sur. f. 300 a year in g if ts f rom Surinam residents. March 31. Subject to prior approval by the Minister of Economic Affa irs, residents could in specified countries sell (out of their own holdings) or purchase Surinam corporate shares designated as nego- tiable by a special license of the Foreign Exchange Control Board; these countries were Belgium, Canada, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, the United Kingdom, and the United States. 504 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange System The par value is Swedish Kroner 5.17321 = US$1. The Sveriges Riksbank is ready to carry out transactions in U.S. dollars with author- ized ("exchange") banks at the marg inal rates, namely, SKr 5.135 buying, and SKr 5.2125 selling, per US$1. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Practically all exchange transactions must be carried out by or through authorized banks. For the guidance of authorized banks and without any commitment on its part, the Riksbank has informed the banks of marginal rates for 13 currencies,1 based upon the above marg inal rates for the U.S. dollar and the limits in fo rce in the country of the other currency concerned. In transactions in these cur- rencies with the public, the authorized banks apply buying and selling rates, the average of which must lie within the established marg inal limits. The d i f fe rence between the buy ing and selling rates applied by authorized banks may not exceed that prescribed by the Riksbank for each of the currencies in question. Authorized banks may buy f rom and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase, spot, f rom foreign banks and other nonresidents fore ign currencies against any fore ign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, b e low ). They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents forward exchange transactions covering current payments and authorized payments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, fre igh t, and charter services, (2) 12 months in respect of payments for imports, f re igh t, and charter services, and (3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may conclude fo rwa rd transactions with other authorized banks or, under certain conditions, with foreign banks. Forward market rates are le ft to the interplay of market forces. Sweden accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as f rom February 15,1961. 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkas, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges Riksbank through its Exchange Control Board.2 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the R iksbank. Authorized banks and some other au thor ized agencies implement the exchange control regulations. All current payments are exempt f rom exchange control, provided that they are made through the intermediary of an authorized bank in accordance with the currency prescriptions issued by the Riksbank. The authorized banks have been given power to approve various payments that are still sub ject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foods tu f fs, wh ich are issued by the National Agricultural Marketing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of Eastern Germany, with which there is a privately concluded compensation agreement, must be made by credit- ing kronor to a Special Account related to that country. Receipts f rom Eastern Germany may be accepted in any convertible currency or in kronor through the Special Account of that country or through any Regular Account. Payments to residents of other countries may be made in any fore ign currency or by crediting kronor to any non- resident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Receipts f rom other countries may be accepted in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor debited to any Regular Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restricted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts are held by residents of all countries except Eastern Germany. Regular Accounts may be credited with transfers f rom other Regular Accounts, with authorized payments to countries other than Eastern Germany by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of 2 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and their alternates are appointed by the Government; the other members and their alternates are appointed by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges Riksbank. 506 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Sweden, and they may be exchanged into any foreign currency. The crediting of Regular Accounts with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies or with transfers f rom other Regular Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances. Restricted Accounts are held ma in ly by persons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresidents a f ter emigrating f rom that country. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings f rom, assets in Sweden, and proceeds f rom sales of assets in Sweden, owned by account holders, and funds transferred f rom abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for pay- ments in Sweden for maintenance expenses of the account holder and his f am i l y; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other off ic ial charges; and expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and g if ts to, and the support o f, persons domiciled in Sweden. Foreign Exchange Accounts B are in fore ign currencies. Such accounts may be credited with authorized payments in fore ign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued interest. Ba lances on such accounts may be used for mak ing au thor ized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers f rom abroad of fore ign currencies, or t rans fe rs from Regular Accounts or f rom other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for t rans fe rs to any nonresident account. Ba lances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other fo re ign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and centers of agr icu l tural credit associations. These accounts may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and with accrued interest; they may be used for withdrawals in kronor in Sweden. Imports and Import Payments With the main exception of a few agr icu l tural and fishery products, practically all goods are f ree f rom quan t i ta t ive restriction and import licensing when imported f rom countries other than (1) Japan, the Bonin Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and certain other Pac if ic islands under U.S. control, and (2) A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, Ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslo- 3 Residents may also maintain Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th au tho r ized receipts in foreign currencies, and be debited for authorized payments in foreign currencies. 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Most imports f rom coun- tries in the second group, except Eastern Germany, are also liberalized. All imports f rom Japan require licenses; these are in principle issued freely, except for a few specified commodities. Technically, the liberal- ization of agricultural commodities is governed by "positive" liberaliza- tion lists; for other commodities, the exceptions to the liberalization regime are included in two "negative" lists. Imports not covered by the liberalization measures require individual licenses, some of wh ich are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Payments for imports, including normal advance payments, may, as current payments, be made without permission through authorized banks and without the forma l i ty of presenting an import license. If the conditions specified for current payments (see section on Payments for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange control permit is required. Payments for Invisibles Exchange control regulations define and list those categories of pay- ments abroad which are considered as current payments. Persons domiciled in Sweden may make such payments without restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments must be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital payments are not made in the guise of current payments. Payments not exceeding the equivalent of SKr 500 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. For tourism, recreational travel, or study abroad, residents may acquire and take out freely up to SKr 6,000 a trip in Swedish and foreign banknotes and coins and other means of payment; applications for additional amounts must be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal treatment. Authorized banks and other authorized agen- cies may allocate to residents, without restriction, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonresidents leaving Sweden may export free ly Swedish and foreign banknotes and other means of payment which they brought into, or duly acquired in, the country. No traveler may, however, without specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are exempt f rom license if payment is to be received in conformity with the general regulations (see section on Prescription 508 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN of Currency, abov e ); &11 exports to Eastern Germany, however, require licenses. Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a foreign currency account with a Swedish author- ized bank and used by the holder to make authorized payments abroad, or they may be sold to an authorized bank against Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same treatment as those from exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Each person entering Sweden may bring in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish banknotes and coins, and unlimited amounts of other means of payment. Capital Direct investment abroad by Swedish residents requires individual authorization, which normally is granted. Residents may, on applica- tion, transfer capital abroad to purchase, for recreational purposes, real estate valued at no more than SKr 75,000. A Swedish resident when emigrating is, on application, permitted to transfer up to SKr 100,000; a f ter one calendar year, he will normally be permitted to transfer the remainder of his assets. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts from abroad on account of l i fe, pension, and annuity contracts; contractual amortiza- tion of their investments; the sale of foreign securities, real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; g i f t s; and inheritances. Residents can accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad only upon approval f rom the Riksbank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other then normal suppliers' credit f rom nonresidents must receive authorization to do so; each case is considered on its merits. In principle, permission is not granted for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents. Foreign direct investments in Sweden require authorization, which norma l ly is given. Liquidation of such investments and the transfer of proceeds, inc lud ing appreciation, require authorization, which always is given. Investment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell foreign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securi- ties by residents f rom nonresidents requires authorization. As a rule, 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN such authorization is not granted unless the purchase is made with proceeds f rom the sale by the purchaser to a nonresident of other foreign securities expressed in foreign currencies (sw i tch ing), and is made within six months of that sale. Residents may buy foreign securi- ties from other residents without authorization. Residents are permitted to purchase abroad Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an aff idav it can be produced showing either (1) that at no time since January 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acquired with the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities f rom a person domiciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, under general authoriza- tion, hand le such purchases without limitation. They may also handle purchases by nonresidents of Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the fo rm of other similar securities (sw i tches), provided that (1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the aforementioned affidavit requirements are me t; (3) fore ign holdings of bonds are not exchanged for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase f rom, and the date of the sale to, the foreign party. Changes during 1965 July 1. The bilateral payments agreements with Rumania and the U.S.S.R. were terminated. July 7. The distinction between bilateral and convertible currencies was abolished. The Bilateral Account for Eastern Germany was redesignated as a Special Account. All Convertible Accounts were redesignated as Regular Accounts. October 1. The import of a number of additional commodities from the following countries was l ibera l ized: A lban ia, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R. 510 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND *• 2 Exchange Rate System is established at 6% io The gold content of the Swiss Franc ( = 0.20322. . .) gram of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank maintains the U.S. dollar rate in a f ree market between limits of Sw F 4.295 buying, and Sw F 4.45 selling, per US$1. The f ree market rate on December 31, 1965 was Sw F 4.3185 per US$1. Market rates for other currencies vary between limits wh ich result f rom comb in ing the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by Switzerland and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Exchange is controlled in respect of most transactions with eight countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of wh ich Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's payments with seven countries or monetary areas;3 Switzerland also controls its payments with one other.4 In accordance with the provisions of several of these agreements, off ic ial rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other countries), as well as certain settlements involving Egyptian pounds which represent compensation for na t iona l iza t ion of Swiss property in the United Arab Republic, may be made f ree ly at f ree market rates. Foreign banknotes are negotiated free ly in Switzerland at rates deter- mined by the interplay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Principality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for the duration of the treaty of Ma rch 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Principality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory.5 Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a ru le, 1 Switzerland is not a member of the International Monetary Fund. 2 In view of a change that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as .at that date. 3 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rum an i a, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. * Eastern Germany, including East Berlin. 5 For purposes of capital control, however, certain jur id ical persons or companies domiciled in the Principality of Liechtenstein are considered as nonresidents. 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the executive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the operative part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments (see section on Exchange Ra te System, above) are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and/or by the Swiss regulations. Settlements with countries in this sector are made in Swiss f r an c s; however, certain settlements with the United Arab Republic may be made in Egyptian pounds on Swiss-held B Accounts, and certain other settlements may be made in Egyptian pounds through a special account maintained by the Swiss Compensa- tion Office at the Central Bank of Egypt. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to regulations involving prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts related to the sector of controlled payments may be grouped as follows: (1) accounts related to Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentral- ized" accounts, comprising those which may be held with the Swiss National Bank and with authorized banks in Switzerland. The accounts of the second group are of two kinds: the accounts of Eastern Germany, which are transferable only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of the United A rab Republic, which are subject to special treatment. Nonresident accounts concerned with transactions outside the sector of controlled payments —mainly those related to countries not listed above —may be transferred free ly among themselves. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia require a license. With a few exceptions, imports into Switzerland f rom other countries may be made f ree ly; import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agricultural products. Settlements are made automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., 512 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports f rom all other countries may be made f ree ly through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made f r e e l y; however, payments to Eastern Germany ( inc lud ing East Berlin) and countries with which Switzerland has bilateral payments agreements are controlled. The export of Swiss and fo re ign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export ( inc lud ing re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through ind iv idual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. All re-exports of goods of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Export proceeds received through the sector of controlled payments are con- verted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss f rancs in observance of the existing regulations. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and fore ign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital f rom countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of con- trolled payments; transfers of capital to such countries do not require licenses. Transfers of capital to and f rom other countries may be made freely, with the exception of certain outgoing transfers exceeding Sw F 5 million each, wh ich require permission. The use of foreign funds 6 in Switzerland is subject to certain restric- tions. Banks and other financial institutions must not pay any interest on foreign funds credited to accounts in Swiss f rancs since January 1, 1964, with the exception of balances of central banks, specified savings deposits up to Sw F 20,000, and unused portions of proceeds f rom issues of securities in Switzerland and of credits obtained from 6 Funds owned (1) by physical persons of foreign nationality domiciled in a country outside Switzerland other than Liechtenstein, (2) by juridical persons or companies having their principal office in a country outside Switzerland other than Liechtenstein, or (3) by certain juridical persons or companies domiciled in Liechtenstein. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Swiss banks. The equivalent of balances in Swiss f rancs held by non- residents (savings and deposit accounts in excess of Sw F 20,000 and all other deposits) must be deposited in a blocked account with the Swiss National Bank, to the extent that such balances have not been offset by bank investment abroad in fore ign currencies. Interest may, how- ever, be paid on balances established before Janua ry 1, 1964. Banks and other institutions or persons engaged in the investment of capital may not invest in Swiss real estate and mortgages on behalf of non- residents. Purchases of securities in Switzerland by nonresidents are limited to certain securities listed by the Swiss National Bank, such as shares of Swiss holding companies and certificates of investment trusts whose assets are invested outside Switzerland to the extent of at least 80 per cent. Foreign residents are f ree to exercise subscription rights on Swiss shares that they own. A bank may sell Swiss securities to nonresidents dur ing any month up to the amount of that bank's purchases of such securities f rom nonresidents du r ing the same month. Purchases by nonresidents of fore ign shares quoted in Switzerland and of fore ign bonds issued in Swiss f r an cs are f ree of restriction. Changes during 1965 December 17. The funds held by the Reserve Bank of Rhodesia at the Swiss National Bank were blocked until fu r ther notice. All imports f rom Rhodesia required an import l icense; licenses would not be granted in excess of the normal volume of imports in recent years. Exports of arms to Rhodesia and the re-export of goods of Rhodesian origin were prohibited. NOTE.—The following change took p lace in 1966: January 1. With certain exceptions, Liechtenstein was assimilated with Swiss territory for the purpose of the Swiss regulations concerning the treatment of foreign funds. The fo l low ing residents of Liechtenstein were no longer considered as nonresidents: (1) physical persons domiciled in the Principality and acting on their own b e h a l f; (2) banks having their principal office in Liechtenstein; and (3) all other jur id ical persons or companies domiciled in the Principality and acting on their own beha l f, provided that they submitted a certificate issued by the competent Liechtenstein Government agency to the effect that they were considered Liechtenstein residents in the sense of Liechten- stein's legislation of June 16, 1965 concerning financial markets and credit. 514 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND The fo l low ing ju r id ical persons or companies domiciled in Liechten- stein continued to be considered as nonresidents: (1) those controlled by physical or ju r id ical persons domiciled outside Liechtenstein or Switzerland; (2) those financed mainly by nonresidents; (3) those appearing to favor nonresidents; and (4) those not hav ing a commercial or industrial establishment in the Principality. 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by Syria with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange markets, the off ic ial or "export exchange" market and the free or "parallel" market with a fluctuating rate which is pegged from time to time. On December 31, 1965, the official rates were LS 3.80 buying, LS 3.82 selling, per US$1, and the free market rates were LS 4.0158 buying, and LS 4.0358 selling, per US$1. The free market rate applies to all private imports f rom neighboring countries x and Lebanon; imports of certain luxury goods f rom any country; all private invisibles except those related to trade settled through the official market, and remittances for study abroad; exports to neighboring countries of items other than ma jor expo r t s ;2 and all private capital movements. The official rate applies to all remaining transactions. Additional effective rates arise f rom two requirements in respect of suppliers' credit and advance payments for imports; both require- ments involve the mixing of off ic ial and free market rates in specified ratios (see section on Imports and Import Payments, be low). The authorized commercial banks charge a commission of %0 of 1 per cent on sales or purchases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Government through the Ministry of Economy, usually on the sug- gestions of the Exchange Office, which works under the general direc- tives of the Council on Money and Credit. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy, and exchange licenses for import payments, invisibles, and capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the off ic ial and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. 1Aden, Afghanistan, Arab Gulf Amirates, Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Yemen. 2 Wheat, barley, corn millet, chick peas, peanuts, lentils, raw wool, raw cotton, and lint. 516 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to prescribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The usual requirement is that proceeds of ma jor exports to all countries except those with which Syria has bilateral payments agreements 3 be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported, if it is an "acceptable" currency,4 or in any other convertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Proceeds f rom exports to neighboring countries may be obtained in the currencies of those countries. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresi- dents 5 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized banks and with payments for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syrian exports to the country of the account holder or, with the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other coun- tries, and for expenses in the Syrian A rab Republic. Transfers abroad f rom these accounts require the prior approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted freely. Nonresidents may also keep accounts in foreign currencies, but only if these accounts result f rom an inflow of capital. Transfers from these accounts are made freely. Provisional nonresident accounts may be opened in the name of non-Syrians in neighboring countries who do not reside permanently in Syria. Imports and Import Payments Many basic commodities (including green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and tractors) are only imported by a state- trading agency, the Import and Export Company of the Public Sector (SIMEX) or, for their own account, by certain off ic ial agencies. A private company has a monopoly over the import of television sets and parts, and another off ic ial agency has a monopoly over the import of all types of consumer goods. Other imports are divided into three main 3 Syria has bilateral payments agreements with Ceylon, Mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, Spain, and U.S.S.R. There is also a temporary payments arrangement with Bulgaria. A bilateral agree- ment with the United Arab Republic is utilized only for transactions concluded prior to separation in October 1961. 4 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, deutsche ma rk, Egyptian pounds, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 5 Residents are defined as including all physical persons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC categories: (1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Pro- hibited List, wh ich comprises some 60 ta r i ff items —mostly goods that are produced domestically, inc lud ing some textile produc ts; (2) imports on a Restrictive List, wh ich comprises some 200 tar iff items of less essential goods wh ich are temporarily not admitted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (3) all imports not included in the above two lists and wh ich are f ree ly au thor ized. All imports f rom Israel are prohibited. V ir tua l ly all imports must be made direct f rom the country of origin, without the intermediary of any firm conducting a business established outside Syria; the Ministry of Economy has the authority, however, to permit certain goods to be imported f rom countries other than the country of origin. Permitted imports require ind iv idual licenses before the p lac ing of orders; licenses are granted f ree ly without any discrimination as to country of origin or quantitative restriction. The licenses are required ma in ly for statistical purposes. Goods included in the Restrictive List may be imported only under certain conditions of domestic need, under special ind iv idual license f rom the Ministry of Economy, and with the prior approval of the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Restrictive or Prohibited Lists) f rom Jordan, Lebanon, and Saudi Arab ia are not sub ject to license, in accordance with the bilateral agreements of Syria with these countries. These imports include agr icu l tural commodities, livestock, and some industrial products. Imports f rom other countries with wh ich Syria has b i la teral agreements are not sub ject to any preferen t ial treatment. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, includ- ing raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum products. In addition, there are the fo l low ing taxes on imports wh ich are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for wh ich the ta r i ff rate is more than 1 per cent, (3) a defense tax of 15 per cent of the t a r i f f, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the ta r i f f, (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the ta r i ff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (about 140 ta r i ff items can be imported only through Syrian h a rbo r s ), and (6) an ocean tax of %0 of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries (see footnote 1). Payment for imports may be made by opening letters of credit, time d ra f ts, bills for collection, or by crediting a nonresident account. The importer submits to the authorized commercial banks the import license and the invoice which, in tu rn, are submitted by the banks to the Exchange Office for app rova l; this is granted according to the 518 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC availability of exchange. Import licenses prescribe wh ich exchange market must be used; when a documentary letter of credit is opened, the Exchange Office has the authority to prescribe the use of f ree market exchange even when the import license specifies payment through the o f f ic ial market. A f t er approval is granted, the commercial banks open the letters of credit or accept the bills for collection. All imports f rom the ne ighbor ing countries and Lebanon and some imports of luxury goods f rom any country must be financed through the f ree market. For imports financed through the o f f ic ial market, the Exchange Office distinguishes ad hoc between essential and less essential goods; exchange for the fo rmer is provided promp t ly, wh i le exchange for the latter is granted a f ter a delay of several months. The issuance of authorizations for the purchase of f ree market exchange for certain categories of nonessential imports f rom countries other than neighbor- ing countries is delayed for periods up to 75 days. Importers not receiving suppliers' credit of six months or more must cover 25-50 per cent of their exchange requirements in the f ree market. Importers mak ing advance payments of 25 per cent or more must purchase the exchange for the advance payment in the f r ee market. A limited group of essential imports is subject to a 15 per cent advance deposit; other imports, except imports of luxury goods, are subject to a 40 per cent advance deposit; luxury imports require a 70 per cent advance deposit. The advance deposit is r e fund ed when payment is made for the import. The fo l low ing are exempt f rom the advance import deposit requirements: imports financed with sup- pliers7 credit for at least one y e a r; all f ru i ts and vegetables; certain types of l ives tock; raw ma ter ia ls and other essential goods; imports made by SIMEX; imports financed with the importer's own fore ign exchange; goods imported by firms engaged in development pro jec ts in the Syrian A rab Repub l ic; reimported goods; goods imported in transit that are to be re-exported; imports by d ip loma t ic or consular estab- lishments and UN agencies; samp les; and g i f ts w i thout commercial value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade effec ted at the o f f ic ial rate and for study abroad may be made at the o f f ic ial rate. Commissions due to nonresident intermediaries are non t ran s fe rab le and payab le in Syrian pounds only. The insurance for imports under documen tary credit must be effec ted loca l ly. All other payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly through the f r ee marke t, provided that they are genuine transactions and do not involve an ou tf low of capital. 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Residents traveling abroad may take with them fore ign exchange as fo l lows: for travel to A rab countries, the equivalent of LS 600 a t r ip; for travel to other countries, the equivalent of LS 1,750 a t r ip; and for children under ten years of age, 50 per cent of these amounts. Fixed allocations also exist for other invisibles, as fo l lows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by fore ign techn ic ians and experts employed in the Syrian A rab Repub l ic; 50 per cent of the salaries of personnel of fore ign diplomatic and in terna t ional missions in the Syrian .A rab Repub l ic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accru ing to nonresidents f rom Syrian securities; and LS 250 a person a month for private donations and charities. In all cases, applications for addi- tional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency w i th in the limit of the declaration they have made when entering the Syrian A rab Repub l ic; the amount of Syrian currency taken out may not exceed LS 100. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of whea t, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their deriva- tives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel are prohibited. Exports of the main export products and of goods of fore ign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. The proceeds of all exports to countries other than those with which there are bilateral payments agreements must be obtained in "accept- able" currencies (see footnote 4) or other currencies, and surrendered at the off ic ial buying rate of LS 3.80 per US$1. The proceeds of other than m a jor exports to neighboring countries (see footnote 1) may be sold in the f ree market. Exports of cotton are subject to a specific export tax of 20 piastres per kilo. All exports of agr icu l tural products ( inc lud ing cotton) are subject to an ad valorem ag r icu l tu ral tax of 10 per cent. All the above taxes are collected by the customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles, inc lud ing tourism, may be sold in the f ree market. Nonresidents entering the Syrian A rab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any fo rm, provided that they present a written statement of the amount upon entry. Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 200 in Syrian currency. 520 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Capital Imports of capital in the fo rm of fore ign exchange are f ree for residents and nonresidents and may be effec ted through the f ree market. Exports of cap i tal require the approval of the Exchange O f f ice; if approved, they must be effected through the f ree market. Changes during 1965 January 1. The A rab Common Market Agreement, signed by Iraq, Jo rdan, Kuwa i t, the Syrian A rab Repub l ic, and the United A rab Republic, entered into e f fec t. February 18. The proceeds f rom exports of timber had to be surrendered at the o f f ic ial rate. February 18. Under the terms of Decree No. 36 (and of Resolution No. 73 of the Ministry of Economy wh ich was issued on February 28, 1965 to implement this decree) imports of a number of commodities were na t iona l ized. The fo l low ing commodities were to be imported through the Import and Export Company of the Public Sector (S IMEX ): green co f f e e; tea; r ice; copra; prepared or preserved meat and fish; crude sugar; preparations to be used as in fant f o o d; tobacco; salt; med ic ines; f e r t i l i z e r s; tire cases; raw hides and skins; wood; pape r; yarn of syn the t ic textile fibers; wool, carded or combed; yarn of carded or combed woo l; textile fibers, synthetic or a r t i f ic ia l; woven fab r ics or j u t e; sacks and bags of j u t e; i ron; bars of copper for indus t ry; harvesting and thresh ing mach ine ry; television sets; tractors; and motor vehicles and chassis the reo f. These imports accounted for about 55 per cent of total imports. March 1. Decree No. 40 created an o f f ic ial agency for trade in consumer goods; with the approval of SIMEX, the agency would import all types of consumer goods, inc lud ing those which in principle remained reserved for the private sector. March 1. Decree No. 41 au thor ized government agencies, national- ized industrial companies, and nationalized trad ing firms to import for their own account the products for wh ich SIMEX had a monopoly; such imports required only the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. March 11. Subject to the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy, any off ic ial agency could import the products listed in Decree No. 41 (see Ma rch 1, above) through channels other than SIMEX. March 18. Communique No. 314 of the Exchange Office canceled its Communique No. 6743 of July 18, 1964, which had permitted importers with payments obligations that were more than five months overdue 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC to purchase fo re ign exchange in the f ree market in order to make payment for goods imported against licenses prov id ing for settlement through the off ic ial market. Importers with bills overdue for any period of time were permitted to purchase exchange in the f ree market to settle their obligations. March 23. A b i la teral paymen ts agreement with Bulgaria of a special temporary na ture came into operation. April 1. The proceeds f rom exports to ne ighbor ing countries (except A fghan i s tan) and Lebanon of eggs, bu f fa loes, and goats could be sold in the f r ee market. May 5. Decree No. 76 na t iona l ized exports of cotton, wheat, barley, and their derivatives. These commodities accounted for about 75 per cent of total exports. May 20. Imports by SIMEX were exempt f r om advance deposit requirements. June 30. Importers mak ing advance payments of 25 per cent or more had to purchase the exchange for the advance payment in the f ree market. July 1. The f ree market rate, wh ich the state banks, acting on the request of the Exchange Off ice, had pegged for several months at LS 4.17 per US$1, was unpegged. July 28. Importers not receiving suppliers' credits of six months or longer were required to obtain in the f ree market 25-50 per cent of their exchange requirements. This regulation was applied to all imports by the nationalized companies and by SIMEX; some imports by the pr iva te sector were exempt, depend ing on the essentiality of the goods. September 1. The f ree market rate was pegged around LS 4.03 per US$1. October 4- A bilateral paymen ts agreement was signed with North Korea, November 24. Commercial in termed iar ies resident in Syria had to declare their foreign currency earnings f rom commissions since May 3, 1963, and were required to surrender these earnings to any local bank at the f r ee market rate. Hence fo r th, all commissions due to resident intermediaries were non t rans fe rab le and payable in Syrian currency only. 522 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Exchange Rate System No par va lue for the currency of Tanzan ia has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the East A f r i c an shilling, which is o f f ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at par with the U.K. shilling, giving the relationship EA Sh 1 = US$0.14. It circulates free ly in the East A f r i c an currency area, wh ich comprises Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. In transactions equ iva lent to at least £ stg. 5,000 with the pub l ic, the East A f r i c an Currency Board stands ready to issue East A f r i c an currency in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for East A f r i c an cu r rency; the o f f ic ial limits for the buy ing and selling rates for sterling d i f fer f rom par i ty by % and % per cent, respectively. The Board deals with its bank ing customers and, for large transactions, with the pub l ic at rates between the o f f ic ial limits. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the pub l ic has to deal th rough the authorized banks. The buy ing and selling rates for such transactions are at present w i th in the o f f ic ial limits. The Board does not deal in fore ign currencies l other than sterling. Banks in Tanzan ia base their rates for other currencies on the cu r rent market rates in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Treasury. Authority for approving import payments and specified categories of other current or capital payments up to established limits is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export trade control is administered by the Controller of Imports and Exports in the Ministry of Commerce and Cooperatives. The responsibility for issuing specific licenses rests with the Controller, to whom applications for import and export licenses must be submitted before orders are placed abroad or exports are sh ipped; import app l ica- tions for some commodities require the endorsement of a state t rad ing agency, i.e., the Cooperative Supply Association of Tanganyika (COSATA) or the In terna t ional Trad ing and Credit Company of Tanganyika ( INTRATA ). Payments f r om Tanzan ia to Kenya and Uganda are f ree of restriction. Prescription of Currency Tanzan ia is a member of the Sterling Area and ma in ta ins prescrip- tion of currency requirements s im i lar to those of the United K ingdom; all settlements with Kenya and Uganda, however, must be effected in 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the East A f r ican shilling. 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA East A f r ican currency. Settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya and Uganda may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, by residents of Tanzania to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in East .African shillings to the credit of an External Account, or in any other foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United Kingdom, in East A f r ican shillings from an External Account, or in any other specified currency 2 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Uganda. They may be credited with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Tanzania residents, with transfers f rom other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales to an au thor ized dealer in Tanzan ia o f .pounds sterling or the currency (excluding East A f r i c an shillings) of any other country in the Sterling Area. They may be debited for payments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya and Uganda and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda to Tanzan ia residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Tanzan ia, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder wh i le he is temporarily resident in Tanzania. Accounts in East A f r i c an shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers f rom other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of fore ign currency or gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the East African shilling. 524 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase of bonds and shares off ic ia l ly quoted in Tanzan ia; the redemption proceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferab le. Also subject to individual permission, such balances may be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Tanzania and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Uganda require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports f rom all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Some goods are imported by state trad ing agencies only. Most imports f rom Kenya and Uganda are unrestricted, but some 50 commodities or groups of commodities imported f rom these countries require a specific license. The import of certain additional items is restricted from Kenya only. Specific import licenses are required for some 65 commodities or groups of commodities from Commonwealth countries, GATT countries except Japan, and countries with which bilateral trade agreements are in fo rce ;3 other goods from these countries may be imported without licenses. All imports f rom Japan and f rom countries that are not members of the GATT require a specific license. All imports f rom South A f r i c a, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. When the importer has obtained a license f rom the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits as well as all other current payments are approved administratively if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. The basic allowance for travel outside Kenya and Uganda is EA Sh 5,000 a 8 These are Bulgaria, Burund i. Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Federal Repub l ic of Ge rmany, Poland, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA person a year. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Uganda may export any amount in domestic currency notes. Travelers to destina- tions outside Kenya and Uganda may take out up to EA Sh 1,000 in domestic currency notes and up to the equivalent of EA Sh 5,000 in other banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of products dealt with by state trad ing organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and if there is a local shortage may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East A f r ican common m a r k e t4 is unrestricted. Exports to South A f r ica, Portugal, all Portuguese territories, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected within six months f rom the date of exportation and those in specified currencies must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in free ly foreign currency notes. Travelers arriving direct f rom Kenya, Uganda, or Zanz ibar may bring in any amount of domestic currency notes; the import of domestic currency notes by other travelers is restricted to EA Sh 1,000 a person. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Kenya and Uganda require ind iv idual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania permanently may t rans fer their assets up to the equivalent of EA Sh 100,000 if they take up residence in a country outside the Sterling Area, or up to the equivalent of EA Sh 100,000 plus subsequent annual transfers of the equivalent of EA Sh 40,000 if taking up residence in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Accoun t; they may then be invested in approved Scheduled Terr i tory5 securities, and 4 The East African common market comprises Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 5 Tanzania's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 526 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA redemption proceeds become t rans fe rab le upon maturity of the securi- ties but not less than five years f rom the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Tanzan ia; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Invest- ments (Protection) Act 1963, wh ich in normal circumstances is given f ree ly. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of produc- tion require approval under the East A f r i c an Licensing Ordinance. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is free ly granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Tanzania securi- ties on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant ove rd ra ft fac i l i t ies to individuals and companies in order to enab le them to make overseas transfers. Changes during 1965 January 5. The import of wheat flour was prohibited. March 16. The import of eggs f rom all countries other than Kenya and Uganda required an ind iv idual license. April 1. Aden issued its own currency. The East A f r i c an shilling would remain legal tender un t il Ju ly 1, 1965, and Aden would remain a member of the East A f r i c an Currency Board un t il it was dissolved. April 13. Certain imports of textiles f rom Japan required an ind iv idual license and were restricted by quotas. April 16. General Notice No. 1448 of Ma rch 19, 1965 revised the import licensing procedure. The commodity list covered by the open general license for Commonwealth countries, GATT member countries, and trade agreement countries was amended. A new open general license for Kenya and Uganda made many commodities subject to ind iv idual license when imported f rom these countries. Specific import licenses were required for all imports not covered by open general license, irrespective of origin, and for all goods originating in Japan or in countries not members of the GATT. June 10. It was announced that the common currency arrangements of the three East A f r i c an countries would be terminated by the middle of 1966. 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA June 11. The exchange control treatment applicable to countries outside the Sterling Area was extended to all Sterling Area countries other than Kenya and Uganda. The existing exchange control definition of "Scheduled Territories," previously re fe r r ing to the Sterling Area, was narrowed to cover only Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. Conse- quently, the application of the restrictions on capital transfers and of the surrender requirements was extended to the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda. The Exchange Control Act was made applicable also to residents of Tanzan ia when outside Tanzan ia. The currencies of all countries other than the Scheduled Territories were designated as foreign currencies. Japanese yen, Spanish pesetas, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the East A f r i c an shilling were designated as specified currencies. It was o f f ic ia l ly stated that all reasonable requests for exchange for payments to Sterling Area countries in respect of such items as fam i ly remittances, educational expenses, and insurance would be approved, and that no new restrictions were being imposed on trade with the Sterling Area. June 18. Tanzan ia imposed restrictions on the import of a wide range of commodities f rom Kenya and Uganda. June 28. Imports of matches f rom all sources other than Kenya and Uganda required an individual license. July 1. The East A f r i c an shilling ceased to be legal tender in Aden. July 29. The restrictions on imports of candy and biscuits from Kenya and Uganda were abolished. September 20. The import f rom all countries other than Kenya and Uganda of a wide range of textiles and clothes required an indi- vidual license. October 4- The import f rom all countries other than Kenya and Uganda of coconut oil and plastic household articles required an indi- vidual license. November 4- The East A f r i c an Currency Board ceased redeeming currency notes of the design issued in East A f r i ca f rom October 12, 1964 onward, except in East A f r ica. November 11. Special regulations were issued for settlements with Rhodesia. November 29. The import f rom all countries other than Kenya and Uganda of ice cream, nails, wire, plastics, sheeting, and tubing of all types required an ind iv idual license. December 2. All trade with Rhodesia was prohibited. 528 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA December 5. The import from Kenya and Uganda of cheese, ice cream, co f fee, toilet soap, and ready-made garments was made sub ject to restriction. December 5. Restrictions were imposed on imports f rom Kenya and Uganda of goods or ig ina t ing in third countries. 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System The par va lue is Thai Baht 20.80 = US$1. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund wh ich limits its operations to spot transactions in U.S. dollars with commercial banks. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given au toma t ica l ly for bona f ide commercial t ransac t ions ). As at December 31, 1965, the buy ing and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U.S. dollars were B 20.70 buy ing, and B 20.75 selling, per US$1; the authorized banks' rates were B 20.68 buy ing, and B 20.825 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Tha i land on beha lf of the Ministry of F inance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents, i.e., au thor ized banks and au thor ized companies. Imports of gold require a license issued by .the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a ' few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic A f f a i r s. Prescription of Currency There are no special requirements concerning the currency to be used for settlements with fore ign countries; payments are made largely in sterling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: T rans fe rab le Accounts and Blocked Accounts. T rans fe rab le Accounts may be credited with the proceeds f r om sales of fo re ign currency and w i th f u n ds eligible for remittance abroad in fo re ign currency. Balances on Transferab le Accounts are convertible into fo re ign currency at any time and may be debited to pay for exports. T rans fe rs of baht to and f rom Blocked Accounts requ ire approval, which is granted au toma t ica l ly for certain current paymen ts; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for fore ign diplomatic entities, in terna t ional organizations stationed in Tha i land, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported f r e e l y; but import licenses are required for some 79 listed commodities, and for most of these items 530 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND licenses are not usually granted. All imports of goods originating in Ma in land China are prohibited. Imports of tea l e a f, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the importer purchase a pro- portionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Tha i land. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documen ts; the specific approval of the Bank of Thai- land, wh ich is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$280 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit w i th an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" f rom an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 3,000 in va lue can be cleared th rough the Bangkok customs or goods exceeding B 5,000 in value can be cleared through other customs stations. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require au thor iza t ion, wh ich is usually given by an authorized bank; exchange is provided freely. Cargo insurance premiums due to fo re ign insurers must be paid in baht, but they may remit to their head offices the premiums as earned income a f ter taxes. The t ran s fer of profits and d iv idends is permitted f ree ly by the Bank of Th a i l and; the Bank may require that large amounts of profits be remitted in ins ta l lmen ts, in order to prevent any undue impact on the exchange marke t. Apart f rom fo re ign trave l, f am i ly maintenance ab road, and educational expenses abroad, authorized dealers are permitted to approve applications for exchange without supporting documents, provided that each payment does not exceed the equivalent of US$140. For fore ign travel, f am i ly remittances, and study abroad, the amounts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are subject to certain max imum limits. For persons trave l ing ab road, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances of £ stg. 225 or US$630, or £14 5s. 9d. or US$40 a day for not more than 90 days, whichever is the grea ter; for business travel, additional fore ign exchange may be obtained in certain cases for entertainment expenses. Amounts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Tha i land on submission of documentary evidence. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly trave l ing on one passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of tin ore are prohibited. Certain categories of exports 531 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND are subject to l icens ing ;1 all others may be exported freely. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as follows: for shipments of rice, rice flour, tin^ or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station; for shipments of charcoal or wood exceeding B 10,000 in value through certain provincial customs stations; and for other goods exceeding B 3,000 in value through the Bangkok customs or B 5,000 in value through other customs stations. This certificate assures repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be sold to authorized agents within 7 days of receipt, or within 15 days f rom the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is drawn for collection, or 15 days a f ter the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 3 months after the date of export. Tourists require a "certificate of exportation" to take out articles other than personal effects with a total value in excess of B 10,000. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts f rom invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a fam i ly traveling on the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in foreign currency not exceeding the equivalent of US$500 or £ stg. 180 or, for a fam i ly traveling on the same passport, the equivalent of US$1,000 or £ stg. 360. Capital All outward transfers of capital, inc lud ing premiums on l i fe insur- ance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Foreign exchange f rom inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded preferential treatment under the Industrial Investment Act of February 10, 1962; this treatment includes a guarantee of the transfer abroad of current net earnings and of capital repatriation. The repatria- tion of other capital is considered on the merits of each case. When the amount to be repatriated is large, the applicant may be required to effect the t rans fer in installments in order to prevent a disturbance of the exchange market. 1 Gold, platinum, precious stones, certain fertilizers, live cattle and other animals, sorghum, maize, rice and rice products, tin ores, certain other minerals, rubber, radioactive materials, salt exported by sea, and, at certain exit points, ducks' eggs, hens' eggs, and chickens. 532 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Changes during 1965 January 28. Certain types of rice-milling machinery required an import license. February 26. Certain kinds of enamelware required an import license. July 24. The export of tin ore was prohibited. August 6. Cotton yarn (grades 46 and under) for weaving purposes required an import license. October 1. Import control on gunny bags and hessian cloth was removed. October 21. Authority to approve payments for imports of mining equipment was delegated to authorized banks. November 9. Export control on tin metal was removed. November 10. Export control was imposed on sorghum. 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, wh ich is off ic ia l ly maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 — 0.02 French f r an c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 The Banque Centrale des Etats de PA f r ique de POuest (BCEAO) stands ready, in transactions with commercial banks, to buy and sell CFA f rancs against French f rancs at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, plus or minus a commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. A tax of 0.5 per cent is levied on all authorizations issued by the Exchange Office for payments in excess of CFAF 10,000 to countries outside the French Franc Area, except payments of the Government. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Foreign exchange transactions are handled by au thor ized banks under the direction of the Exchange Office. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; import licenses are approved by the Exchange Office, wh ich checks the financing and other particulars. Prescription of Currency Togo is a member of the French Franc A rea, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. Imports and Import Payments Imports f rom countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Imports f rom all other countries require individual licenses. xT he CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de 1'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 534 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Special restrictions apply to imports f rom Japan. In pr inc ip le, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program which is to be established each year and wh ich may inc lude recommendations by a jo int French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooperation Agreement with F rance; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses f rom all sources other than Japan are granted. No quotas or free lists have been established. Import licenses en t i t le the importer to acquire the amount and k ind of fore ign exchange specified in the license, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to an au thor ized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f r e e ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Exchange O f f ice, but as a rule this is given l ibera l ly. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Income a c c ru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of prof i ts, dividends, and royalties may be remitted abroad, sub- ject to supervision. Payments for many other categories of invisibles are also subject to supervision to ensure that other aspects of the con- trol are not being circumvented. An allowance of up to CFAF 250,000 a person a trip in currencies other than those of the French Franc Area may be made available automatically to residents by the authorized banks for any tr ip outside that A r e a; requests for add i t ional amounts are granted liberally by the Exchange Office. Payments in respect of educa t ional expenses are permitted free ly. Representation, advertising expenses, and business travel may be financed with funds f rom EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Foreign na t iona ls employed in Togo may remit to the country of their nation- ality their f u ll basic salary. Travelers to other countries of the West A f r i c an Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, N iger, Senegal, and Upper Volta) may take out, without l im i t, banknotes issued by any bank of issue w i th in the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without l im i t, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for wh ich the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries outside the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to F 1,000 in French f r a n c s, or up to CFAF 75,000 in CFA f ranc s, or up to the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any other French Franc Area currency. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made f ree ly; exports to all other countries require licenses. Proceeds f rom exports to French Franc Area countries may be retained by exporters; export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered w i th in three months f rom the date of their receipt. Exporters may, however, retain part of their foreign currency proceeds in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, wh ich may be free ly used by the exporters themselves for any payment outside the French Franc Area for wh ich a general or a special license has been issued. The proportions of export proceeds that may be credited to EFAC accounts are 15 per cent for exports to Canada and the United States and 11 per cent for exports to other countries outside the French Franc Area. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services and income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 earned in those countries f rom fore ign securities must be collected promp t ly, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt.2 Travelers f rom other countries of the West A f r i c an Mone- tary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Vo l ta) may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers f rom other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area o ther than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Togo and other French Franc Area countries are free of con tro l; those between Togo and all other coun- tries require approval. Under the provisions of the general tax legislation, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to specified new investment (fore ign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enter- prises, in accordance with their importance to the economic develop- 8 For payment of insurance claims, the period is three months. 536 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO ment of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified number of years, special privileges relating to the maintenance of existing taxes and the exemption f rom import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges, and also treatment of the transfer of proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of old foreign investments, are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (No. 65-10 of July 21, 1965) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises/' provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement (convention d'etablissement) by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. Changes during 1965 January 1. A tax of 0.5 per cent was imposed on all authorizations for payments in excess of CFAF 10,000 to countries outside the French Franc Area, except payments of the Government. March 1. Settlements with Ruman ia ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Ruman ia, which was also applicable to Togo, was terminated. July 21. An Investment Law (No. 65-10) entered into effect. September 1. The issuance of licenses for imports from Japan was suspended. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exchange Rate System The par value is Tr in idad and Tobago Do l lar 1.71429 = US$1. The Trinidad and Tobago do l lar circulates concurren t ly with the East Caribbean dollar, with wh ich it is at par but wh ich is not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago. The East Caribbean do l lar, which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, has a fixed relationship to sterling of EC$4.80 — £1.1 This corresponds to a relationship to the U.S. do l lar of about EC$1.71 = US$1. All exchange transactions in Trinidad and Tobago are made through authorized banks. The banks ma in ta in fixed exchange rates of TT$4.80 = £1 and EC$4.80 = £1 and charge commissions of % of 1 per cent and %6 of 1 per cent, respec- tively, for sales and purchases of sight d ra f t s, and of % of 1 per cent and %6 of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of telegraphic transfers. The result is a selling rate of TT$4.812 or EC$4.812 per £1 and a buy ing rate of TT$4.779 or EC$4.779 per £1, for sight d ra f t s. Exchange rates for other convertible currencies are determined daily, on the basis of their quotations in terms of sterling on the London market, plus or minus the above commissions. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control for payments for invisibles is carried out by the Ministry of Finance through its Exchange Control Division; for payments for imports, by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce through its Trade and Commerce Division; and for proceeds f rom exports, by the Customs and Excise Department. For payments re la t ing to certain specified invisibles, authority is delegated to authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for compulsory surrender of foreign exchange2 and for control over both current and capital 1 The East Caribbean dollar was issued on October 6, 1965 by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, pursuant to the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 1965, to replace the West Indian dollar at par. (The West Indian dollar, which was issued by the British Caribbean Currency Board in Barbados, British Guiana, Leeward Islands, Windward Islands, and Trinidad and Tobago, had a fixed relationship to sterling of WI$4.80~ £1.) The East Caribbean dollar is the monetary un it of An t igua, Barbados, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Christopher-Nevis- Anguilla, St. Lucia, and St. V incen t; there are no restrictions on the movements of local currency notes between these areas and Trinidad and Tobago. 2 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts aiid payments of foreign currency, permission is granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Retained Account, sub ject to the requirement that periodic state- ments of credits and debits to the Account must be submitted to the authorities. 538 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO transactions. No control is at present exercised over t rans fe rs of sterling by residents of Trinidad and Tobago to other parts of the Sterling Area, but all payments and t rans fe rs to countries outside the Sterling Area, to an External Account in the United Kingdom or to an External Account in Tr in idad and Tobago dollars require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or ove rd ra ft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents, are also sub ject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Au tho r ized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by cred i t ing an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago do l lars, or in any fore ign currency. Payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in sterling f rom an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by debiting an External Account in Tr in idad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified currency .3 Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accoun ts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commercial banks for nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area, approved by the exchange control au thor i t ies; w i th t ran s fe rs f rom other External Accoun ts; and with proceeds f rom the sale of gold and foreign currency to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling A rea; for t rans fe rs to other External Accoun ts; and for p u r c h a s e s - of fo re ign currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be t rans fe r red between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Blocked Accounts may be credited with f u n ds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., proceeds f rom the sale by a 3 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French f rancs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. (Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were designated as specified currencies on April 7,1966.) 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or proceeds from the sale of sterling securities). The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Permission may be given for these balances to be transferred to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom. Subject to the approval of the U.K. exchange control authorities, they may then be reinvested in Sterling Area securities which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition. The income f rom such securi- ties, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an External Account in the United Kingdom. Permission is normally given to invest balances on Blocked Accounts in Trinidad and Tobago in local securities which are either irredeem- able or not redeemable within five years f rom the date of purchase. Interest is permitted on balances standing to the credit of Blocked Accounts in Trinidad and Tobago and may be remitted freely to the holders of the accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia are prohibited. Most imports f rom other countries are free of quantitative restriction. For import control pur- poses, countries are divided into two groups: (1) Sino-Soviet area countries 4 and Yugoslavia, and (2) all other countries, including the United Kingdom. The import regulations include prohibition, state trading, individual licensing, and open general license. (1) The following imports are prohibited or are subject to stringent control: matches manufac tured locally under a monopoly granted by the Government to a private company, coffee and cocoa beans, and beer in containers other than ten-ounce glass bottles and cans. Fire- arms, narcotics, and certain other goods are either prohibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. (2) Imported rice in bulk is the only commodity subject to state trading. This rice is normally imported from British Guiana and Surinam under government contracts, at agreed prices.5 (3) All commodities other than those specified under (1) and ( 2 ), above, are imported under either an individual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the 4 These are listed as Albania, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Nor th Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. 6 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial channels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than British Guiana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 540 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO arrangement depends on the countries f rom which the commodities are imported. (a) Imports from the Sino-Soviet area countries and Yugoslavia. All imports f rom these countries require a specific license. Licenses are granted only for essential goods. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rhodesia. For imports from these countries a "negative" list is published, which lists all goods subject to individual licensing. All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises about 220 tariff items. Licenses for these items are issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, provided that domestic industry is unable to supply the commodity in question. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports from countries other than those in the Sino-Soviet area or Yugoslavia, no discrimination is practiced because of the country of origin or the currency involved. Payments for all imports f rom countries outside the Sterling Area require an exchange license. If prescription of currency regulations are complied with, exchange licenses are granted without restriction or undue delay whenever the authorities are satisfied that no unau thor- ized capital transfer is involved. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles originating in the Sterling Area are permitted free ly. Those originating outside the Sterling Area require the specific approval of the authorities. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documentary evidence. As a matter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on payments for current international transactions. Under authority delegated by the Government, the au thor ized banks may approve applications for foreign exchange within prescribed limits for certain invisibles. When additional amounts are needed, the approval of the authorities is required and this is granted provided that unauthorized capital transfers are not involved. Residents and nonresidents may take out Trinidad and Tobago notes, East Caribbean currency notes, and/or sterling notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trinidad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (£250) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on departure, take out foreign currency notes up to the amount brought in by them. 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain listed goods require an individual license. The list includes some foodstuffs, animals, gold, and petroleum and petroleum products produced in Trinidad and Tobago, as well as specified products (about 40 tariff items) not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies to export without specific licenses. Export proceeds received in currencies other than East Caribbean dollars must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local currency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom current invisibles received in currencies other than East Caribbean dollars must be surrendered. Insurance, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for fore ign exchange receipts and expenditures -which are inherent parts of their businesses. These companies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trinidad and Tobago currency notes, East Caribbean currency notes, and /or sterling notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresidents. Capital Capital transfers f rom Trinidad and Tobago to other countries in the Sterling Area are permitted f ree ly, but those to countries outside the Sterling Area are closely regulated. However, repayment of commercial credit, g if ts, emigration allowances (in limited amoun ts ), and legacies are permitted freely. For transactions in securities, no authorized depositories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago, but dealings in securities largely conform in other respects to the practice in the United Kingdom. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities except those entered in a Register in the Sterling Area that is not a Subsidiary Register. 542 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Contractual amor t iza t ion on sterling securities is permitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds f rom the sale of securities or other investments owned by nonresidents of the Sterling Area may not ord inar i ly be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, a b o v e ); however, nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago a f t er Janua ry 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may t ran s fer prescribed securities to nonresidents, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, provided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in fore ign currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. When securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside the Sterling Area, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested abroad in similar securities. Nonresidents may sell local securities, prov ided, that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or not redeemable within five years f rom the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad, and Tobago do not d iscr im ina te between nationals and fore igners in the fo rma t ion and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landho ld ing) O rd inance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective fo re ign inves- tors must obtain approval for their p ro ject f rom the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and cap i tal gains. The proposed p ro ject must sa t isfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of the fore ign currency (not necessarily the or ig inal fo re ign currency of inves tmen t ), or, alter- natively, that if any loss is involved it can be jus t if ied in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incentive legislation designed to attract domestic and fore ign investment in secondary industry. This law provides for the g ran t ing of certain concessions to industries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., industries which have not previously existed in Tr in idad and Tobago or wh ich are not being conducted on a commercial scale. Every pioneer m anu f a c tu r er is entitled to temporary relief f rom import duties and taxes and to other privileges. 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO The proceeds realized f rom part or all of a direct capital investment made a f ter Janua ry 1, 1950 by a nonresident in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The investment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the fo l low ing ways: in foreign currency or sterling appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied f rom the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, sub ject to the fo l low ing conditions: (a) The right will not norma l ly apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. (b) When an investment did not require permission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his pro ject at the time the investment was made. Changes during 1965 January 2. The import licensing system was modified. Henceforth, a specific import license was required for goods listed in Notice to Importers No. 1 of 1965 when imported from any source including the United Kingdom. Cement and several other commodities were added to the list of goods requiring an individual license. February 10. An initial par value for the Trinidad and Tobago dollar of TT$1.71429 = US$1 was established with the International Monetary Fund. June 18. Imports of coffee in all forms, sweetened condensed milk, certain textile piece goods, and most ready-made clothing required a specific license. August 19. Imports of raw tobacco and the principal nonferrous metals (in ingot and other forms) required a specific license. October 6. The East Caribbean Currency Authority issued the East Caribbean do l la r; this currency could circulate freely in Trinidad and Tobago but was not declared legal tender. November 2. Imports of television receivers required a specific license. November 11. Imports of most types of meat required a specific license. November 12. Restrictions were imposed on payments to Rhodesia. The Rhodesian pound was designated as a specified currency. 544 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO November @4- All trade w i th Rhodesia was prohibited. December 31. The West Indian dollar ceased to be legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago. It continued, however, to be redeemed at par by the Central Bank. 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Tunisian Dinar 1 = US$1.90476. The rate of the dinar in relation to the French f r anc is fixed at D 0.10634 per F 1. Buying and selling rates for other convertible currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange market, by tak ing the average of the d i f fe rent rates quoted in Paris and converting it into dinars at the French f ranc /d inar exchange rate. The rate for the U.S. do l lar for settlements under bilateral payments agreements is D 0.525 = US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Central Bank of Tunisia, including the authorization of payments for imports and invisibles; some authority is delegated to the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Ministry of P lann ing and National Economy, which establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Tunisia is a member of the French Franc Area. For payment pur- poses, countries are classified as fo l low s: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the bilateral group, comprising countries with wh ich Tunisia has concluded bilateral payments agreements (Bu lgar ia, Mainland Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Mali, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., the United A rab Republic, and Yugos lav ia ); and (3) the area of convertibility, comprising all other countries. Settlements with countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that A r e a; with countries in the bilateral group, in clearing dollars w i th Bu lga r ia, Czechos lovak ia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Ma l i, Po land, R um a n i a, the United A rab Republic, and Yugoslavia, in Tunisian d ina rs with the U.S.S.R., and in Swiss agreement f r an cs w i th Ma in land Ch in a; and with countries in the area of convertibility, generally in convertible currencies1 or in Tunisian dinars through the accounts of residents of those countries. Certain commercial transactions with Ind ia must be settled in Indian rupees. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as fo l lows: French Franc Area External Accounts (Comptes Exterieurs-Zone Franc or 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 546 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA EZF Accounts) may be held by residents of other parts of the French Franc Area. These accounts are denominated either in dinars or in French f ranc s. Those held in dinars may be credited freely with proceeds f rom sales of French f r an cs or convertible currencies (see footnote 1 ); with t ran s fe rs f rom other French Franc Area External Accoun ts; and w i th t r an s f e rs f r om Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited f r e e ly for all settlements or t ran s fe rs effec ted within the French Franc Area. Accounts held in French f rancs may be credited f ree ly with French f r a n cs t ran s fe r red by a nonresident to the account ho lde r; w i th proceeds in French f r an cs f rom sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies; and with the proceeds of checks and travelers checks payab le either in French f r an cs or in convertible currencies and cashed by the account holder. They may be debited freely for all settlements or t ran s fe rs effected w i th in the French Franc Area. French Franc Area Internal Accounts (Comptes Interieurs-Zone Franc or IZF Accounts) may be held by physical persons who are residents of other parts of the French Franc Area but who are staying temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts are denominated in dinars. They may be credited free ly w i th proceeds f rom sales of French f rancs or convertible currenc ies; with t rans fe rs f rom other French Franc 'Area Internal Accounts held by the same person; with earnings, cash distributions under wills, amortization of securities, and proceeds f rom sales of Tunisian securities, provided that in all cases such funds accrue in Tunisia; and with repayment of loans granted f rom the same account. They may be debited f ree ly for transfers to another French Franc Area In ternal Account held by the same person; for living expenses in Tunisia of the holder and his f am i l y; for upkeep and supervision of his assets in Tun is ia; for purchase in Tunisia, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian securities; for purchase, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian short-term bonds and pape r; and for loans in dinars to residents. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of the area of convertibility. They may be credited f ree ly with payments for licensed imports f rom these countries and with proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies. They may be debited free ly for payments of any kind to residents of Tunisia and for the purchase of fo re ign exchange f rom the Central Bank. Transfers between these accounts and f rom these accounts to French Franc Area External Accounts and to Foreign Accoun ts in Bilateral Dinars may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries of the bilateral group. They may be credited f ree ly with 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA payments for licensed imports from these countries with proceeds f rom sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies, and with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of% Tunisia which are due from the country of the account holder. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used mainly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in antic- ipation of investment in Tun is ia; funds in these accounts may at any time be transferred to the country of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any country (includ- ing countries of the French Franc A r e a ). The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may hold global accounts. Capital Accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of liquidation of foreign investments and other assets, and with debt repayments and amortization of contractual obligations not covered by a retransfer guarantee. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required for the crediting of the sales proceeds of agricultural property belonging to nonresidents of French nationality. These accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in companies, real estate, and business concerns; the settlement of expenses arising in connection with the administration of non transferab le foreign assets, as well as personal expenses of the account ho lde r; taxes payable by the account holder; the granting of credits to residents; and gifts to social, cultural, and religious Institutions established in Tunisia. Accounts held by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area may not be debited for personal expenses without authorization, while those held by residents of the French Franc Area may be debited freely for the personal expenses of the account holder and of his fam i ly up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the intermediary of authorized banks, while certain others (e.g., credit or debit operations resulting f rom the sale or purchase of business concerns, or securities not admitted to the Tunisian stock exchange) require the authorization of the Central Bank. Transfers may be made freely between Capital Accounts of countries in the area of converti- bility, between those of countries in the French Franc Area, and between those related to the same country in the bilateral group, or f rom the first-mentioned group to those in the other groups. 548 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for foreigners staying temporarily in Tunisia and ga in fu l ly employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Central Bank. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents in Tunisia which may not be credited to other nonresident accounts either in accordance with a general or an individual license of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Suspense Accounts may be debited without the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tunisian securities, subscriptions to issues of short-term debentures or bonds, payments to the Tunisian Government or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the account holder or his fam i ly up to D 25 a person a week and not exceeding D 500 a year for any one fam i ly. All other debits of these accounts require the individual authorization of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Imports and Import Payments Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to government monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, play- ing cards, and imports f rom the United States under Public Law 480. In addition, certain government agencies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, are granted a monopoly over the import of com- modities f a l l ing within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, specified f ru i ts, etc .). Moreover, certain commodities, such as timber, paper, and certain metallurgical products, may be imported only by importers who are members of an importers' association. Imports by such associations and by state agencies are subject to the same licensing arrangements as those applicable to private imports. Imports of some 75 goods f rom any country (including France and other countries of the French Franc Area) are "prohibited," but may be authorized by ind iv idual license. Apart f rom the "prohibited" imports, imports originating in France or other countries of the French Franc Area do not, in principle, require import licenses. Exceptions are the following, which are subject to quantitative restriction and require ind iv idual licenses: (1) imports of 25 commodities or groups of commodities that are subject to global quotas applicable to all countries, (2) imports of commodities for which bilateral quotas have been agreed with countries outside the French Franc Area,2 and (3) imports f rom France of goods included in a list 2 These countries include most European OECD countries, in addition to the countries with which payments agreements are in force (see Prescription of Currency, above). 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA agreed upon between the French and the Tunisian authorities and which are subject to quotas applicable to France only. Among the goods included in the list are pe r fumes and cosmetics, wood, leather goods, woven fabr ics, certain clothing, jewelry, certain iron and steel products, air conditioners, washing and drying machines, motor vehicles, and clocks and watches. Payments for imports f rom France or other coun- tries of the French Franc Area must have prior authorization from the Central Bank. Such authorization is always granted, but may some- times be delayed when the Central Bank is short of French francs. The Central Bank submits all payments applications for unrestricted imports f rom France to the Ministry for Planning and National Econ- omy for endorsement. When applying for permission to make these payments, importers must declare "on their honor" that they do not have in the French Franc Area financial resources which could be used for this purpose. Import licenses for nonliberalized goods from countries outside the French Franc Area require the prior approval (avis technique) of the competent ministry; the prior approval (visa) of the Central Bank is required for making the corresponding import payment. Excluding "prohibited" imports, the import licensing system as applied to coun- tries outside the French Franc Area with which Tunisia does not have bilateral payments arrangements distinguishes between (1) liberalized goods, for which licenses are granted automatically; (2) goods subject to global quotas, which may be imported f rom any country; and (3) goods admitted under quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. The free list does not apply to payments agreement countries. Save in exceptional circumstances, licenses for goods not included in the free list, the global quota list, or the "prohibited" list are reserved for countries with which bilateral trade agreements are in force. Liberal- ized goods valued at less than D 200 and certain spare parts valued at not more than D 500 are free of license. All imports f rom countries with which there are bilateral payments agreements require individual licenses. Licenses are granted on the basis of global quotas or of bilateral quotas, where such quotas exist. In some cases, private compensation transactions are approved. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the commercial register and must have received a code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Import taxes of 5, 10, and 15 per cent apply to 300 sections of the t a r i f f; certain essential items, viz., milk, dairy products, and pharma- ceuticals, are exempt. These taxes are applied on the c.i.f. value plus customs duties, and are in addition to duties. There are also some other import taxes. 550 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the authorized banks. Provided that appropriate documentation is sub- mitted, approval is given for payments for certain current transactions, including remittances of profits, dividends, and interest due to non- residents. Payments for such items as business travel and fam i ly maintenance are approved up to certain limits; in addition, exporters and hotel owners holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these free ly for business travel and publicity expenditure abroad. Foreigners employed in Tunisia may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly salary, subject to a maximum of D 100 a month if their fam i ly lives in Tunisia or D 150 a month if they do not have their fam i ly with them. Other payments are more severely restricted. Residents of Tunisia traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 50. The allocation may be taken in the fo rm of foreign banknotes. The export of fo re ign banknotes is subject to license. The export of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to other parts of the French Franc Area and exports not exceeding D 50 to other countries do not require a license. All other exports require export licenses. For all exports, exporters must give undertakings to repatriate the exchange proceeds; the repatriation must ordinarily take place within 15 days f rom the date payment is due, and, in any event, within 100 days f rom the date of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the Central Bank. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessories) accounts the equivalent in d inars of a part of their export proceeds, viz., 2 per cent for a cash sale and 1 per cent for a sale on credit. Such accounts may be maintained in convertible or bilateral dinars, depending on the currency surrendered. Balances in EFAC accounts may be used free ly for business travel and publicity expenses abroad. Any balance in excess of D 1,000 must be surrendered. A special tax of 10 per cent is levied on exports of olive oil, salt, and cork, and a tax of 15 per cent on specified calcium phosphates and superphosphates, me ta l lurg ical ores, scrap iron, raw lead, and lead residuals. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived f rom services rendered to persons resident abroad, including residents of 551 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds f rom invisibles received f rom countries outside the French Franc Area. Foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely. The import of Tunisian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents, including residents of other countries of the French Franc Area, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tunisian authorities in order to secure the guarantee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings from, such investments. All foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia are granted foreign exchange up to D 3,500 upon leaving Tunisia permanently; amounts in excess of this limit are credited to Capital Accounts, as are inheritances received af ter the departure of the beneficiary. Pro- ceeds from the liquidation of non transferab le fore ign assets (e.g., real estate) must also be credited to Capital Accounts. All capital transfers by Tunisian nationals require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tunisian residents of foreign securities on foreign stock exchanges is, in principle, fo rb idden; in some cases, authorization is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issue by an enterprise in which he is already a shareholder. Changes during 1965 January 1. Customs duties and other charges affecting imported goods were increased by 10 per cent. February o. The bilateral payments agreement with Iraq was terminated. June 22. Authorized banks were no longer permitted to approve payments for specified iiriports from countries in the French Franc Area. Henceforth, all payments for imports from the French Franc Area required the approval of the Central Bank. July 19. The 15 per cent export tax on ground natural calcium phos- phate and single, double, and triple superphosphates was suspended. 552 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Exchange Rate System The par value is Turkish Liras 9.00 = US$1. The official rates are LT 9.00 buying, and LT 9.08 selling, per US$1. Off ic ial rates for other currencies are established by the Central Bank of Turkey on the basis of the par value of the other currency concerned. A tax of 50 per cent (minimum LT 500) is levied on fore ign exchange purchased for most travel purposes, inc lud ing the cost of transportation. Remittances f rom Turkish workers abroad are converted at the par va lue; when the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to an account at a bank in Turkey, the account is immediately credited with an additional 27 per cent of the amount converted. The cost of this additional payment, represent- ing three years' interest at 9 per cent per annum, is borne by the govern- ment budget. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Import programs are prepared by the Ministry of Commerce in conjunction with the Ministry of Finance and in consultation with the Central Bank and other interested institutions. The selection of permitted imports and the determination as to whether they should be admitted f ree of restriction or under quantitative limitation is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. Foreign exchange is allocated by the Central Bank or, for some categories of imports under quotas, by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry and the competent ministry. Certain fore ign exchange allocations for imports require the prior approval of the competent ministry, primarily for public security, agr icu l tura l, or health reasons. The Central Bank issues import licenses and the Ministry of Commerce issues export licenses. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise and invisibles with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements l are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreement. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs within this 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany (an agreement between the Chambers of Commerce), Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. 553 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY period. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import merchan ts), industrialists (manu fac tu re rs importing for their own needs), state economic enterprises, and government departments. Private individuals and corporate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" be fo re submitting through the authorized banks applications for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. However, exporters, operators of m in ing undertakings and tourist establishments, and industrialists are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs. Goods may be imported only in accordance with the provisions of import programs, wh ich are planned for a year and announced for six-month periods in Janua ry and July. The import programs, wh ich include commodities financed with funds f rom the U.S. Agency for International Development (AID) and commodities to be imported under U.S. Public Law 480, classify imports in three categories: (1) a list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (Lists I and I I ), for which import licenses are issued f r e e ly; (2) a list of goods subject to global quotas; and (3) goods that can be imported within the quotas established under bilateral agreements. With some exceptions, imports of goods that do not appear on any of these lists are prohibited. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas, in principle, apply only to imports f rom countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements, but goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. For some goods on the liberalization and global quota lists, importers have the option of applying for exchange allocations f r om U.S. AID funds, while other goods on these lists may be imported only with U.S. AID funds and only f rom the United States. An over-all fore ign exchange allocation is set aside by the Central Bank for imports of goods on the liberalization list. Applications for import licenses for goods on this list may be submitted through author- ized banks at any time dur ing the validity of the list; these banks prepare the import licenses and forward them to the Central Bank for approval. The global quota list distinguishes between quotas for registered importers and quotas for industrialists. Allocations for imports on the global quota list are made by the Central Bank, by one of several ministries, or by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, within quantitative limits established for each quota item included in these two categories. Quotas for importers, in principle, are allocated by the Central Bank on a pro rata basis. Applications for these quotas must be made through an authorized bank within one month of the 554 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY date of publication of the quota list. No single importer may apply for more than 20 per cent of the quota set for any particular com- modity. Applicants are notified of allocations made by the Central Bank through the authorized banks. Within two months of receiving such notice of an allocation, the importer must apply for an import license through an authorized bank. Quotas for industrialists are allo- cated by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry or the Ministry of Industry on the basis of such criteria as capacity, output, and previous pe r fo rmance. A f ter the applicant has secured an alloca- tion (i.e., has been issued with a "certificate of need"), he must apply through an authorized bank to the Central Bank for an import license within three months, and no later than one month f rom the expiration date of the quota list. Some quotas, irrespective of the category (either importers7 or industrialists') in wh ich they are included, are allocated by particular authorities, for example, the Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce, Finance, Industry, or Health and W e l f a r e; a f ter securing an allocation under these quotas, the applicant must fo l low the pro- cedure for imports under industrialists' quotas. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are sub ject to separate quotas. The import licensing procedure for goods f rom these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas specified in each agreement are dealt with on a monthly basis. The import license permits the necessary fo re ign exchange payment to be made. Payments for imports may be made against a letter of credit, documents, or goods. However, for liberalized imports and those financed f rom U.S. AID funds, payment may be made only against a letter of credit. When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local currency the equivalent of the fore ign exchange applied fo r. For payments against documents or commodities for global quota list imports, importers and industrialists are required to prepay 50 per cent of the value of the import. Guarantee deposits for imports not financed f rom U.S. AID funds are payable in advance as fo l lows: for goods on l ibera l iza t ion List I, 70 per cent of the value of the merchandise is payab le, and on List II, 100 per cent; for imports under g lobal quotas or b i la teral quotas, 30 per cent of the value of the import app l ica t ion is payable by importers, and 10 per cent by industrialists, at the time application to import is made. Guarantee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment emp loyed; government agencies are exempt. The deposit remains blocked un t il the goods have been imported and the foreign supplier pa id; it is then re funded to the importer. 555 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY For imports to be financed from U.S. AID funds, a guarantee deposit is also payable at the time application is made to import; these deposits are refunded upon the opening of a letter of credit. The deposits required are as follows: for imparts on liberalization Lists I and II, 30 per cent of the value of the import application is payable by importers and 20 per cent by industrialists; .for imports on the quota list, 20 per cent is payable by importers and 10 per cent by industrialists. Imports without an allocation of foreign exchange may be permitted by the customs authorities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance under certain conditions. Turkish residents and foreign companies or contractors undertaking business in Turkey may import freely commodities for personal, family, or business use within a limit of LT 300 for each transaction; fu r the rmo re, they may freely import goods on the liberalization list without obtaining any allocation of foreign exchange. In addition to personal effects, returning residents may import goods and machinery for their personal or fam i ly use not exceeding LT 1,000 in total value. Permission for the importation of gifts or donations f rom abroad in the fo rm of commodities is granted to Turkish residents in Turkey within a limit of LT 1,000. Government officials returning from their permanent posts abroad, Turkish pro- fessors returning a f ter two years or more of teaching in foreign univer- sities, Turkish nationals returning a f ter five years or more of residence abroad, and nonresidents entering Turkey to become residents may import their new or used household goods. Foreign companies and contractors may import any goods, including machinery and vehicles but excluding raw materials, without request- ing an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and provided that they are supplied by their main offices or parent companies. Such imports require the permission of the customs authorities when their annual total value does not exceed LT 100,000, or the permission of the Ministry of Finance when the value is above this amount. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Turkish residents may import automobiles 2 (not less than five years old and not exceeding 1,600 kilograms in weight), goods, and machinery for their personal, family, or professional use, provided that the source and amount of their income from abroad is consistent with certain rules and conditions established by the Ministry of Finance. Earnings abroad in excess of US$150 monthly are considered as savings in determining the basis for the limit on such imports. For imports of 2 Automobiles are not included in the import program. 556 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY automobiles, minimum total savings of US$800 are required. Permission to import is generally given by the Central Bank; for imports by returning workers who have been employed abroad for at least two years under arrangements made by the State Employment Office, per- mission may be granted by the customs authorities provided that the value of the goods (excluding cars) does not exceed LT 3,000 (or LT 10,000 when the goods are to be used in the worker's employment in Turkey). Personal effects brought in by Turkish residents are exempt from customs duty. Automobiles imported without a foreign exchange allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their automobiles to Turkish residents a f ter a certain period of time and after paying the necessary import duties at the time of the sale. Foreign nationals resident in Turkey, other than diplomats, may import automobiles under certain conditions, but not more often than once every three years; such cars may be sold in Turkey a f ter the owner has lived there for five years. All customs declarations or documents used in lieu thereof are charged with a stamp duty of 5 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the follow- ing, provided that applications are accompanied by specified docu- ments: payments related to trade ( inc lud ing shipping costs), subscrip- tions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expenses, consulate income, payments by the Government, payments by the Post Office Administration and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a propor- tion of insurance companies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial trans- actions. The transfer of income related to approved foreign investments is permitted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agri- cultural character) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel by residents (irrespective of nationality) is the equivalent of US$200 a calendar year (US$111 for persons under 18 years of age ). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to up to US$200 on request; this does 557 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY not a f fect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the amount of income of, or income tax paid by, the applicant firm. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fa irs, athletic meets, etc., and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, of which the main one is travel for reasons of health, a tax of 50 per cent (minimum LT 500) is payable on all exchange purchased for travel abroad, on the purchase of tickets for foreign travel, and on baggage charges. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 200 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent portion of the fore ign exchange which they brought in. Non- resident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an author- ized dealer in Turkey. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports are f ree of license, but a few commodities require an export license, either in order to prevent re-export or to assure adequate supplies for the domestic market. Exports not payable in convertible currencies are subject to licenses and to export quotas. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the fore ign exchange proceeds of goods exported, within three months f rom the date of export or within ten days f rom the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months f rom the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Remittances f rom Turkish workers abroad must be con- verted at the par value. When the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to a bank account in Turkey, an additional amount of 27 per cent is immediately credited to the account, representing three years' interest at 9 per cent per annum; the amounts deposited plus the interest can be withdrawn at any time. Firms and individuals who have purchased foreign banknotes and travelers checks from, or received them as pay- 558 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY ment from, foreign travelers are required to surrender them to an authorized exchange dealer within one month. Foreign travelers wishing to take out articles of a value exceeding LT 5,000 must show proof that they have converted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travelers (whether of Turkish or foreign na t iona l i ty) is limited to LT 500. Capital Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the fo rm of foreign exchange, although under certain conditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is subject to permission by the Ministry of Finance. Except for approved investments, non- residents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accru ing to them; if such earnings exceed LT 5,000 a year, any excess is blocked. Subject to ind iv idual permis- sion, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the benefit of third parties to be used for tourist trips on a collec- tive basis in Turkey or for film production in Turkey; for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of property; and for living expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 2,500 for certain relatives. They may not, however, be utilized as business capital except for investment in the tourist industry. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the fo l low ing conditions: (1) there must be a contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must undertake not to request t rans fer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in this manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. 559 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Residents of Turkey (1959) may be used either partially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment pur- poses is subject to the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the transfer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in the export industry or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be transferred annually. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the economic development of the country, will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise, and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, as amended, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon applica- tion, the Ministry of Finance guarantees the transfer of dividends and of the proceeds f rom the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certifi- cates registered on the books of companies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and residents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certificates are sold to a resident, how- ever, they must be presented to the Ministry of Finance for cancella- tion of the guarantees. The capital and interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits. Foreign capital imported under the Petroleum Law is accorded additional preferential treatment. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when nonresident interests are involved. Changes during 1965 January 4- The fourteenth import program, covering the first half of 1965, was announced: (1) Minor changes were made in the liberal- ized list; fertilizers were added. (2) The amounts allocated for some items on the global quota list were reduced considerably. (3) The rates 560 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY of guarantee and advance deposit requirements were maintained without change. (4) Exports of raisins, filberts, barley, oats, bran, and oil cake became subject to export license for all destinations. (5) Exports of tobacco, dried figs, bran, and oil cake became subject to price registration. (6) A list of several goods that could be exported on consignment was published. January 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Finland was terminated. July 5. The f if teen th import program, covering the second ha lf of 1965, was announced: (1) Minor changes were made in the commodity coverage of the liberalized and quota lists. (2) The amounts allocated for some items on the global quota list were increased considerably. (3) Several products that previously could only be purchased with U.S. AID funds could be imported f rom any source. (4) Bran and oil cake no longer required an export license, but they remained subject to price registration. (5) Exports of livestock and pistachio nuts became subject to price registration. (6) Certain items were added to the list of goods that could be exported on consignment. 561 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Uganda has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the East A f r i c an shilling, wh ich is o f f ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at par with the U.K. sh i l l ing, giving the rela- tionship EA Sh 1 — US$0.14. It circulates f ree ly in the East A f r ican currency area, wh ich comprises Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. In transactions equivalent to at least £ stg. 5,000 w i th the public, the East A f r i c an Currency Board stands ready to issue East A f r i c an currency in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for East A f r i c an cu r rency; the o f f ic ial limits for the buy ing and selling rates for sterling d i f f er f rom parity by % and % per cent, respectively. The Board deals with its bank ing customers and, for large transactions, with the pub l ic at rates between the off ic ial limits. In transac t ions covering smaller amounts, the pub l ic has to deal through the authorized banks. The buying and selling rates for such transac- tions are at present w i th in the o f f ic ial limits. The Board does not deal in foreign currencies l other than sterling. Banks in Uganda base their rates for other currencies on the current market rates in London. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Treasury. Authority for approving no rmal import paymen ts and providing standard allocations of fo re ign exchange is delegated to the au thor ized banks. Import and export control is administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try under the Ex ternal Trade Ordinance. The responsibility for issuing import and export licenses rests with the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, to whom applications should be submitted by the importer or exporter in Uganda be fo re orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Payments f rom Uganda to Kenya and Tanzan ia are free of restrictions. Prescription of Currency Uganda is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United K ingdom; all settlements with Kenya and Tanzan ia, however, must be effec ted in East A f r i c an currency. Settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya and Tanzan ia may be made in any 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the East African shilling. 562 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, inc lud ing payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in East A f r i c an shillings to the credit of an External Account, or in any other foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling f rom an External Account in the United K ingdom, in East A f r i c an shillings f rom an External Account, or in any other specified currency 2 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be credited with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area countries by Uganda residents, with t ran s fe rs f rom other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of pounds sterling or the currency (excluding East A f r i c an sh i l l ings) of any other country in the Sterling Area. They may be debited for payments for exports to other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzan ia and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzan ia to Uganda residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling A rea except Kenya and Tanzan ia for any purpose, for transfers to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for w i thdrawa ls by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda. Accounts in East A f r i c an shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with t rans fe rs from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds f rom sales of fore ign currency and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for t rans fe rs to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies f rom authorized dealers. 2T he specified currencies are listed as follows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the East African shilling. 563 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, balances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase of bonds and shares in Uganda; the redemption proceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferab le. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzania, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities f rom countries outside the Sino-Soviet area may be imported without a license. With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East A f r ican common m a r k e t3 is unrestricted. Uganda maintains quantitative restrictions on imports of 12 commodities or groups of commodities. Individual licenses for these items are required as fo l lows: (1) a license is required, regard- less of origin, for kerosene, ale, beer, stout, cement, groundnuts, and edible oils and fa ts (other than butter, margarine, and sho r ten ing ); (2) a license is required for importation f rom any country other than Kenya or Tanzania of cereals and cereal products (except r i c e ), beet and cane sugar, glucose, syrup, ju te and sisal bags and sacks, fabr ics of ju te, gold, gold ore, jewelry, and ex-military vehicles; (3) other items (butter, margarine, shortening, most cotton fab r ics, silver, silver ore, platinum, platinum ore, a i rc ra ft and parts thereof, matches, firearms, and ammunition) require an individual license when imported f rom specified countries.4 All imports f rom Czechoslovakia, Japan, Poland, and any country outside the Sterling Area not listed above require an individual license. All imports f rom South A f r ica and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports f rom Japan are suspended. When the importer has obtained a license f rom the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, or if no license is required, exchange is provided automatically by an authorized bank upon production of the necessary documentary evidence by the importer that the goods have been shipped f rom the country of origin or imported into East A f r ica. 8 The East Afr ican common market comprises Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 4 These are listed as Argentina, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Democratic Republic of Congo, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Haiti, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Arab Republic, United States, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 564 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits as well as all other current payments are approved administratively if the authorities are satisfied that such payments do not represent an illegal export of capital. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories 5 is the equivalent of EA Sh 5,000 a person a yea r , ,wh ich may be taken out in foreign banknotes. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Tanzania may take out up to EA Sh 500 in domestic currency notes and up to EA Sh 5,000 in other banknotes. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Tanzania may export any amount in domestic currency notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Kenya and Tanzania who come to work in Uganda may dur ing the first four years of their stay in Uganda remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc. Fees for education up to the equivalent of EA Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a g i f t, to a country other than Kenya or Tanzania more than EA Sh 200 a year without specific exchange control approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain food s tu f fs and agr icu l tural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. With relatively few exceptions, the movement of goods within the East A f r i c an common market is unrestricted. All exports to South A f r i c a, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be offered to an author- ized bank in Uganda for conversion into East A f r i c an shillings. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency B Uganda's exchange control regulations define Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. the Scheduled Territories as 565 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA notes; the import of domestic currency notes must not exceed EA Sh 500 in va lue for each traveler unless arr iv ing direct f rom Kenya or Tanzan ia, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital t ran s fe rs to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are restricted. Specified capital t rans fe rs up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzan ia are approved by authorized banks; all other capital t rans fe rs to destinations other than Kenya and Tanzania require ind iv idual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leaving the Scheduled Territories (see footnote 5) permanently may t rans fer their assets up to the equivalent of EA Sh 100,000. If they take up permanent residence in their country of origin in the Sterling Area, approval is norma l ly given for the fu r th er t rans fer of up to the equivalent of EA Sh 40,000 upon each anniversary of their departure. All rema in ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in certain approved securities, and, if so invested, redemption proceeds become t rans fe rab le five years f rom the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of fore ign funds in Ug and a; but to ensure eventual repa tr ia t ion, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Pro- tection) Act, 1964, which in normal circumstances is given freely. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r i c an Licensing Ordinance. Except in respect of Kenya and Tanzan ia, all imports and exports of securities requ ire approva l. App roval is f ree ly granted for the purchase by nonresidents of Uganda securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income f rom such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must norma l ly be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Tanzan ia by residents are not normally permitted. Commercial banks are not permitted to grant ove rd ra ft facilities to individuals and companies in order to enable them to make over- seas transfers. Changes during 1965 April 1. Aden issued its own currency. The East A f r ican shilling would rema in legal tender un t il July 1, 1965, and Aden would remain a member of the East A f r i c an Currency Board until it was dissolved. 566 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA April 22. Imports f rom Japan were suspended until fu r ther notice. May 28. Imports f rom all sources of ale, beer, stout, and cement required an individual license. June 10. It wras announced that the common currency arrangements of the three East A f r i c an countries would be terminated by the m idd le of 1966. June 11. The exchange control trea tment app l icab le to countries outside the Sterling Area was extended to all Sterling Area countries other than Kenya and Tanzan ia. The existing exchange control de f in i- tion of "Scheduled Territories/' previously re fe r r ing to the Sterling Area, was narrowed to cover only Kenya, Tanzan ia, and Uganda. Consequently, the app l ica t ion of the restrictions on capital t ran s fe rs and of the surrender requirements was extended to the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzan ia. The Exchange Control Act was made app l icab le also to residents of Uganda when outside Uganda. The currencies of all countries other than the Scheduled Territories were designated as fore ign currencies. Japanese yen, Spanish pesetas, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the East A f r i c an shilling were designated as specified currencies. It was o f f ic ia l ly stated that all reasonable requests for exchange for paymen ts to Sterling Area countries in respect of such items as f am i ly remittances, educational expenses, and insu rance would be approved, and that no new restric- tions were being imposed on trade with the Sterling Area. June 11. The amounts in domestic cu r rency notes that travelers could free ly br ing in f r om, or take out to, countries other than Kenya and Tanzan ia were changed f rom EA Sh 1,000 and EA Sh 200 to EA Sh 500. July 1. The East A f r ican sh i l l ing ceased to be legal tender in Aden. November 4- The East A f r i c an Currency Board ceased redeeming currency notes of the design issued in East A f r i ca f rom October 12, 1964 onward, except in East A f r i c a. November. Settlements w i th Rhodesia became sub ject to special regulations. December 8. All trade with Rhodesia was prohibited. 567 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par va lue for the Egyptian Pound was established by the United A r ab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the o f f ic ial rate of LE 1 = US$2.30, but an exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most invisible and capital remittances. The rates of the Central Bank of Egypt at the end of December 1965 were LE 0.434782 buying, and LE 0.437390 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange, wh ich is set up by the Minister of Economy. The exchange control laws, ministerial arrets, decree-laws, and instructions of the Minister of Economy and of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of Economy. The technical work of exchange control is performed, under the supervision and instructions of the Director of Exchange Opera- tions, by the Central Exchange Control attached to the Central Bank. An Export Board controls exports. Import licenses, when required, are issued by the Import Control Office. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries with wh ich the United A rab Republic does not have b i la teral paymen ts agreements may be made in the currency of the payee's country when that currency is ava i lab le; in a convertible cu r rency ;1 in Egyp t ian pounds to the credit of the appro- priate nonresident accoun t; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payer's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Central Bank; in any convertible cu r rency; in Egyptian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonresident accoun t; or in any other manner per- mitted by the Central Exchange Control. Settlements with countries with wh ich the United A rab Repub l ic has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agreements.2 1 Convertible currencies are listed in the exchange control regulations of the United Arab Republic as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 The United Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements with the 568 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a conver t ib le currency to an au tho r ized bank in the United A rab Repub l ic, or by debiting a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to the b i la teral payments agreements of the United A r ab Repub l ic, there are three ma in types of nonresident accounts: Free Nonresident Accounts, Nonresident C Accounts, and Nonresident D Accounts. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his coun try of residence. They may be credited with proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been t rans fe r red f rom ab ro ad; with t ran s fe rs f rom other Free Nonresident Accoun t s; w i th interest on the accoun t; and with the Egyptian pound equivalent of any t r an s f er au tho r ized in convertible currency by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for t ran s fe rs to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Nonresident C or D Accoun ts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited w i th proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been t rans fe r red f rom a b r o a d; w i th t r an s f e rs f rom Free Non- resident Accounts or other Nonresident C Accoun ts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for payments due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements; for t r an s f e rs to other Nonresident C A c coun t s; and —provided that Central Exchange Control au tho r iza t ion is ob ta ined — for t ran s fe rs to Non- resident D Accounts and paymen ts abroad in conver t ib le currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement coun try (see foo tno te 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the pa r tner country concerned, and following coun tr ies: A lban ia, A lger ia, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Ceylon, Mainland China, Cuba, Czechos lovak ia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, India (for trade in certain commodities), Indonesia, Iraq. North Korea, Libya, Ma l i, Mongolia, Morocco, Niger, Poland, Ruman ia, Somalia, Spain, Sudan (for trade in cer ta in commod i t ies), Tunisia, Turkey, U.S.S.R., No r th V ie t-Nam, Repub l ic of V ie t -Nam, Yemen, and Yugoslavia. There are also inoperative payments agreements w i th Dahomey and the Syrian Arab Republic, and a paymen ts agreement w i th Lebanon that is to expire upon ratification of the protocol providing for its termination. The agreements with Cuba and Somalia cover payments for commercial transactions only. 569 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC t rans fe rs f rom the account of one country to any other country may not be made without Central Exchange Control au thor iza t ion. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom the sale of any convertible currency that has been t rans fe r red f rom ab road; with transfers f rom a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that Central Exchange Control au thor iza t ion is obtained —with t ran s fe rs from a Nonresident C Accoun t; with t ran s fe rs f rom other Nonresident D Accounts of the same na t iona l i ty; and with any sum au thor ized to be credited to the account by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited for paymen ts due to residents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' d isbursemen ts; and —provided that Central Exchange Control au tho r iza t ion is ob ta ined — for t rans fe rs to other Nonresident D Accoun ts and for paymen ts to the country in whose name the account is designated. There are also blocked accounts, to wh ich may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations. T rans fe rs between blocked accounts of the same na t ion- ality require prior approval. These accoun ts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder or his f am i ly in the United A rab Repub l ic. They may also be debited for investments in U.A.R. Government loans and in registered shares in nominative fo rm of companies established in the United A rab Repub l ic, and for subscriptions to increases in capital of U.A.R. companies in wh ich the account holder is a lready a shareho lder. Income derived f rom such investments may be remitted to the non- resident beneficiary. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are b locked; no transactions on these accounts may take place without prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a f a i r ly large number of goods f rom any source, and all imports f rom Israel and Rhodes ia, are prohibited. For purposes of adm in is tra t ion, the economy is divided into several sectors. Foreign exchange allocations for imports of each sector are made on a periodic basis by an In term in is ter ial Committee. The total periodic allocation for imports is determined a f t er deduc t ing f rom the ac tual exchange earnings of the previous period the fore ign debt service obligations and other paymen ts f or invisibles f a l l ing due in the subsequent period. The authorities in charge of each sector determine the use to be made of its allocation for imports. They also choose whe ther imports should be made directly by them or through the state-owned importing agen- cies. The payment is arranged through the bank designated for the sector. Imports of personal baggage and imports not requiring foreign 570 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC exchange are sub ject to import licenses, wh ich are issued by the Import Control Office. A statistical tax of 10 per cent is payable on imports. Advance payments exceeding LE 100 for imports require the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to prov ide exchange for paymen ts for certain inv is ib les; for others, the pr ior approval of the Cen tral Exchange Control is required. Exchange is no rma l ly made ava i lab le for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current pay- ments. Expenses for permitted trave l, f am i ly ma in tenance, f i lm royal- ties, and subscriptions and fees of profess ional organ iza t ions usua l ly are approved w i th in specified quo tas. The a l lowance for permitted travel is LE 75. Private travel abroad is f r e e ly permitted when no exchange is applied fo r. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all payments for invisibles except students' remittances, government paymen ts, and transfers of f u n ds for pilgrimages. Travelers may not export Egyp t ian pound notes. Foreign tourists leaving the United A rab Republic may take with them any rema in ing foreign exchange wh ich they had brought in and dec lared, but residents may not take out fo re ign bankno tes in excess of LE 20 w i thout specific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart f rom exports to Israel and Rhodes ia, wh ich are p roh ib i ted, and commodities required for the na t ional economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made f ree of license, but an export fo rm must be submitted. Export proceeds must be repatriated w i th in three months f r om the date of shipment of the goods. Proceeds f r om exports to payments agreemen t ,coun tr ies must be obtained in acco rdance with the provi- sions of the relevant agreement (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above ). Proceeds from Invisibles All persons and legal entities in the Un i ted A rab Repub l ic are obliged to o f fer to au tho r ized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, w i th in one mon th f rom the date of the ir collection abroad, all proceeds in fore ign currenc ies derived f rom invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyp t ian pounds f rom Shipping 571 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Accounts No. 1, which may be fed only with sales of convertible currencies or by t rans fe rs f rom a Free Nonresident Account. Persons arriving in the United A rab Repub l ic f rom abroad may not import Egyptian banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in fo re ign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Capital Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring capital assets or securities outside the United A rab Republic require individual licenses, which normally are not granted except for transfers to some neighboring countries. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Private capital t rans fe rs abroad are subject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase freely securities on stock exchanges in the United A rab Republic against payment in foreign currencies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds f rom sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Transfers of securities between residents of the same monetary area are permitted. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of (1) securi- ties drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue; (2) the value of l i fe or endowment policies on surrender or at ma tu r i ty; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released f rom a fam i ly 's assets in the United A rab Republic to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 define the treatment of new fore ign investments that contribute to the development of the economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism, and establish the limits for transfers of profits. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by these laws are considered on an individual basis. 572 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Changes during 1965 January 1. The A rab Common Market Agreement, signed by Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, the Syrian A rab Republic, and the United Arab Republic, entered into effect. January 1. A bilateral payments arrangement with Cuba came into operation. January 30. A new bilateral payments arrangement with Sudan was signed. February 5. The bilateral credit arrangements attached to the trade agreement with Kenya were terminated with retroactive effect. June 18. The bilateral payments agreement with the Netherlands was terminated. June 21. New payments arrangements with Somalia came into operation. July' 20. The bilateral payments agreement with Portugal was terminated. September 30. A bilateral payments agreement with Indonesia was signed. October 20. A protocol was signed te rm ina t ing the bilateral payments agreement with Lebanon and the arrangements with that country con- cerning tourism. The protocol provided that payments between the two countries would take place in convertible currencies, with the exception of payments f rom Lebanon for invisibles; the latter pay- ments could be effected in Egyptian pounds through the accounts of the terminated agreement un t il the balances in those accounts were liquidated. The protocol would come into fo rce upon ratification. October 22. Private travel was free ly permitted, provided that no application for foreign exchange was involved. Travel facilities for exporters to hard currency countries were increased. November 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Ethiopia was terminated. November 11. The b i la teral payments agreement with Switzerland was terminated. November 20. It was announced that restrictions on imports of certain nonessential consumer goods would be relaxed. December 6. The b i la teral paymen ts agreement with Cyprus was terminated. December 12. All trade w i th Rhodesia was prohibited. Rhodesian- held accounts in the U.A.R. were blocked. 573 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value is Pound Sterling 1 = US$2.80. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of US$2.82 buying, and US$2.78 selling, per £1. Market rates for spot transactions in other convertible or externally convertible cur- rencies (except those currencies for which quotations are based on sterling, e.g., Australian and New Zealand pounds) are free to move within a range of rates resulting f rom the official dollar limits of the United Kingdom in relation to the dollar limits of the other countries concerned. Authorized banks may, subject to the observance of limits upon the accumulation of spot foreign exchange, carry out forward transactions at rates which may fluctuate under the influence of market forces. Transactions with resident customers may only be entered into for approved purposes. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot and forward exchange transactions in any currencies except the Rhodesian pound. The authorized banks may deal among themselves and with residents and nonresidents in foreign notes and coins at free market rates of exchange. There is also a market in which the foreign exchange proceeds (referred to as investment currency or security dollars) resulting mainly f rom the sale outside the Sterling Area of foreign currency securities l or direct investments owned by residents may be negotiated at freely determined rates, usually attracting a premium over the official market ra te; on December 31, 1965, that premium was about 16 per cent. These funds are available for reinvestment in marketable foreign currency securities and for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area. In another market the foreign exchange proceeds (referred to as property currency) resulting from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property (mainly houses and apartments) owned by residents may be negotiated at freely determined rates; the premium over the official market rate was about 27 per cent at the end of 1965. These funds are available, with specific permission, for the purchase of a house or apartment for personal use in a country outside the Sterling Area, for attendant expenses, and for improvements to such property. The United Kingdom accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Section 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. 1The term "foreign currency securities" in this survey is to be read as meaning securities expressed in a currency of a country outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations, however, are applicable to foreign currency securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. 574 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange control) .2 Exceptionally, sterling payments to Hong Kong are screened under Hong Kong regulations to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's f ree market, and special restrictions are imposed on the disposal of assets of residents of Hong Kong. Control is also exer- cised over the acquisition of fore ign currency securities f rom the rest of the Sterling Area. Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, practically all commercial banks are authorized to approve most payments. Cer- tain capital issues and other borrowing in the United Kingdom by residents of other countries require the prior approval of the Capital Issues Committee. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Board of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area may be in any Sterling Area currency; those from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be in sterling f rom an External Account or in any specified currency,3 or in any other foreign currency fhat is free ly exchangeable for sterling. Payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area cu r rency; payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account or in any foreign currency. For security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally prescribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Accounts, or Suspense Accounts. 2 In addition to the United Kingdom, the Sterling Area comprises Australia, Burma, Ceylon, Cyprus, the Gambia, Ghana, Iceland, India, the Irish Republic, Jamaica, the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Kenya, the State of Kuwait, Libya, Malawi, Malaysia, Malta, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, Western Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Afr ica, South West Africa, Tanzania, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, and Zambia, together with all British Dominions, Protectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories not previously mentioned, except Canada and Rhodesia. 3The specified currencies are listed as fo l lows: Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 575 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no U.K. exchange control permission is required; for payments to other countries by residents of any territory of the Sterling Area, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Blocked Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Accounts (see be low), the sterling accounts of nonresidents, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds f rom sales of gold or foreign currency other than Rhodesian'pounds ( inc lud ing banknotes), and with sterling banknotes mailed f rom outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds ( inc lud ing banknotes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers from External Accounts and from other Rhodesian Accounts; payments by residents of Sterling Area territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to certain requirements; and payments by U.K. residents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of (1) the sale of foreign currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, (2) the maturity proceeds of U.K. Treasury bills, (3) permitted imports f rom Rhodesia which have been entered to customs in the United Kingdom, (4) insurance and freight charges resulting from permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Sterling Area territory, and (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade. Permitted debits include transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts; payments for living expenses in the Sterling Area of the account holder and his f am i ly; the cost of approved foreign exchange facilities for travel by the account holder; payments to Sterling Area residents for commercial debts due in respect of wages and salaries, directors' fees, pensions, patents, designs, trademarks, and royalties; payments to Sterling Area residents for (1) expenses arising out of property in the Sterling Area, (2) educational fees and incidental expenses, (3) insur- ance premiums on personal policies, (4) taxes due in the Sterling Area, (5) inheritances, and (6) bank and legal charges, medical fees, and various other personal payments; interest, dividends, and capital re- 576 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM payments on Rhodesian securities; authorized purchases of sterling securities and Rhodesian securities for account of Rhodesian residents; and purchases in the United Kingdom of Treasury bills to be held for Rhodesian account. Blocked Accounts. These accounts are applicable to residents of all countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia, Denmark, Norway, and Sweden (residents of the last three countries may trans- fer all their sterling funds to their respective countries). Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresidents, e.g., certain capital proceeds. Such funds may be used to purchase on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom most sterling securities which are not redeemable within five years from the date of acquisition.4 The income from such securi- ties, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, may be remitted to the country of the holder. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are permitted freely. Blocked Account sterling'is negotiable, mainly against U.S. dollars, in free markets abroad. The rates for blocked sterling, also called security sterling or switch sterling, remained within 1 per cent of parity between December 31, 1964 and December 31, 1965. The U.K. authorities permit nonresidents of the Sterling Area (except residents of Rhodesia) who hold blocked funds in other parts of the Sterling Area to transfer these to Blocked Accounts in the United Kingdom, subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities of the country concerned, and to invest or negotiate the blocked sterling in accordance with the above. Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Accounts. Rhodesian owners of U.K. and other sterling securities may have the proceeds of any sale of such securities credited only to a Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Account. These accounts may be used only for appropriate reinvestment Subject to control or sold freely to another Rhodesian resident for such invest- ment. Balances on these accounts may not be dealt with as security sterling. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes, countries outside the United Kingdom other than Rhodes ia3 are divided into five groups: other Sterling 4 Sterling securities are those securities that are not considered foreign currency securities. 5 For security reasons, imports licensing; virtually all are prohibited. from Rhodesia are controlled by import 577 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Area countries, the Dollar Area,6 Japan, the Eastern Area,7 and the Relaxation Area (all other countries) .8 Imports f rom countries other than those in the Eastern Area (except Rhodesia) are admitted under an Open General License without quantitative restriction, with the fo l low ing exceptions: (a) from other Sterling Area countries, 13 commodities or groups of commodi- t i e s ;9 (b) f rom the Relaxation Area, 4 commodities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (a) above; (c) from the Dollar Area, 6 commodities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (b) above; and (d) from Japan, 2 commodities or groups of commodities, in addition to those covered by (b) above. Imports from countries in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without quantitative restriction if they appear in a specific list, which covers a range of raw materials, minerals, metals, and some manufac tured and semimanufactured goods. Imports f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, and Poland of certain other manufac tured goods also are admitted without quantitative restriction under open individual license. All other imports f rom the Eastern Area require a specific import license. Most articles subject to restriction can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. Imports of cereals and cereal products are subject to minimum import prices enforced through variable import levies. Permission to import f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General License or some other form of license, carries with it an entitlement to purchase foreign exchange or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, pro- vided that evidence of customs entry is submitted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of payment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England in all cases where the payment is considered genuine and in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continuance of the practice is considered to be essential. Exchange control forms are not required for payments to residents of the Sterling A rea; neither are they required for payments 6 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 7 The Eastern Area comprises A lban ia, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Nor th Korea, People's Republic of Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 8 Following the Commercial Treaty with Japan (announced in November 1962), Japan will ultimately be treated as being in the Relaxation Area. For a transitional period, certain items will continue to be restricted. 9 Coffee and coffee preparations from all sources require a specific license for statistical purposes only. 578 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM to residents of other countries, unless the payment exceeds £2,000 and evidence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before making the remittance, or unless foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of £250 is being bought forward. Most imports from all sources are subject to a temporary import charge of 10 per cent of the landed value. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange control authorization, which (except for payments to residents of Rhodesia)10 is granted free ly, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The completion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding £250. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for transfers on account of many categories of current invisibles without any limitation, and for other categories up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted are approved by the Bank of England, provided that no unauthorized capital outflow is involved. Authorized banks may dispatch sterling banknotes to nonresidents except residents of Rhodesia against payment in sterling f rom an External Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. An allowance of up to £250 a person a year in foreign exchange other than Rhodesian pounds may be made available to residents without formality by banks and authorized travel agents for personal travel outside the Sterling Area except to Rhodesia; they may grant further amounts not exceeding £250 a trip subject to completion of a currency declaration by the traveler. For travel for business or pro- fessional reasons, an allowance of up to £250 a trip may similarly be made available without formality by banks and authorized travel agents; in excess of that amount they may issue, upon completion of a currency declaration by the traveler, an allowance of £20 a day, up to a maximum of £1,500 for any one jou rney. Applications for larger amounts or for more than £250 within a period of a month must be referred to the Bank of England, wh ich approves them provided that it is satisfied that the exchange is required for genuine travel purposes. Special regulations apply to travel to Rhodesia. All travel exchange purchased must be recorded in the traveler's passport. In addition, travelers may take with them up to £25 in sterling banknotes, which 10 For security reasons, virtually all current payments to Rhodesia are pro- hibited, except when these result from permitted trade in goods. 579 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM may be exchanged abroad for foreign currency for travel expenditure only; but those traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and certain exports, mostly of a strategic character, to any other destination require export licenses. All other exports are free of license. Except for exports to Rhodesia, exchange control procedure is waived for exports not exceeding £2,000 f.o.b., other than gifts in kind, for which the upper limit is £100 f.o.b. Exporters to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must obtain payment within six months of shipment, unless special permission has been granted to collect at a later date. Exchange receipts must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Permitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for in a specified currency (see footnote 3) prior to shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts in specified currencies (see footnote 3) on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Recipients of foreign exchange may, however, be permitted to retain their exchange in controlled accounts if it is needed for operating purposes. Also, residents are permitted to retain, for use during their next trip abroad, the unused portion of any previous travel exchange allocation, for a period of three months after the exchange was originally obtained. British and foreign banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesian pounds from certain capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities and the sale or liquidation of direct invest- ments situated outside the Sterling Area) may, in certain circumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as invest- ment currency or security dollars once permission has been given) for the purchase abroad of marketable foreign currency securities or sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purpose. If permission is not forthcoming and the foreign exchange is one of the specified currencies (see footnote 3 ), it must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. If permission is granted, however, the equivalent in specified currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must 580 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM be sold to an authorized bank for sterling at the official market rate of exchange.11 Applications to have regarded as investment currency any foreign currency belonging to residents of the United Kingdom who are "exempted foreign nationals" are normally considered only in respect of assets held at the time of designation as resident of the United Kingdom by persons so designated prior to July 29, 1965, or of securities acquired through the investment currency market. Proceeds of a capital nature in currencies other than specified currencies are not subject to surrender; however, they may be disposed of only with permission, which may be obtained for the use of such funds by the recipient for investments and for other payments outside the Sterling Area. Residents of the United Kingdom may make capital transfers with- out restriction to other Sterling Area countries, except Hong Kong (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. For security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the fo rm of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhodesian securities, or by any other means. For direct investments outside the Sterling Area, off ic ial exchange is not made available. Such direct investments may, with authorization, be financed with invest- ment currency or by suitable long-term borrowing outside the Sterling Area. The purchase of foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area must also be financed with investment currency or, in some cases, by long-term borrowing outside the Sterling Area. The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or apartment for personal use in countries outside the Sterling Area requires specific approval and must either be made f rom another U.K. resident for sterling or from a nonresident with property currency; payment for attendant expenses and improve- ments, but not maintenance, must also be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a fam i ly, and purchases of property currency are limited to reasonable amounts. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due f rom the estates of deceased residents: so also are capital payments under l i fe and other insurance policies taken up by nonresidents with resident insurance companies. Residents emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia are granted a settling-in allowance of up to £5,000 in foreign 11A similar 25 per cent requirement applies to transactions by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area; however, for securities owned prior to April 7, 1965, or any other foreign currency securities derived therefrom by way of "switches," the requirement applies only on outright sales for sterling or for reinvestment in sterling securities. 581 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM exchange for a fam i ly unit. An additional amount of £3,600 for a fam i ly unit is permitted to be transferred at annual intervals thereafter if the emigrant is, at the time of his emigration from the United Kingdom, a national of a country outside the Sterling Area and is returning to that country for permanent residence. Emigrants are, on their departure f rom the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their remaining assets are treated accordingly. The exceptions are that any sterling balances not used for the settling-in allowance, any proceeds at maturity of sterling securities that are redeemed during the period of the next five years, and certain other sterling capital pay- ments which would normally be transferable to a nonresident are subject to restriction but may be credited to a Blocked Account. Sums so credited are realizable as security sterling. Emigrants to Denmark, Norway, and Sweden are permitted to t rans fer all their funds. The participation of fore ign capital as a direct investment in the United Kingdom is subject to individual authorization, which is nor- mally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is sup- plied in an approved manner of payment (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the foreign exchange received must be surrendered at rates ruling in the off ic ial market. Where an investment is being made (including take- overs or participation in an existing business), the authorities must be satisfied that an acceptable proportion of the capital subscription will be made by foreign remittance. A direct investment by a nonresident made af ter Janua ry 1, 1950 with the approval of the exchange control authorities may be sold or otherwise liquidated, and the entire proceeds thereof, including any capital appreciation, which are due to the nonresident may be repatriated at any time. Payments abroad that are due to a nonresident in respect of matured capital obligations are also permitted. Other payments in respect of nonresident-owned capital investment, except that owned by residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, are normally credited to Blocked Accounts. Foreign-owned firms and foreign individuals must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and U.K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain con- sent from the Treasury before borrowing in the United Kingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. Such per- mission is normally given for borrowing for the purpose of financing the company's day-to-day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of manufac tur ing capacity except for companies whose activities are regarded as bringing special advantages to the U.K. economy. 582 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Transactions in securities of all types may be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom. Residents are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area, and, af ter 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the off ic ial market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment currency) in other marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other residents for such investments or for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area. When fore ign currency securities are sold on a U.K. stock exchange for sterling, an amount of investment cur- rency in the fo rm of specified currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be purchased in the investment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers mak ing a "book" and certain other operators may on application be exempt from the 25 per cent requirement for certain of their operations. Investment currency held for a continuous period of six months ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the fo rm of specified currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of each six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the off ic ial market rate of exchange.12 U.K. investment trusts are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow foreign currency outside the Sterling Area at long term, for the purpose of making portfolio investments in foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with permis- sion, arrange day-to-day borrowing of foreign currency, whether f rom U.K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in foreign cur- rency securities, but not to finance holdings of such securities as investments. Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are not prevented by the U.K. regulations f rom buy ing and selling sterling and Rhodesian securities in the United Kingdom, but they must obtain the permission of the U.K authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United Kingdom in which a nonresident is involved as either transferor or transferee, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. U.K. companies do not require prior authorization to issue sterling bearer securities. 12 Investment currency may be invested temporarily in short-term government bonds (with up to six months to run before final ma tu r i ty) or in six-month Treasury bills or other forms of recognized short-term money market paper with- out incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of the paper. 583 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Nonresidents except Rhodesian residents may buy any securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom against payment f rom an External Accoun t; against payment f rom a Blocked Account they may buy most sterling securities. Securities so purchased may be exported from the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be sold by nonresidents on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom for settlement only in foreign currency. In no circumstances may settle- ment be in sterling. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United Kingdom other than on a stock exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Non- residents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or reinvested in a sterling security having at least five years to maturity (special facilities apply to residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden). Interest, dividends, etc., f rom such securities and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable may be remitted to the country of residence (except Rhodesia) of the owner or credited to an External Account. Warrants issued by registrars, company secretaries, and paying agents in respect of capital payments on matured securities registered in the names of nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may be dispatched freely to addressees outside the Sterling Area, and these warrants may be paid by crediting sterling to an External Account. Changes during 1965 During the year the Capital Issues Committee looked more carefully at applications for borrowing in the United Kingdom by overseas residents, including borrowing to finance direct investments in the Sterling Area. January 1. Additional imports from Japan were freed from individual licensing. January 19. Details were released of the tax rebate scheme for exports that was announced in October 1964. The rates of the rebate would for the various industry groups range between 1 per cent and 3 /4 per cent, with an average of about 1.9 per cent. March 15. Imports of refined sugar required a specific import license. Imports of nonfissile radioactive material were freed from specific licensing control. April 7. The regulations concerning the investment currency market were changed. When U.K. residents (or other Sterling Area residents operating through U.K. banks or brokers) sold or presented for redemption foreign currency securities, whether in the United Kingdom 584 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM or outside the Sterling Area, the equivalent in specified currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds had, with a few exceptions, to be exchanged for sterling at the official market rate of exchange; the balance of the proceeds continued to be available as investment currency. This 25 per cent requirement also applied to the sale or liquidation proceeds of direct investments outside the Sterling Area. The following categories of foreign currency accruals to Sterling Area residents no longer were eligible for disposal through the investment currency market: (1) g if ts and charitable donations; (2) receipts under wills and trusts; (3) assets acquired by "exempted fore ign nationals" a f ter they were designated residents of the United Kingdom; and (4) restitution payments. A property currency market was established. U.K. residents (or other Sterling Area residents operating through U.K. banks or brokers) could no longer buy property outside the Sterling Area with investment currency. Except when such property was being purchased f rom another U.K. resident for sterling, residents could use only the proceeds of the sale outside the Sterling Area of property situated outside the Sterling Area and already under U.K. ownership. Foreign currency borrowing was no longer permitted for private purchases of such property. The criteria for the allocation of official exchange for direct invest- ment projects outside the Sterling Area were made more stringent. Japanese yen and Spanish pesetas were added to the list of specified currencies. All securities payable or optionally payable in a specified currency were designated as prescribed securities. The requirement that sterling securities must, if purchased in the Sterling Area for non- residents, be paid for with External Account sterling if these securities were also prescribed securities was amended to permit purchase with Blocked Account sterling. A stricter control was imposed on the issue and use of foreign exchange for all forms of travel outside the Sterling Area, but genuine travel expenditure remained unrestricted. The amount of sterling bank- notes that travelers could take out was reduced from £50 to £25. The customs authorities intensified their checks to ensure that export proceeds were received in the proper form and within the proper period. April 8. The Secretary of State for Economic A f fa i rs addressed a letter to the chairmen of some 300 leading companies urging industry to cut back overseas investment projects that would not yield quick or substantial returns to the balance of payments. It was also suggested that a greater proportion of overseas earnings be remitted to the United Kingdom. April 28. The temporary import charge was reduced to 10 per cent. 585 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM May 4. The Bank of England announced that it was prepared to consider applications on behalf of residents of the United Kingdom or of other parts of the Sterling Area to treat as investment currency, subject to fu lf i l lment of the 25 per cent requirement, capital funds accruing in foreign currency and fa l l ing into the following categories: (1) the proceeds of sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Sterling A rea; (2) cash balances of immigrants on redesignation as residents of the Sterling A rea; (3) savings from earnings of residents of the Sterling Area who have been employed outside the Sterling Area for not less than two years immediately prior to the application; (4) the capital proceeds of l i fe and endowment policies; and (5) other items of a capital nature, except gifts, charitable donations, capital distribu- tions under wills or trusts, and restitution payments. The distinction, for purposes of reinvestment of investment currency in foreign currency securities, between the proceeds of prescribed and nonprescribed securities was removed. Investment currency could temporarily be invested in short-term paper without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale of such paper. Investment currency held a f ter May 4 for a continuous period of six months would cease to be investment currency, unless an amount of investment currency in the fo rm of specified currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held was, at the end of each six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. The 25 per cent requirement had to be fu l f i l led on all sales for sterling as investment currency of investment currency acquired af ter May 4. Instructions were issued concerning the calculation and fu lf i l lment of the 25 per cent requirement. When the investment currency to be purchased was different f rom that realized on sale, the conversion rate would be the cross rate in the off ic ial market, but where no rate was available in the official markets in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, the free market rate abroad could be used. July 27. The allocation of o f f ic ial exchange for direct investment outside the Sterling Area was suspended; such investment had to be financed with investment currency or by borrowing outside the Sterling Area. July 27. The Governor of the Bank of England, in a letter to the banks, stated the o f f ic ial aim of limiting to the greatest possible extent facilities for financing imports of manu fac tu red goods for home con- sumption and imports for stockbuilding, and requested the banks to scrutinize with greater care all requests for credit when there was prima fac ie evidence that its purpose was to facilitate payment for imports. 586 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM July 29. The following categories of foreign currency accruals to Sterling Area residents no longer were eligible for disposal through the investment currency market: (1) cash balances of immigrants (including "exempted foreign nationals") who wrere redesignated as Sterling Area residents on or a f ter July 29, 1965; (2) savings from earnings of persons who had been employed outside the Sterling A rea; (3) the capital proceeds of l i fe and endowment policies; and (4) mineral rights. All foreign currency securities held by immigrants at the time of their redesignation on or a f ter July 29, 1965 as residents of the United Kingdom must be placed in restricted deposit, except those for which the owner was granted exemption on the grounds of his nationality; applications to permit their placing in clean deposit, which makes the proceeds eligible for disposal through the investment currency market, would not be considered until two years af ter redesignation. During the two-year period, permission to dispose of the securities normally would not be given unless an amount of investment currency equivalent to the sale proceeds or value of the securities was sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. The same provisions applied to (1) foreign currency securities held at redesignation by immigrants into other parts of the Sterling Area, if the securities were held or taken into deposit by an authorized depository in the United Kingdom, and (2) foreign currency securities purchased outside the Sterling Area with savings from earnings of Sterling Area residents who had been employed outside the Area for at least three years (when the period spent abroad was less, disposal at other than the off ic ial market rate of exchange would not normally be a l lowed). Comparable treatment was given to the assets of "exempted foreign nationals" designated residents of the United Kingdom on or af ter July 29, 1965. Advance payments for imports required the approval of the Bank of England; approval was granted in all cases where the payment was considered genuine and in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continuance of the practice was considered to be essential. Previously t imports covered by a valid import license could be paid for at any time on production of evidence of purchase and of value of the goods. Forward purchases of foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of £250 for imports required exchange control approval; the supervision of the granting of forward cover by U.K. banks on merchan t ing transactions also was tightened. The general permission to banks to grant loans to corporate bodies resident in the Sterling Area and controlled by nonresidents was withdrawn. The approval of the Bank of England was required before any new loans or any increase in existing loans were granted, or 587 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Treasury bills or securities were lent, by U.K. residents to corporate bodies and branches (other than banks) resident in the Sterling Area which were directly or indirectly controlled by persons resident outside the Sterling Area; sterling loans and overclrafts to most categories of such corporate bodies and branches would henceforth be normally granted only for day-to-day borrowing for working capital purposes, but existing loan facilities could be continued for a reasonable period until alternative arrangements could be made. November 11. Following its unilateral declaration of independence, Rhodesia was excluded from the Sterling Area. Rhodesian pounds became a foreign currency for the purposes of the Exchange Control Act, and dealings in Rhodesian pounds in the United Kingdom were restricted. Persons resident in Rhodesia and their accounts were excluded from certain exemptions normally available to other non- residents and their accounts. The sterling accounts of residents of Rhodesia maintained in the United Kingdom were redesignated as Rhodesian Accounts; the opening of these accounts required the approval of the Bank of Eng land, and all credits arid debits to such accounts required Treasury permission. Payments from Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts would not be allowed. Payments by U.K. residents to residents of Rhodesia could be made only in sterling to Rhodesian Accounts. U.K. exports to Rhodesia had to be paid for in External Account sterling, Rhodesian Account sterling, or in a specified currency. Securities payable in Rhodesian pounds became foreign cur- rency securities, unless they were also payable in a Sterling Area currency, in which case they remained sterling securities; purchases of such foreign currency securities by U.K. residents f rom nonresidents and from residents of other parts of the Sterling Area would not normally be authorized. Existing general permissions for transactions in any securities held for residents of Rhodesia were withdrawn. Restrictions were imposed on transactions by U.K. residents in securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. Restrictions also were placed on transactions in gold and Treasury bills held for the account of Rhodesian residents. Permissions covering the establishment of credits and the granting of loans and overdrafts were withdrawn, but existing irrevocable credits could be honored and a general permission was given to open credits when direct exports to Rhodesia were involved. Permission was given to credit certain current and capital items accruing to residents of Rhodesia to Rhodesian Accounts or Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Accounts as appropriate, but the sale proceeds of Rhodesian-owned sterling securities and Rhodesian Blocked Account sterling could not be dealt with as "security sterling." All imports f rom and all exports to Rhodesia required individual licenses; most imports were subsequently prohibited. British Commonwealth preference on 588 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM goods of Rhodesian origin was suspended. Rhodesia was no longer allowed access to the London capital market. November 11. All licenses to deal in Rhodesian currency, including banknotes, were revoked. November 23. Cash gifts f rom U.K. residents to residents of Rhodesia were restricted to an aggregate of £50 a donor from November 11 until further notice. December 1. In addition to the existing prohibition on the transfer of capital from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia, most current pay- ments by U.K. residents to Rhodesian residents, except those in respect of permitted trade, were prohibited; the existing permissions relating to payments in respect of travel, wages and salaries, and contractual commitments such as pensions, interest, and dividends were withdrawn, and sums due to residents of Rhodesia in respect thereof would be held back. Payments in sterling to and from Rhodesian Accounts continued to be allowed in respect of trade, including any relative freight and insurance costs, directly between Rhodesia and the Sterling Area when such trade was permitted by the territory concerned, but U.K. residents could no longer merchant goods between Rhodesia and any other country. Payment for exports f rom the United Kingdom to Rhodesia had to be made in fu ll before shipment. U.K. firms could not normally make remittances to subsidiaries or branches in Rhodesia, and no U.K. bank facilities were allowed to or in favor of residents of Rhodesia. Facilities for travel to Rhodesia were limited to approved official or business purposes. All security transactions in which residents of Rhodesia were in any way concerned had to be referred to the Bank of England. December 3. The U.K. Government suspended f rom office all members of the Board of the Reserve Bank of Rhodesia and appointed other persons to act in their place. Central banks were advised that all authorities of, or given by, the previous Governor and Directors were canceled. December 6. An Order in Council established that banks in the United Kingdom holding Rhodesian bank assets could be required by the Treasury to supply informa t ion about such assets. December 7. Existing general permissions concerning travel outside the Sterling Area were withdrawn insofar as they would relate (1) to travel to Rhodesia, or (2) to persons normally resident in Rhodesia who were temporarily in the United Kingdom. All applications for travel to Rhodesia had to be submitted to the Bank of England. In general, applications for travel exchange by residents of the United Kingdom or the rest of the Sterling Area were authorized up to £250 a 589 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM person (excluding fa re s) for approved official or business purposes, but those for personal trips were considered only in the most exceptional circumstances. The corresponding allocation to persons normally resi- dent in Rhodesia and returning there f rom the United Kingdom was £50 a person. December 7. Permitted payments to persons resident in Rhodesia made through the United Kingdom on behalf of residents of any country could be made only in sterling to Rhodesian Accounts. When permission for payments to persons resident in Rhodesia was withheld, monies due could not be disbursed or used in any way, except for credit to Suspense Accounts and for payment of U.K. income tax and safe custody charges on the monies in question. All existing Bank of England authorities for continuing payments to Rhodesian Accounts for such purposes as pensions, wages, salaries, alimony, annuities, and income under trusts were revoked. The lists of permitted credits and debits to Rhodesian Accounts were revised; no permission would be given for debits in payment of exports to Rhodesia from any country outside the Sterling Area. New regulations concerning transactions in securities by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia were issued. Income and capital repayments on securities held for, or owned by, residents of Rhodesia could no longer be credited to Rhodesian Accounts or Rhodesian Blocked Sterling Accounts but had to be paid into Suspense Accounts. Subject to the rules applicable to sterling securities, Rhodesian securi- ties could be dealt in between U.K. residents and could be bought by residents of any other country except Rhodesia (sales by residents of such countries were permitted subject to additional sa fegua rds ). No credit or guarantee facilities of any kind could be granted to residents of Rhodesia. December 14- An Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agreement and related agreements were signed; the former would become effective on July 1,1966. December 17. The United Kingdom prohibited the import of oil and oil products into Rhodesia, and prohibited British nationals f rom supplying or carrying oil and oil products for Rhodesian use. December 18. Residents of Rhodesia generally were required to pay in specified currencies for services of a commercial character and for any goods purchased from the United Kingdom; the United Kingdom suggested to other members of the Sterling Area that they follow a parallel policy. Proceeds from exports to Rhodesia could no longer be received in Rhodesian or External Account sterling. Rhodesian Accounts could no longer be debited for payments to U.K. residents for exports f rom the United Kingdom to Rhodesia, or for payments to residents of the Sterling Area in respect of insurance and freight 590 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM charges f rom trade between Rhodesia and the Sterling Area. With respect to permitted credits to Rhodesian Accounts, authorized banks could in certain cases inquire if the Bank of England would allow an alternative means of payment. December 18. Interim arrangements covering imports of textiles in 1966 were announced. The arrangements would distinguish between countries under Open General License; Eastern Area countries; Japan; India and Hong Kong; and global quota countries comprising all other countries, including the British dependent territories. For the latter group of countries global quotas would replace all existing individual country quotas and certain arrangements for specific ind iv idual licenses. December 23. The International Monetary Fund concurred in the establishment of par values for the new monetary units introduced in a number of nonmetropolitan territories in respect of which the United Kingdom has accepted the Fund Agreement. These par values, per U.S. dollar, were 1.71429 East Caribbean dollars, 1.71429 Guyana dollars, 0.357143 South Arab ian dinar, and 0.476190 Bah ra in dinar. 591 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15%! grains of gold %0 fine, which is equivalent to US$35 per fine ounce, at which price (exclusive of hand l ing charges and expenses) the Treasury buys gold f rom both off ic ial and nonoff ic ial sources and sells it abroad only to governments, central banks, and, under certain circumstances, inter- national institutions, for the settlement of in terna t ional balances and other legitimate monetary purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign payments, except those imposed for security reasons on transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Ma in land China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. The United States notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Controls The Treasury Department deals with license applications for trans- actions invo lv ing the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations; it is also in charge of licensing transactions involving the authorities or nationals of Cuba, under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Depart- ment administers import quotas for certain commodities. Import quotas on specified dairy products and certain wheat and wheat products are administered by the Department of Agriculture through the issuance of import licenses and special permits, respectively. The import quota on sugar is prorated among eligible importers under regulations administered by the Department of Agriculture. Licenses for imports of crude petroleum and most petroleum products are issued by the Department of the Interior. For items subject to export control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), the Department of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. Imports and Import Payments Imports of merchandise known or believed to be of Mainland Chinese, Cuban, North Korean, or North Vietnamese origin, Chinese- type merchandise from other areas, as well as all goods containing Cuban components, and all goods imported f rom or through Ma in land China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam are subject to license. Import quotas are in effec t, pursuant to Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, for cotton, certain cotton waste, and cotton products, wheat and wheat products, specified dairy products, 592 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES and peanuts. With the exception of the import quotas for peanuts and certain cotton and cotton products, the quotas above and those for sugar (pursuant to special legislation) are on a coun try-of-produc t ion basis. Under the Philippines Trade Agreement Revision Act of 1955, import duties applicable to the Philippines are 20 per cent of the general most-favored-nation rate on all products; imports of Philippine cordage, along with sugar, are subject to absolute quotas; and for Philippine cigars, tobacco, coconut oil, and buttons, the preferen t ial tar iff rate applies only to a specific quantity of imports. The U i i ted States is a party to the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrangement. The Arrangement authorizes importing countries to request exporting countries to limit or restrain exports of cotton textiles under specified conditions. The United States has concluded compre- hensive bilateral agreements with respect to the cotton textile trade with certain ma jor supplying countries, as well as a limited number of restraint arrangements with certain other countries for specific cotton textile products. In most of these instances, the exporting country limits its exports of cotton textiles to the U.S. ma rke t; in a few cases, the United States has imposed import restrictions. Global quotas are imposed on imports of crude petroleum and petroleum products, except those imported overland (i.e., by pipeline, motor carrier, or r a i l ), which are not restricted. Payments and t rans fe rs abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions which are permitted only under license: these are payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports (except designated nonstrategic goods) to countries in the European Soviet bloc (except Poland and Rumania) and all exports (except publications and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam are subject to vali- dated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials to other countries (except Canada) also require validated licenses. The licens- ing requirements applicable to Poland and Rumania are less restric- tive than those applicable to other European Soviet-bloc countries. Exports of certain commodities to all destinations have from time to time been subject to control for supply reasons. Copper is the only commodity presently under "short supply" export control. The ship- ment of arms, ammunition, and petroleum products to Rhodesia has been prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. 593 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except where they involve Mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control, except to the extent that the provisions referred to above regard ing Ma in land China, Cuba, North Korea, or North Viet-Nam are involved. U.S. purchasers of fo re ign securities are subject to an Interest Equalization Tax of 15 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 1.05 per cent to 15 per cent, depend ing on maturity, for certain acquisitions of debt obligations, inc lud ing bank loans, with a period rema in ing to maturity of one year or more. M a jor exemptions f rom the tax are direct investments, investments in less developed countries, the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the United States determines that the application of the tax will have such consequences for a foreign country as to imperil the stability of the international monetary system, and purchases from other U.S. holders. A voluntary fore ign credit restraint program has resulted in the establishment of "guidelines" for banks, for nonbank financial institutions, and for nonf inanc ial business. Changes during 1965 February 10. In a special message to Congress, the President announced a voluntary fore ign credit restraint program which was subsequently embodied in sets of "guidelines" for banks, for nonbank financial institutions, and for non f inanc ial businesses. At the same time the Interest Equa l iza t ion Tax was made applicable to bank loans of maturities of one year or more, and Congress was asked to extend the tax beyond its expiry date of December 31, 1965 and to make it applicable to nonbank credits of one to three years' maturity. (Previ- ously the tax had not been applicable to nonbank credits of less than three years nor to any bank loans.) New securities issued or guaranteed by the Government of Japan would be exempted f rom the tax up to an aggregate amount of $100 million per annum. (An Executive Order to this effect was signed on April 2, 1965.) The exemption of new or original Canadian security issues was continued in connection with arrangements agreed between the Canadian and U.S. authorities concerning the financing of the Canadian balance of payments. February 12. Walnut logs were removed f rom "short supply" export control. 594 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES March 28. Export licenses were no longer required for shipments of certain goods to Hong Kong and Macao or for certain other com- modities to most destinations. May 14- The application of the Interest Equalization Tax was extended to the Bahamas, Bermuda, Ire land, Kuwait, and Portugal. July 1. The Export Control Act was extended for another four years. The new legislation contained a statement expressing U.S. opposition to foreign boycotts of f r iend ly nations and provided for a fine for violations of the Act or any regulation, order, or license issued under it. Subsequently export controls were tightened on commodities and technical data that could be used to produce or test nuc lear weapons, but the requirement for ind iv idual licenses was removed f rom 250 U.S.-made consumer items when exported to the U.S.S.R. and other East European countries. October 1. The du ty-free exemption for imports by re turn ing resi- dents was reduced f rom $100 wholesale value to $100 retail, and other limitations on such imports were introduced. October 9. A new Act extended the Interest Equalization Tax through July 31, 1967 and broadened its coverage to include nonbank debt obligations of one year or more to maturity. October 22. Quota limitations on the importation of unmanu fac tu red lead and zinc were terminated, effective immediately for ores and concentrates and effective in 30 days for the metals. November 12-December 28. The shipment of arms, ammunition, and petroleum products to Rhodesia was prohibited. U.S. oil companies were requested to observe the embargo on the shipment to Rhodesia of petroleum products f rom any source. Rhodesia's import quota for sugar was canceled and credit guarantees were w i thdrawn f rom U.S. trade with Rhodesia. November 18. Quotas were placed on the export of copper scrap. License requirements were placed on the export of semifabricated copper to all destinations except Canada and continued on exports of refined and unrefined copper. December 6. It was announced that the voluntary foreign credit restraint program would be continued in 1966, and the "guidelines" for the three types of institutions covered in the program as announced on February 10 were revised. For banks and other financial institutions the program was similar to the 1965 "guidelines" and permitted some expansion in credit to nonresidents. Non f inanc ial corporations, how- ever, were asked to make more strenuous efforts to cut their dollar outflows. It was announced that the application of the Interest Equal- 595 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES ization Tax would be extended to securities or long-term debt obliga- tions involving Abu Dhabi, Bahra in, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, the Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libya, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia. December 8. It was announced that the basic arrangement with Canada regarding Canad ian access to the U.S. capital market under exemption f rom the Interest Equalization Tax for new security issues would be continued in connection with understandings between the two Governments concerning the financing of the Canadian balance of payments. December 20. Consequent upon the signing of the Automotive Products Trade Act of 1965 on October 21, the provisions for duty- free entry of automotive products f rom Canada envisaged in the Agreement Concerning Automotive Products between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of Canada of January 16, 1965 entered into force. Du ty-free treatment was extended retroactively to January 18, 1965 to automobile trucks, motor buses, and other motor vehicles, and chassis the re fo r, of Canadian origin, and to listed original motor vehicle equipment of Canad ian origin obtained by or for a motor vehicle manu fac tu rer in the United States and which was a fabr ica ted component intended for use as original equipment in the manu fac tu re in the United States of a motor vehicle. December 22. The allowable level of residual fuel imports f rom all sources for the current allocation period was increased, and it was announced that some fu r ther liberalization of such imports would take place in the allocation period beginning on April 1, 1966. 596 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA f r an c, which is offi- cially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f r an c, giving the relationship CFAF 246.853 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats deTAfr ique de POuest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at rates resulting f rom the relation CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f rancs, plus or minus a commission if an inward or outward t rans fer is involved. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r a nc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. An exchange tax is payable on all payments equivalent to more than CFAF 10,000 to countries outside the French Franc Area, except pay- ments made by the Government and those related to exports. The tax is as fo l lows: Tax CFAF 250 CFAF 1,000 CFAF 1,500 CFAF 2,500 CFAF 3,000 CFAF 3,500 Payable on CFAF 10,001-25,000 CFAF 25,001-100,000 CFAF 100,001-300,000 CFAF 300,001-500,000 CFAF 500,001-1,000,000 Amounts over CFAF. 1,000,000 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Office. Exchange transactions are hand led by the commercial banks under the direction of the Exchange Off ice. Import and export licenses are issued by the Department of Commerce; the former require the approval of the Exchange Office when they are issued for countries outside the French Franc Area. Import certificates are issued free ly by the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is a member of the French Franc Area, and settlements with other countries in the French Franc Area are made in any cur- 1The CFA f ranc circulating in Upper Volta is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de 1'Afrique de I'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the common currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 597 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA rency of that Area. Settlements with other countries are usually made through banks in France, in any of the currencies of those countries — provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Francs. There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrangement with Ghana. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France, but in Upper Volta these accounts have only limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by a jo int French-Upper Volta Committee. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports from EEC countries other than France and for imports from most other countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders. For certain goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation arfe issued. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the required documents (to prove that an order has been placed) are submitted to the author- ized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are, in principle, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, but the authority for such approval has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents from profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. The allowance for tourist travel is CFAF 250,000 for each trip, and exchange for business travel expenses is freely granted. Foreign workers may repatriate up to 100 per cent of their salaries. Payments for other invisibles are subject to administrative decision. Travelers to other countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue within 598 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA the French Franc Area. Travelers going direct to other countries in the Area may take out, without limit, banknotes issued by any bank of issue in the Area, with the exception of those issued by the BCEAO, for which the limit is CFAF 75,000. Travelers going to countries out- side the French Franc Area may take out in banknotes or coins up to a maximum of F 1,000 in metropolitan francs, or up to 75,000 in CFA or CFP francs, or up to the equivalent of F 750 in notes and coins denominated in any French Franc Area currency other than the French franc. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made free ly but for statistical purposes require a license from the Commerce Office. Exports to all other countries are permitted freely, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the exchange proceeds. Certain commodities on the prohibited list can be exported in special circumstances only, and they require a license issued by the Depart- ment of Commerce or the competent ministry. Export proceeds in currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area that are not used to make authorized payments abroad must be surrendered within a month f rom the date of their receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles All amounts due in respect of services f rom residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, and all income exceeding the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 f rom foreign securities, must be collected, and they must be surrendered within one month of receipt. Travelers from other countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, and Togo) may bring in any amount of CFA banknotes issued by the BCEAO. Travelers from other countries may bring in up to CFAF 75,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO. All travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by a bank of issue of the French Franc Area other than the BCEAO, as well as any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. The import of Guinean and Malian currency is prohibited. Capital Capital movements between Upper Volta and other French Franc Area countries are free of control; those between Upper Volta and all other countries require approval. 599 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Law No. 25/61/AN of July 1961 and Law No. 14/62/AN of June 1962 provide preferential treatment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Under the latter law, two preferential categories (A and B) are established, in accordance with which preferential treatment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified, approved enterprises for periods of up to 30 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiated between the investor and the Government; and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of special importance to the national economy. Law No. 25/61/AN sets up an assistance fund for new industries. Changes during 1965 March 1. Settlements with Rumania ceased to be made on a bilateral basis, as the bilateral payments agreement between France and Rumania, which was also applicable to Upper Volta, was terminated. 600 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960, a par value for the Uruguayan Peso was estab- lished by Uruguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Certain exchange transactions take place in an official exchange market conducted by the Bank of the Republic; from time to time the Bank adjusts its fixed buying and selling rates. The proceeds from basic exports must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic, which sells exchange for a limited range of official payments. All other permitted exchange transactions take.place in an interbank free market (parallel market) with a freely fluctuating rate. On December 31, 1965, the official buying and selling rates of the Bank of the Republic were Ur$58.90 and Ur$59.90 per US$1, respectively, while the interbank free market rate was about Ur$64.00 per US$1. A tax of %0 of 1 per cent is payable on all funds received f rom abroad and, with minor exceptions, on all funds remitted abroad for purposes other than payments for imports. The proceeds of most exports are subject to taxes (detracciones), and many imports are subject to surcharges. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through the authorized banks and the I^ank of the Republic. The Bank of the Republic collects import surcharges and export taxes, holds the prepayments and advance deposits required for many imports, and receives export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uruguay has bilateral pay- ments agreements are made through accounts maintained in U.S. dollars as the accounting unit.1 Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration with the Bank of the Republic prior to placing orders abroad.2 Imports of certain goods 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Poland, and Spain. 2 On October 18, 1965, the Bank of the Republic suspended for 180 days the acceptance of import registrations for commodities subject to a surcharge of 60 per cent or more, with the exception of certain industrial materials not produced in Uruguay. At the end of the year, imports of certain other goods also remained suspended. 601 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY not included in the lists of freely permitted imports are prohibited; with these exceptions, imports are not subject to quantitative restric- tion. Exchange at the off ic ial rate is granted by the Bank of the Republic for certain imports of the Government and of public entities and for a few private imports that are considered indispensable. Exchange for all other imports must be obtained in the parallel market. Imports are classified in seven categories: goods in one category are not subject to surcharge; goods in the other six categories are subject to a surcharge of 30, 60, 90, 150, 225, or 300 per cent, which is payable at the time of registration. With the exception mainly of certain capital goods that cannot be registered unless they are financed abroad for a period of at least 3 years, all imports require prepayment of the equivalent of the c.i.f. value in Uruguayan pesos; the prepayment must be lodged with the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration and is re fundab le on application a f ter 8 months. For goods subject to the 150, 225, or 300 per cent surcharge, an advance deposit of 200 per cent is also required. The advance deposit must be made with the Bank of the Republic at the time the import is registered; it is refunded 9 months later or, for imports of a few specified items and imports of all goods not specifically listed, 12 months later. Imports of all items appearing in the Uruguayan concession list for trade with LAFTA countries or the special concession lists for Ecuador and Paraguay are exempt from advance deposit requirements; some of these items are also exempt f rom surcharges but are subject to the prepayment requirements, while the rest are subject to reduced percentages. All imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, to additional import duties ranging f rom 1.5 per cent to 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value and payable upon customs clearance. All imports valued at over US$1.82 are subject to consular charges of %0 of 1 per cent on the peso amount resulting f rom conversion of the f.o.b. value at a rate of Ur$18 per US$1;3 the amount of the charges is payable in foreign exchange, at a rate of Ur$l = US$2.10. Prepayments, advance deposits, and surcharges in most cases are calculated on average c.i.f. prices (aforos) established for many com- modities or on the actual c .i .f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the calculation is based on an off ic ia l ly assessed price (also referred to as aforo), wh ich usually is expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Imports ordinarily subject to the 30 per cent surcharge are liable to only two thirds of this surcharge if transported in Uruguayan ships. ?0n January 1, 1966 this conversion rate was changed to Ur$55 per US$1. 602 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely, subject to a tax of %0 of 1 per cent. Exchange for invisibles must be obtained in the parallel market. Companies constituted outside Uruguay are required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accruing in Uruguay and a further 10 per cent when transferr ing this income f rom Uruguay. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of most exports are subject to taxes (detracciones or retentions), which are withheld by the Bank of the Republic. For some commodities, the tax is stipulated in pesos by unit of export com- modity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of greasy wool the stipulated minimum is 25 per cent, while for washed and scoured wool, tops, wool yarn, and the by-products of combing and spinning it is 5 per cent; these percentages may be adjusted at 60-day intervals. The exchange proceeds of exports subject to taxes must be surrendered in fu ll to the Bank of the Republic, through banks authorized to deal in foreign exchange, not later than 10 working days after shipment has been authorized. For exports of wool and meat, minimum f.o.b. values (minimum surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. For wool, the minimum f.o.b. values per kilogram are as follows: US$1.20 for greasy wool; US$1.85 for scoured wool; US$1.51 for scoured skirtings; US$2.00 for tops; and US$0.60 for noil and combing by-products. Exports of worsted cloth and clothing receive a 22 per cent export subsidy on the f.o.b. value. Some 20 non- traditional export commodities receive export subsidies of 12 per cent to 20 per cent of their f.o.b. value and a re fund of surcharges levied on imported components. An indirect subsidy on exports of processed wool results from a reduction of export retentions by 5 per cent for skirtings, by 7 per cent for scoured wool, and by 12 per cent for tops. All exchange receipts from abroad are subject to a tax of %0 of 1 per cent. The export retention taxes presently applied to export proceeds are as follows. For greasy and scoured wool and wool tops, Ur$234.54, Ur$360.82, and Ur$388.16, respectively, per 10 kilograms. For dry sheepskins and dry cattle hides, Ur$141.00 and Ur$66.00, respectively, per 10 kilograms. For salted and pickled hides per 100 kilograms: calf and heifer hides Ur$886.00 (Ur$732.00 for r e j e c t s ); steer and cow hides Ur$693.00 (Ur$635.00 for re jec t s ); bull and ox hides Ur$385.00 (Ur$327.00 for re jec ts ); and unborn calf hides up to 10 kilograms Ur$193.00. Meat retentions are a fixed 33 per cent of f.o.b. values. 603 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY For oilseeds per 1,000 kilograms the retentions on the main export categories are linseed grain Ur$2,350.00; linseed oil Ur$l,980.00; lin- seed expeller Ur$l,320.00; and sunflower seed meal Ur$2,100.00. Exports of certain types of beef-dairy cows and wool ewes are pro- hibited. Exports of wheat are from time to time permitted up to certain quantities. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold in the parallel market. A tax of %0 of 1 per cent is payable on all funds received from abroad. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by either residents or non- residents are free, subject to a tax of %0 of 1 per cent. All outward transfers of private capital must be effected through the parallel market. Changes during 1965 January 11. The Bank of the Republic suspended its sales of foreign currency. It also announced that, until fur ther notice, it would not accept new import declarations. January 26. The minimum values for customs purposes (aforo values) for wool exports per kilogram were reduced as follows: greasy wool, from US$1.20 to US$0.80; scoured wool, from US$1.82 to US$1.23; scoured belly wool and lambs' wool, f rom US$1.50 to US$1.01; combed wool, from US$1.95 to US$1.35; noil and combing by-products, from US$0.78 to US$0.54. Any exchange received in excess of these official valuations could be sold in the free market. January 28. A new Tax Law entered into effect. A tax of 1 per cent was introduced on all sales of exchange for imports other than goods bearing no surcharge or a surcharge of up to 60 per cent; the tax would be levied in addition to the remittance tax of %0 of 1 per cent. Companies constituted outside Uruguay were required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accruing in Uruguay and a further 10 per cent when transferring this income f rom the country; these taxes replaced the former 20 per cent tax on profit remittances. The Tax Law also established new limits within which the Government was free to fix retentions on the peso proceeds of exports, as follows: greasy wool, 25-50 per cent; washed and scoured wool, tops, wool yarn, and the by-products of combing and spinning, 5-50 per cent; linseed and 604 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY linseed oil, expellers, and meal, 0.01-50 per cent; sunflowerseed and products (oil, expellers, and m e a l ), 0.01-50 per cent; groundnuts and groundnut oil, expellers, and meal, 0.01-50 per cent; wheat and wheat products, 0.01-50 per cent; beef and beef products 0.01-50 per cent; cattle hides and sheepskins, dry and salted, 0.01-50 per cent. The law exempted exports of horticultural products, fruits, and citrus fruit juices from customs duties and export taxes, and reduced port dues by 50 per cent on exports of fruits and by 25 per cent on the other products mentioned. January 28. It was announced that the export of 200,000 tons of wheat authorized in December 1964 might be made either in the form of grain or in that of flour and other wheat products and that the exchange proceeds might be sold in the free market. February 11. Motor vehicles transferred f rom the free zone of Nueva Palmira to the rest of the country were made subject to the surcharges and prior deposits in force at the date of their transfer. February 26. Imports shipped before registration were made subject to penalty surcharges ranging from 10 per cent on items free of surcharge or with 20 per cent surcharge to 50 per cent on items with 300 per cent surcharge. March 5. Uruguay fo rma l ly adhered to the Common List of LAFTA tariff concessions adopted in December 1964. March 17. The bilateral payments agreement with Argentina expired. March 18. The official buying and selling rates were changed from Ur$18.20 to Ur$23.00 and from Ur$18.70 to Ur$24.00, respectively. The Bank of the Republic recommenced sales of official exchange for imports exempt from surcharge or subject to a 30 per cent surcharge. March 18. New retention rates were announced for proceeds from exports of wool, hides, and skins. The retentions on wool and hides were as follows: greasy wool Ur$55.80, scoured wool Ur$85.84, combed wool Ur$92.35, dry sheepskins Ur$37.20, and dry cattle hides Ur$28.59, all per 10 kilograms. Retentions on salted and pickled hides were as follows: steer and cow Ur$161.17, he ifer and calf Ur$204.50, bull and ox Ur$112.74, all per 100 kilograms. Retentions on hide rejects were as follows: steer and cow Ur$254.08, he ifer and calf Ur$188.92, bull and ox Ur$99.70, all per 100 kilograms. The retention for unborn calf and lamb skins was Ur$38.04 per unit weighing less than 10 kilograms. The retention on linseed grain was Ur$423.20 per 1,000 kilograms. March 18. Import subsidies were established of Ur$0.186 per kilo- gram on coal and of Ur$102 per cubic meter on crude petroleum. 605 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY March 18. New aforo values were established for exports of wool, wheat, and bran. The aforos for wool exports were as follows: greasy wool US$1.10; scoured wool US$1.69; scoured belly and lambs' wool US$1.38; combed wool US$1.86; noil and combing by-products US$0.74, per kilogram. The other aforos per 1,000 kilograms were US$30.00 for wheat and US$15.00 for bran. March 18. New minimum prices for meat exports were established. March 18. Imports of specified types of feedstuffs were exempt from customs duty and other levies until September 18, 1965. March 18. A few commodities were added to the lists of freely per- mitted imports. March 18. Exports of all feedstuffs were prohibited. March 18. The 30 per cent surcharge on airplanes and aviation equipment was canceled. March 19. The Bank of the Republic resumed accepting import declarations. March 21. Export proceeds in excess of the aforos had to be sur- rendered within ten days "of receipt. March 21+. Exchange at the official rate was no longer granted for goods bearing a 30 per cent surcharge in the following categories of imports: live an ima ls; cinematographic, musical, radio, and photo- graphic equipment; electrical goods; ironmongery; jewelry and watches; toys and household goods; books and stationery; and drapery and haberdashery. March 26. The minimum prices established for meat exports were amended. April 14. The import prohibition on crude sugar other than for refining was extended to October 22,1965. April 20. The Bank of the Republic announced its readiness to purchase at the free market rate any proceeds from wool exports in excess of the aforos. April 30. The surcharge on imports arriving in Uruguayan ships of commodities ordinarily subject to the 30 per cent surcharge was estab- lished at 20 per cent. May 14. All outstanding import, export, and exchange transactions undertaken through private banks and involving payments or receipts due between April 21,1965 and May 14, 1965 had to be effected through the Bank of the Republic. May 20. Official entities required the prior authorization of the Ministry of Finance before buying exchange in the market. 606 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY June 1. The Bank of the Republic ceased accepting new import registrations for a period of 15 days. June 15. Commodities not subject to surcharges, or with surcharges not in excess of 30 per cent, were grouped in three d i f fe rent lists. Import registrations covering merchandise included in List No. 1 were authorized from June 16; import registrations covering merchan- dise in List No. 2 were to be authorized beginning on August 17, 1965; import registrations covering merchandise included in List No. 3 were to be authorized beginning on September 16, 1965. June 17. Electronic tubes imported f rom LAFTA countries under the terms of a "complementarity agreement" were exempt from customs duties, surcharges, and other levies. June 24. The Ministry of Livestock and Agriculture was authorized to establish the aforos for exports of raw cattle hides and sheepskins. June 24. Certain goods were exempted f rom the special import regime (see June 15, abov e ); these included imports for the manu- fac ture of exports, imports financed by international credits, and imports under U.S. Public Law 480. August 17. The import of goods included in List No. 2 (see June 15, above) was suspended until September 16. September 16. The import of goods included in Lists Nos. 2 and 3 (see June 15, above) was postponed un t il October 16, but provision was made for the immediate import of goods certified by the Ministry of Industries as essential. September 22. A mu l t i la teral clearing agreement was signed by the central banks of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay. October 7. Imports of automobiles and trucks were prohibited for a period of 180 days. October 18. The Bank of the Republic depreciated its buying and selling rates f rom Ur$23.00 and Ur$24.00 per US$1, respectively, to Ur$58.90 and Ur$59.90, and announced that it would follow a flexible exchange rate policy. October 18. A. new schedule of export retentions was established for all ma jor export products as follows. For greasy and scoured wool and wool tops, Ur$234.54, Ur$360.82, and Ur$388.16, respectively, per 10 kilograms. For dry sheepskins and dry cattle hides, Ur$141.00 and Ur$66.00, respectively, per 10 kilograms. For salted and pickled hides per 100 kilograms: calf and he ifer hides Ur$886.00 (Ur$732.00 for re jec t s ); steer and cow hides Ur$693.00 (Ur$635.00 for r e j e c t s ); bull and ox hides Ur$385.00 (Ur$327.00 for r e j e c t s ); unborn calf hides 607 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY up to 10 kilograms Ur$193.00. For oilseeds per 1,000 kilograms the retentions on the main export categories were linseed grain Ur$2,350.00; linseed oil Ur$l,980.00; linseed expeller Ur$l,320.00; sunflower seed meal Ur$2,100.00. For meat, the retention was set at 33 per cent of the f .o.b. value. October 18. A new schedule of aforos for wool and meat exports was established. The total proceeds of wool exports had to be sur- rendered at the off ic ial rate. October 18. Imports subject to surcharges of 60 per cent or more were prohibited for a period of 180 days, with certain exceptions. Certain imports f ree of surcharge or subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent were prohibited for a period of 30 days f rom October 15, 1965. Registrations were reopened for most imports f ree of surcharge or subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent. October 18. Imports of specified capital goods were not permitted unless financed abroad for a period of at least three years. With the exception of such capital goods and certain other specified goods, imports were made subject to prepayment to the Bank of the Republic at the time of registration of 100 per cent of their c . i .f. value in Uruguayan pesos. November 8. The prohibition on specified imports f ree of surcharge or subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent was extended until December 18, 1965. December 2. All taxes on payments for imports were abolished; the charge of 1 per cent on import declarations and that of 3% per mill on import authorizations were also eliminated. Instead, additional import duties rang ing f rom 1% per cent to 15 per cent were levied on the c.i.f. value of imports; the duties were collected when the goods were cleared through customs. December 17. The remaining import suspensions for commodities free of surcharge or subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent were extended until January 18,1966. 608 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par value established with the Fund is Bolivares 3.35 = US$1. Exchange transactions take place at the following rates. The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the petroleum and iron ore exporting companies at the rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Most other exchange proceeds are purchased by commercial banks at rates close to Bs 4.48 per US$1. Proceeds f rom exports of cacao and coffee may be purchased also by the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1; in certain circumstances they are eligible for special subsidies (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). The Central Bank sells exchange to the Government and its agencies and to the commercial banks at Bs 4.485 per US$1. Commercial banks sell exchange to the public at Bs 4.50 per US$1 for all transactions. The Central Bank, through its Import Subsidy Office, grants a subsidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1 on exchange purchased to make payments for imports of wheat and powdered milk. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, when required, are generally issued by the Ministries of Development or Agriculture, depending on the commodity. Under the terms of an agreement between the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank, the latter has the responsibility of ensuring that a subsidy is applied to the appropriate transactions; the Import Subsidy Office of the Central Bank administers the payment of this subsidy, which is granted only on import payments for wheat and powdered milk (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports of these products require both an import license from the Ministry of Development and a permit from the Import Subsidy O f f ice; exports containing a substantial component of wheat or powdered milk also require a permit f rom the Import Subsidy Office. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods either are prohibited or may be imported only by the Government. Many textiles and a number of other items require import licenses; quantitative restrictions are maintained on these items for protective purposes. Import licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the amount imported. 609 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Imports eligible for the subsidy of Bs 1.15 (wheat and powdered milk) require permits from the Import Subsidy Office and import licenses from the Ministry of Development. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made f ree ly; exchange for this purpose is purchased f rom commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Licenses for the export of some products essential to the domestic economy must be obtained f rom the Ministries of Development and Agriculture. Export permits f rom the Import Subsidy Office are also required if commodities eligible for the Bs 1.15 subsidy are a sub- stantial component of the export. The export of gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting companies must surrender to the Central Bank export pro- ceeds, to the extent of their local currency requirements (including taxes), at a rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Exporters of coffee and cacao may sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.485 per US$1; they may receive an additional payment for this exchange, calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports f rom fa l l ing below specified m in imum amounts regardless of external dollar prices. On the basis of the prices existing during 1965, such additional payments were being made only for export proceeds derived f rom the lower grades of cacao. The export of strategic materials to certain countries is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts f rom invisibles are freely disposable. Capital All capital transfers are permitted freely. There is no registration procedure for incoming capital. Changes during 1965 March 24- Imports of most fertilizers and certain chemicals required a license. May 21. Import licenses were required for radios, television receivers, record players, fluorescent tubes, semimanufactured glass, amplifiers, loudspeakers, electrical accessories for motor vehicles, fishing nets, and galvanized sheet and plates. 610 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA July 8. The Insurance Bill was signed into law. It required that at least 51 per cent of the stock of all insurance companies operating in Venezuela be held by Venezuelan nationals. Foreign-owned local subsidiaries were given eight years to comply and agencies or branches of foreign companies one year. July 27. Import licensing restrictions were imposed for a 60-day period on textiles listed under 178 tariff items. August 4. Imports of bicycles and bicycle parts required a license. September 29. The import licensing restrictions temporarily imposed on textiles on July 27 were replaced by permanent measures. The goods affected were, with two exceptions, the same as those to which the temporary measures had applied. On some items of untreated cloth, high ta r i f fs were imposed but no import license was requ ired; the remaining 45 items required an import license. Of these 45 items, 20 would be restricted to 60 per cent of 1964 imports and 25 to 100 per cent of 1964 imports. December 20. Imports of electric fuses and certain kinds of wax paper and waterproof paper required a license. 611 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM 1 Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The off ic ial parity is VN$35.00 per US$1 The off ic ial buying rate is VN$34.65, and the selling rate is VN$35.35, per US$1; these rates are not applicable to any exchange transactions. The official buy- ing and selling rates, plus a premium on purchases of exchange or the payment of a Security and Economic Development Tax on sales of exchange, equivalent in each case to five sevenths of the amount trans- ferred calculated at the off ic ial parity rate, give rise to effective rates of VN$59.65 buying, and VN$60.35 selling, per US$1, for most trade and for certain transactions in invisibles. Other effective rates result f rom a system of subsidies, ranging f rom VN$5.00 to VN$40.00 per US$1, extended to the exchange proceeds of secondary exports, and f rom the existence of an officially controlled free market, through which settlements may be made for certain invisibles. As at December 31, 1965, the rates in the controlled free market were 1 per cent on either side of VN$73.50 per US$1. Most invisibles are settled through a Special Fund at the National Bank. The buying and selling rates of the Special Fund are, respectively, the controlled free market rate plus a special subsidy of VN$44.50 per US$1, and the controlled free market rate plus a special charge of VN$44.50 per US$1; the resulting effective rates as at December 31, 1965 were VN$117.265 buying, and VN$118.735 selling, per US$1. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Under an agreement with Cambodia, payments to and f rom that country are made at a rate of VN$1 — 1 riel. Rates for other currencies are computed on the basis of their off ic ial parities in relation to the effective U.S. dollar rate applied to the transaction concerned. Payments and receipts through the off ic ial market, and outgoing payments for certain invisibles authorized through the controlled free market, must be effected through the authorized exchange banks. Payments and receipts through the Special Fund must be effected through the Directorate-General of Exchange at the National Bank and an authorized bank. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Directorate-General of Exchange of the National Bank of Viet-Nam. Most remittances must xln view of a change that took place on January 1, 1966 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position as at that date. 612 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to approve some payments for private invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Imports under U.S. "project aid" programs require no license but are subject to special contracts or procurement procedures. Licenses for other imports financed with U.S. aid are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade and are countersigned by the National Bank (Directorate of External Rela- tions and Foreign A i d ). Licenses for imports f inanced with Viet-Nam's own exchange are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade and are countersigned by the Directorate-General of Exchange. However, for imports of a noncommercial character valued at less than VN$1,000, the Directorate-General of Exchange is authorized to grant licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade, but they require also the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Cambodia and the United Arab Republic are made through accounts maintained by the central bank of each country in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, respectively, and balances thereon are settled periodically in U.S. dollars.2 All other settlements are made in convertible currencies, mainly in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or French francs. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. A category of nonresident accounts, called Capital Accounts, covers piastres owned by nonresident foreigners that may not be transferred abroad. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment in certain areas of economic activity designated by the Ministry of National Economy. Their use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Investments financed f rom Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see section on Capital, be low), and proceeds from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of National Economy has declared them eligible for the privileges of the law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negotiable between non- resident foreigners. 2 The bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic is due to expire on May 22,1966. 613 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Imports and Import Payments Most imports are made in accordance with an annual commercial import program, the bulk of which is divided into three parts: (1) imports financed with funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development (A ID ); (2) imports financed from Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country-financed imports," i.e., imports financed with Japanese reparations, French, German, and Japanese loans, or French export credit. In principle, products imported under the AID program are not included among imports that are financed otherwise, and vice versa. However, when AID financing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essential products, such imports may be financed from Viet-Nam's official exchange reserves. Many imports are prohibited. Licenses for imports of nine groups of commodities 3 are reserved for exporters of goods other than rice and rice products, rubber, cinnamon, buffaloes on the hoof, salt, cigarettes, rice bran oil, and white sand (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). The issuance of licenses for most imports from France is suspended. Imports from Cambodia are made on a barter basis (echanges compenses). Some other imports are permitted without foreign exchange (sans devises); these include commodities donated under the Colombo Plan, small donations from countries not participating in that Plan, imports by end-users with branches abroad, gifts and samples, aviation gasoline, lubricants, and spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the Directorate-General of Exchange is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been obtained illegally. Imports are classified in 18 broad categories. An importer may make only application to import goods in a specified number of categories. Individual licenses, which are not transferable, are required for all imports. Importers who use less than 90 per cent of a license issued for AID-financed imports or less than 97 per cent of a license issued for imports financed from Viet-Nam's own reserves are subject to a penalty. The penalty in the former case may go up to 20 per cent of the value of the commodities licensed. In the latter case, the penalty is determined by the Directorate-General of Exchange on a case-to-case basis. Exchange is granted for all authorized imports at the official rate plus a Security and Economic Development Tax equal to five sevenths 8 These are maltose and candy, dairy products, fresh and dried fruits, beverages, ginseng and herbs of the traditional pharmacopoeia, woolen blankets and certain piece goods for clothing, cigarette paper and certain other kinds of paper, toys, and cosmetics, 614 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM of the amount transferred calculated at the official parity rate. For capital goods ordered prior to January 1962, or subsequently with official approval, payment of the tax can be deferred for up to five years. A subsidy of 20 per cent is granted on the c. & f. value (calcu- lated at the rate of VN$60 per U.S. do l lar) of industrial equipment for new approved investments and of accessories and spare parts for existing industrial firms, provided that the import is financed from foreign aid received in the form of grants. An "austerity" tax, ranging f rom 85 per cent to 310 per cent, is charged on the c.i.f. value of nonessential or competitive imports calculated at the o f f ic ia l, rate of exchange. Certain imports also are subject to an "equalization" tax. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require approval by the Directorate- General of Exchange; the authorization of some private invisibles settled through the Special Fund is delegated to the authorized banks. For certain government expenses exchange is allocated by the Directorate-General of Exchange at the off ic ial rate plus the Security and Economic Development Tax. With the approval of the Directorate- General of Exchange, payments for certain private invisibles may be made through the controlled free market. Exchange for most private invisibles is sold by the Special Fund at an effective rate of VN$118.735 per US$1. The principal payments that may be made through the controlled free market are government-sponsored students' transfers, family remittances by foreign technicians, and banking commissions. The principal payments settled through the Special Fund are travel expenses, fre igh t, insurance, fam i ly remittances by foreign nationals not recognized as technicians, profits, rents, and private donations. Foreign firms are generally permitted to transfer up to 90 per cent of their net annual profits af ter tax. Profit transfers by foreign enter- prises established or expanded af ter 1963 under the terms of the 1963 Investment Law are governed by the provisions of that law (see section on Capital, below). Resident nationals may once a year acquire from the Special Fund foreign exchange for tourist travel equivalent to US$20 a day, up to the fo l low ing limits: the equivalent of US$1,200 for countries outside the Far East, of US$300 for Hong Kong, Bangkok, and Singa- pore, and of US$600 for other Far Eastern countries; these amounts 615 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM may be supplemented by the equivalent of US$40 in foreign bank- notes, also to be settled at the Special Fund rate. Travelers are per- mitted to take with them up to VN$500 in Vietnamese banknotes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign travelers may be re-exported when a declaration is made to the customs and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an authorized bank at the appropriate rate. Exports and Export Proceeds All permitted exports require a license; they must be registered with an authorized bank, which is responsible for the repatriation of th,e foreign exchange. All exports to communist countries and exports to any destination of manufactured or semimanufactured products originally imported into Viet-Nam, gold, rice, rice products, and certain other items are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate; they receive a fixed premium equal to five sevenths of the amount sold calculated at the official parity rate. Many secondary exports benefit from one of 12 subsidies rang ing from VN$5.00 to VN$40.00 per US$1, in addition to the prem ium. Exporters of all goods other than rice and rice products, rubber, cinnamon, buffa loes on the hoof, salt, cigarettes, rice bran oil, and white sand are entitled to receive import licenses corresponding to 25 per cent of their surrendered export proceeds for certain imports which are not otherwise licensed (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ); these benefits are granted also when the export commodity receives an exchange subsidy. Exports of rubber are subject to an export tax of 40 per cent, and those of duck feathers to a tax of 15 per cent; export taxes are levied on the f.o.b. value calculated at the official rate of exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from trade-connected invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate; they receive a premium equal to five sevenths of the amount sold calculated at the official parity rate. Exchange derived from certain other invisibles and net receipts resulting from certain payments and receipts in foreign exchange which may be entered on "port-of-call" accounts maintained by shipping and airline companies must be sold at the controlled free market rate; thus, philanthropic organizations and foreign embassies must sell their foreign exchange at this rate to cover their expenses in Viet-Nam. Foreign troops and 616 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM personnel serving in Viet-Nam and tourists may sell exchange at the Special Fund rate; foreign troops, in order to benefit from this rate, must present scrip ("military payment certificates") for conversion into piastres. Travelers entering Viet-Nam may bring in any amount of foreign exchange, but it must be declared to the customs upon entry. A traveler may bring in Vietnamese banknotes up to a total of VN$500. Capital Under general regulations, capital may be imported without formali- ties, but foreign investors must register their capital with the Viet- namese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to repatriate their capital and to transfer profits. Under the Investment Law of 1963, special benefits may be accorded to new foreign investments in the sectors of the economy that are given high priority. Applications must be approved by the interdepartmental Investment Committee. The minimum investment in agriculture was established at VN$0.5 million, and in industry at VN$1 million. Imports of equipment and spare parts needed by foreign undertakings covered by the law are exempt from customs duties. Foreign tech- nicians employed by these enterprises are exempt from income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments are free of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments are not subject to any nationalization measures for the first 15 years from the date of the written authorization granted to the investor; they are accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic investments. The law provides for the transfer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital and for the repatria- tion of the original investment af ter 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent ( a f t er 20 years for investment of foreign-owned capital previously held in V ie t-Nam). An implementing regulation (Exchange Control Notice No. 73) provides that all imports and exports of capital under the law are to be settled at the controlled free market rate on the day of transfer, with the exception that capital imports in kind must be calculated at the rate of VN$60 per U.S. dollar. Investments not covered by the Investment Law are subject to the regulations and case-to-case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, which authorizes the transfer of up to 90 per cent of net annual profits a f ter taxes but discourages disinvestment. Enter- prises established in 1962 may, subject to the approval of the Invest- ment Committee, be granted the privileges of the Investment Law. 617 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Table of Exchange Rates (as at January 1, 1966) (piastres per UJ$. dollar) Buying 34.65 (Official Rate) No transactions. % of vmss) 59.65 (Official Rate plus Premium of Exports not receiving exchange subsidy. Government receipts. Some private invisibles. Some capital receipts. 64.65-99.65 (Official Rate plus Pre- mium of % of VN$35 and Various Exchange Subsidies) Certain secondary exports. 72.765 (Controlled Free Market Rate) Some invisibles. Other capital receipts. 117.265 (Controlled Free Market Rate plus Special Subsidy of VN&44-60) Expenses of nonresident physical per- sons during their stay in Viet-Nam. Selling 35.35 (Official Rate) No transactions. 60.35 (Official Rate plus Security and Economic Development Tax of % of VNS85) All imports. All government payments. Some capital repatriation. 74.235 (Controlled Free Market Rate) Some private invisibles. Other capital repatriation. 118.735 (Controlled Free Market Rate plus Special Charge of VNS4430) Most private invisibles. Changes during 1965 During 1965, there were several modifications of the supplementary export subsidies, the list of minor exports benefiting f rom such sub- sidies, and the imports and exports covered by the special export incentive scheme. September 1. A Special Fund was established at the National Bank to carry out specified exchange transactions at an effective rate of VN$118 per US$1. On the buying side, this rate was applied to exchange sold by nonresident physical persons during their stay in Viet-Nam, and on the selling side to most private invisibles. Foreign troops serving in Viet-Nam were paid in scrip ("military payment certificates") which could only be exchanged for piastres through the Special Fund. Foreign military and civilian personnel no longer were permitted to bring foreign banknotes into Viet-Nam. September 22. Import duties and "austerity" taxes on most imports were increased. October 16. The application of the increases in import duties and "austerity" taxes announced on September 22 was confined to certain nonessential and semiessential goods. 618 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM October 19. Exports of coconut oil were suspended. October 20. The exchange allocations for tourist travel, business travel, and certain other private invisibles were increased; the per- centages were raised of profits and of foreign workers' salaries that could be remitted. October 20. It was announced that exchange f rom Viet-Nam's own resources would be granted liberally for import payments. NOTE.—The following change took place early in 1966: January 1. With the exception of imports from France and imports effected within the framework of a loan agreement, all imports financed by Viet-Nam's own resources had to be settled in U.S. dollars. 619 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Yugoslav Dinars 1,250 •= US$1. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control The Federal Executive Council prescribes the general provisions governing foreign trade and exchange transactions. The Federal Secre- tariat for Foreign Trade, by virtue of these general provisions, estab- lishes rules and regulations and makes decisions governing commercial transactions, and issues import and export licenses when required. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific provisions governing exchange transactions. The National Bank is the operative organ of exchange control and prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign countries. All foreign exchange transactions must be carried out through the National Bank and the authorized banks, i.e., the Yugoslav Bank for Foreign Trade, the Yugoslav Agricultural Bank, the Republics' Eco- nomic Banks, or, for certain imports of capital goods, the Yugoslav Investment Bank. Most of the foreign exchange resources are controlled by the National Bank, which provides the foreign exchange needed by the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from countries with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments agreements are made in the currencies and according to the procedures set forth in those agreements. If no agreement exists, settlement is usually made in a convertible currency. Yugoslavia has payments agreements requiring settlements through bilateral clearing accounts as follows: (1) in U.S. dollars with Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Cambodia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Israel, Mali, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Tunisia, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., and the United Arab Republic; (2) in sterling with Mainland Ch ina; and (3) in their respec- tive currencies with Ghana, India, Iraq, and Switzerland. A certain degree of multilateralization in payments is provided under the bilateral payments agreements with Iraq, Mali, and Switzerland. Certain settlements with Ceylon, Colombia, Jordan, and Pakistan take place through special accounts. 620 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident dinar accounts. One type may be credited with the dinar countervalue of exchange transferred from abroad, and debited for any current payment in Yugoslavia; balances on this type of account may be transferred abroad. The other type may be credited with dinar amounts realized in Yugoslavia in accordance with the regulations, and may be debited only for tourist and living expenses in Yugoslavia; balances on this type of account may not be transferred abroad except with special approval. Foreigners resident outside Yugoslavia may open accounts in con- vertible currencies in Yugoslavia. Balances on such accounts may be used for both commercial and noncommercial transactions. Foreign missions and foreigners resident in Yugoslavia may open with the National Bank accounts expressed in foreign currencies or dinars. Payments to the credit of such- foreign currency accounts may be made only by transfers of the foreign currency in which the account is denominated. These accounts may be debited for all noncommercial payments. Transfers from the foreign currency accounts are allowed in the currency of the account; transfers f rom accounts in convertible currencies may be made to all countries. Imports and Import Payments Only economic enterprises registered as participating in foreign trade may import. Registration is granted to all enterprises fu l f i l l ing certain prescribed conditions; in addition to enterprises specializing in foreign trade, most large industrial enterprises are registered. Unregistered enterprises are required to give their orders to the foreign trade enterprises, which import on their behalf and on their account. The import of certain basic foodstuffs, such as wheat, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by a number of foreign trade enterprises acting as agents of the State Food Administration. Eighty-eight commodities or groups of commodities included in a free list may be imported without license from any country and are free of quantitative restriction. This list comprises 77 raw materials and semiprocessed goods and 11 consumer goods items. A "liberal licensing" procedure applies to imports from all sources of 12 com- modities or groups of commodities for which import licenses are issued freely. Imports under these two categories constituted about 24 per cent of all imports in 1965. For imports of 28 commodities or groups of commodities (23 of them being raw materials and semiprocessed goods and the other 5 being broad groups of consumer goods), commodity quotas are estab- 621 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA lished in dinars. The fu ll quota for each commodity or group of com- modities is divided into subquotas: one for all convertible currencies and the others for each bilateral agreement currency. Only a portion of the annual quotas is released initially, and the total of the subsequent releases may be more or less than the remainder after the initial release. Imports under quotas constituted about 34 per cent of all imports in 1965. Capital goods also are imported under quotas established for all convertible currencies taken together and for each bilateral agreement currency. Foreign exchange for this purpose is made available through the Yugoslav Investment Bank, the Yugoslav Agricultural Bank, and the Republics' Economic Banks. In addition, economic enterprises are authorized to import capital goods and spare parts from any country within the limits established for each individual enterprise, on the basis of disposable depreciation funds. Imports of equipment valued at more than US$120,000 may be made only on submission of tenders or on the basis of public bidding. Imports of capital goods under these procedures constituted about 18 per cent of all imports in 1965. Other goods, except consumer goods, may be imported freely from any country by utilizing foreign exchange allocated to each enterprise on the basis of the foreign exchange allocated to it in the past for imports of the same goods; but should an economic enterprise wish to import under this procedure, whether under "liberal licensing," under individual commodity quotas, or under restrictive licensing (see below), it must obtain the necessary import permit or authorization. In practice, the use of these funds for imports of goods under quotas is allowed only in exceptional cases. Liberal treatment is accorded to imports of goods destined for fur ther processing and subsequent export. In practice, this procedure is used mainly for imports of raw materials and semi- manufactured products. Imports under this procedure constituted about 24 per cent of all imports in 1965. Specified raw materials, semimanufactured goods, consumer goods, and specified capital goods may be imported only on the basis of an individual license, which is granted on a restrictive basis on the merits of each case. Imports under this arrangement amounted to less than 1 per cent of all imports in 1965. Foreign exchange appropriate to the exporting country is provided by the National Bank or one of the authorized banks to pay for permitted imports. For the payment of imports subject to restrictive licensing, the economic enterprises may use either the foreign exchange allocated to them on the basis of past use or, for capital goods, the foreign exchange allocation based on the percentage of disposable depreciation funds, or foreign exchange made available to them on an 622 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA ad hoc basis for imports destined for further processing and subsequent exportation. In addition to the above, economic enterprises may obtain foreign exchange for payment of imports under quotas, or of those covered by allocations received on the basis of past use, from the authorized banks' own availabilities, provided that the imports con- cerned are used in such a way as to increase exports. Compensation arrangements with foreign countries are permitted only as an exception and are subject to approval by an authorized bank; in certain cases, this approval requires the prior agreement of the National Bank. Imports through compensation transactions constituted about 0.5 per cent of all imports in 1965. When selling foreign exchange to economic organizations for restricted imports, authorized banks may conclude contracts with them for the sale of foreign exchange over and above the amount fore- seen in the import plan for the commodity concerned; such linking contracts must include an undertaking by the economic organization to effect a specified amount of exports. Imports under linking contracts constituted about 30 per cent of total imports in 1965. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions are treated in a manner similar to that accorded to payments for merchan- dise. Exchange for all payments for invisibles may be purchased from the National Bank by government organs and institutions, social organizations, and similar bodies, within quotas determined in advance for each year. The National Bank may sell foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$20 for remittances for fam i ly maintenance, court and other fees abroad, certain other purposes, and any personal expenses. There are basic annual exchange allowances of US$20 for tourist travel abroad, and US$10 for private travel to visit relatives abroad, for each person. All other exchange allocations for invisibles must be individually authorized. Not more than Din 5,000 in Yugoslav bank- notes, in denominations of Din 100, may be taken out by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Twenty-five industrial commodities or groups of such commodities and 20 agricultural and forest products are subject to individual licensing. Two industrial commodities or groups of such commodities are subject to export quota. The principal reasons for export control are to ensure adequate domestic supplies and to meet obligations aris- ing from agreements relating to imports from the United States under U.S. Public Law 480. 623 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA All proceeds from exports must be surrendered immediately after receipt, and in any event not later than 90 days from the date of exportation. Exporters may purchase from the authorized banks foreign exchange proportionate to their export receipts to make payments connected with their exports, to purchase goods abroad, and to make other payments intended to advance their own economic activities. The proportions of export receipts that may be purchased by exporters vary according to the type of export concerned and range from 3 per cent for agricultural goods to 7 per cent for manufac tured goods of lesser importance, 10 per cent for machinery, and 12 per cent for pharmaceutical products, tractors, and motor vehicles. Tourist offices abroad may repurchase 20 per cent of their earnings, and economic organizations exporting books, periodicals, sheet music, and domestic •films, 25 per cent. The purchased exchange is not transferable to other enterprises. In practice, a large part is used to pay for expenses incidental to exports. Proceeds front Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered to the authorized banks; those accruing f rom services must be surrendered not later than 90 days from the date of maturity of the payment. Organizers of international fa i rs in Yugoslavia are credited with 20 per cent of the exchange they receive from foreign exhibitors. This exchange may be used for the purchase of equipment for stands, to pay commissions for representation abroad, and for other expenses connected with the fa irs. Enterprises involved in projects abroad may retain 100 per cent of their exchange proceeds to carry out such projects. Similarly, enterprises that participate in foreign companies may retain their profits earned abroad and use them for reinvestment abroad. Enterprises involved in foreign advertising in Yugoslavia may retain 50 per cent of their exchange receipts for use in connection with their activities, including the purchase abroad of printing machines and other materials. In all these cases the exchange is not transferable, but it can always be sold to the National Bank. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual procedures for import authorisation apply. Residents may be authorized to hold foreign exchange accounts, in which they may deposit savings f rom salaries, per diem reimburse- ments, fellowships, and individual earnings obtained while staying abroad. These accounts are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time; they may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and 624 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA of close members of his fam i ly. Assistance, grants, or similar receipts from abroad may in certain cases be used for payments abroad, pro- vided that an application to this effect is submitted to the Federal Secretariat for Finance within one year af ter receipts are obtained. Amounts authorized by the Secretariat may in certain cases be utilized only for direct payments abroad; they may not be credited to a foreign exchange account. Sales of certain manufac tured goods by authorized trade organiza- tions to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia, and to Yugoslav citizens paying in convertible exchange exempt from the surrender requirement, are made at a discount of 10 per cent, representing the exemption f rom turnover taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in author- ized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than Din 10,000 in Yugoslav banknotes, in denominations of Din 100, may be brought in by travelers. Capital All transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require individual licenses. Authorization is seldom granted for foreign participation in domestic enterprises in Yugoslavia. However, foreign loans to Yugoslav enter- prises are allowed on a liberal basis. Nonresidents (individuals or legal entities) are permitted to purchase and hold real estate property (buildings and land) in Yugoslavia for living, rest, or recuperation purposes, and to rent or lease this property through the intermediary of a Yugoslav tourist office or other Yugoslav authorized organizations. The nonresident purchaser of land must, however, erect a building on his lot within two years f rom the date of purchase. Unless specifically permitted to retain foreign exchange, residents are obliged to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange held abroad. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved. How- ever, domestic enterprises participating abroad in foreign enterprises may be allowed by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance to export the necessary capital. A Decision of the Yugoslav Federal Executive Council of October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distribution of the estate. 625 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Changes during 1965 July 1. As a temporary measure a premium of 33% per cent was introduced on the settlement rate of Din 750 per US$1 for receipts from tourism and inward remittances. July 26. A new par value for the Yugoslav dinar of Din 1,250 per US$1 was established with the International Monetary Fund; the use .of the settlement rate of Din 750 per US$1 was discontinued. The temporary exchange premium of 33% per cent on receipts from tourism and inward remittances (see July 1) was abolished, and all foreign payments and receipts were to take place at rates based on the new par value. This action was accompanied by the elimination of all export subsidies. A new customs tar iff was introduced bringing about important reductions in duties and at the same time making certain duties more effectively and selectively protective when this was considered desirable; the average rate of duty on primary products was reduced from 12 per cent to 5 per cent, that on semifinished goods from 17 per cent to 9 per cent, that on investment goods from 43 per cent to 20 per cent, and that on consumer goods from 44 per cent to 21 per cent. The average over-all rate of import duty declined from 21 per cent to 10.5 per cent. August 1. The discount on certain sales of manufactured goods was reduced from 20 per cent to 10 per cent. August 11. The amount of Yugoslav banknotes which travelers could take into Yugoslavia was raised f rom Din 5,000 to Din 10,000, while the amount of Yugoslav banknotes which travelers could take out was raised f rom Din 1.500 to Din 5,000. October 14- Yugoslavia applied for fu ll membership in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 626 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA 1 Exchange Rate System The currency of Zambia is the Zambian Pound. The Zambian pound is at par with the pound sterling, the official value of the Zambian pound being 2.48828 grams of fine gold, which corresponds to £Z 1 = US$2.80. The authorized banks base their rates for other cur- rencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1965, the rate for the U.S. dollar was US$2.815/8 buying, and US$2.78% sell- ing, per £Z 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the author- ity for approving normal current payments is in turn delegated to the commercial and merchant banks. The control of trade is the responsi- bility of the Minister of Commerce and Industry, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescrip- tion of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements with residents of other countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Zambian pounds, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Zambia to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Zambian pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zambian pounds f rom an External Account, or in any currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds f rom sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds, with authorized payments by resi- dents, and with transfers f rom other Scheduled Area Accounts. Bal- 1 Zambia became a member of the International Monetary Fund on Sep- tember 23,1965. 627 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA ances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Sterling Area currencies, may be used to pay residents of Zambia, or may be transferred to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Zambian pounds held with authorized banks by resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds f rom authorized banks. Blocked Accounts in Zambian pounds held with authorized banks by residents of any country other than Zambia are credited with non- transferable capital sums in Zambian currency which have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and credits to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Normally, approval is given for the investment of balances on blocked accounts in Zambian securities, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence. Imports and Import Payments Imports from any source of a few items listed in an open general license do not require individual licenses. These goods are mainly certain oil products, coke, exposed cinematographic film, personal and household effects, samples, diplomatic shipments, and goods imported by post or air freight. All other goods require an individual import license, regardless of the country of origin. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident account in accordance with the prescription of currency regulations is authorized automatically for all permitted imports, subject to the presentation of the relevant documents showing that the goods have either been received in or consigned to Zambia. Unless prior permission is other- wise obtained, all imports must be paid for within six months of the date of importation. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the 628 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA commercial banks without prior reference to the exchange control. Special, reduced allocations apply to payments for invisibles to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is £Z 10 a day for an adult, with a maximum of £Z 450 each calendar year, and £Z 5 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a maximum of £Z 225 each calendar year. The allowance is cumulative for a period of not more than three years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical treatment, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits are granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia under contract are permitted to remit up to two thirds of their earnings to Sterling Area coun t r ies ;2 applications for remittances to other countries are considered on their merits. To facilitate small payments, individuals are freely permitted to remit abroad up to £Z 10 a month for purposes normally approved by the exchange control authorities. Travelers may not take out more than £Z 10 in Zambian currency notes and the equivalent of £Z 10 in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Almost all goods require an export license. Certain commodities are subject to licensing mainly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials.3 For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely. Export proceeds in foreign currency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months of the date of shipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers, but not more than £Z 10 in Zambian currency notes may be imported. The import of old Southern Rhodesian or Bank of Rhodesia and Nyasaland currency notes is prohibited. 2 From February 10, 1966, persons recruited outside Zambia on a contract basis of not more than five years could remit only one half of their earnings, and those recruited in Zambia only one third. 'Implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and certain agri- cultural and animal products. 629 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repatriate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. In general, residents are not permitted to transfer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to o f fer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are registered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of the subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed £Z 8,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of £Z 5,000. (2) Married persons under 50 are allowed £Z 4,000 on departure, together with £Z 250 for each child, up to a maximum of £Z 5,000 for a fam i ly unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of £Z 3,000 together with £Z 250 for each child up to a maximum of £Z 4,000 for a family unit are permitted. (3) Unmarried persons under 50 are allowed £Z 2,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of £Z 1,500. Changes during 1965 February 12. Duty-free entrance was granted to imports of raw materials and manu fac tu r ing components from all sources. April 6. Imports of cement from all sources required a specific license. June 1. The common monetary area with Rhodesia and Malawi was dissolved. Rhodesia and Nyasaland pounds ceased to be legal tender. June 1. Separate exchange control legislation (the Exchange Control Act, 1964. and the Exchange Control Regulations, 1965) came into force in Zambia and the Bank of Zambia assumed responsibility for the administration of exchange control. Exchange control was imposed on transactions with Malawi and Rhodesia. June 1. The basic travel allowance was increased from £Z 300 to £Z 450 a person a year (£Z 225 for children under 12); the allowance could be accumulated for three years. Foreign nationals employed 630 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA under contract in Zambia were permitted to remit up to two thirds of their earnings to Sterling Area countries. June 1. The emigration allowance was raised from £Z 4,000 to £Z 5,000 a fam i ly with children, and f rom £Z 2,000 to £Z 4,000 for childless couples. June 18. An amendment to the Import Open General License, 1965 removed all restrictions on imports f rom Japan. July 27. Imports of knitted piece goods from all sources required a specific import license. September 21. Imports of combined radio-record players and portable radios from all sources required an individual license. November 12. The Bank of Zambia and the commercial banks ceased dealings in Rhodesian pounds. November 14- Restrictions were imposed on trade and payments with Rhodesia. The Commonwealth preferences applicable to Rhode- sian goods were revoked. Importers were urged to find alternative sources of supply. All dealings in Rhodesian currency, postal orders, and money orders were to be on a collection basis only. Residents could no longer deal in securities through the Salisbury stock exchange. Government departments, banks, and post offices were instructed not to accept Rhodesian currency in any f o rm; other recipients of Rhode- sian currency were required to surrender it to a commercial bank. November 19. Commercial banks resumed dealings in Rhodesian pounds. December 6. Almost all imports and exports required individual licenses. The Control of Goods (Import) Open General License Order, 1965 permitted the import without a specific license of certain oil products, coke, exposed cinematographic film, personal and household effects, samples, diplomatic shipments, and goods imported by post or air freight. Applications for import licenses for nonessential goods would be carefu l ly scrutinized. Export licenses would generally be granted freely. December 7. Commercial banks were permitted to obtain their Rhodesian pound requirements through their head offices or corre- spondents in London. Exporters to Rhodesia were advised to insist on payment in advance. Permitted payments to Rhodesia could be made in U.S. or Canadian dollars. December 7. The following restrictions were imposed on payments to Rhodesia. The tourist travel allowance was cut from £Z 10 to £Z 5 a day, with a maximum of £Z 100 a year; this amount was included in 631 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA the personal allocation of £Z 450 a year. Allocations for business travel were reduced f rom £Z 20 to £Z 10 a day. The authority of the banks to grant exchange for education abroad was limited to £Z 500 a person a year, but applications for higher amounts would be considered. No fur ther remittances were allowed for lotteries, football pools, betting, directors' fees, any other income payments, or any capital repayments; any income or capital payments due to residents of Rhodesia were made eligible for credit only to Blocked Accounts in Zambia. December 7. Residents wishing to invest abroad were restricted to the purchase of Zambian company securities or Zambian Government obligations. December 7. The export and import of Bank of Zambia notes was reduced from £Z 20 to £Z 10 a person. December 28. Credit could no longer be given for exports to Rhodesia; henceforth, such exports had to be paid for in advance and the proceeds must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars. December 81. The trade agreement with South Africa expired. 632 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 