 S E V E N TH A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1956 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I N T E R N A T I O N AL »v» MONETARY FUND Seventh Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions 1956 WashingtoMUl;^ ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 23, 1956 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Seventh Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Arti- cle XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like again to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the members in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /B/ IVAK ROOTH Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director V ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CONTENTS PART I I. Introduction II. Recent Developments in Exchange Restrictions The General Trend Increase of Transferability Reduction in Discrimination Bilateral Arrangements Multiple Exchange Rates and Similar Practices Simplification of Exchange Controls Other Developments III. Summary PART II Explanatory Note Countries Operating Under Article XIV Afghanistan Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Ceylon Chile China (Taiwan) Colombia Costa Rica Denmark Vll Page 1 2 2 2 4 5 5 6 7 8 13 17 20 25 31 41 47 57 62 67 73 79 88 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ecuador Egypt Ethiopia Finland France Germany, Federal Republic of Greece Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Italy Japan Jordan Korea, Republic of Lebanon Netherlands Nicaragua Norway Pakistan Paraguay Peru Philippine Republic Sweden Syria Thailand Turkey Union of South Africa United Kingdom Uruguay Yugoslavia viii Page 100 106 113 116 124 136 148 154 159 162 171 181 188 192 198 206 213 219 224 226 239 242 246 254 266 270 275 280 282 286 291 295 306 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution "Article VIII Countries" Canada Cuba Dominican Republic El Salvador Guatemala Haiti Honduras Mexico Panama United States Venezuela Venezuela has not notified the Fund that it is prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. This survey is included in this group as the Fund does not consider that Venezuela applies exchange measures under Article XIV. Nonmember Countries Argentina Irish Republic Liberia Libya New Zealand Portugal Saudi Arabia Spain Switzerland Page 321 322 325 327 329 330 332 334 336 337 339 345 350 353 354 356 359 362 364 368 IX ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction The Sixth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions observed in its Concluding Remarks (page 18) that the "outlook for further progress in removing balance of payments restrictions seems generally good." The present Report is a record of further progress by most countries in reducing their reliance on restrictions on payments. The Fund is continuing its endeavors to help in the elimination of restrictions and much of its effort has been spent on advice and assistance to members that are trying to advance toward the re-establishment of a multi- lateral system of payments. The present Report covers the period since the end of April 1955. Part I gives a brief general survey of developments in exchange re- strictions throughout the world. Part II describes the main features of each member's exchange system as at the end of 1955, and includes brief descriptions of the payments systems of member countries not availing themselves of the transitional arrangements. Important changes made in the early part of 1956 are also reported. In addition, surveys of cer- tain nonmember countries are included. Member countries maintaining restrictions on payments and trans- fers for current international transactions under Article XIV, Section 2, are required to consult with the Fund each year as to the further reten- tion of those restrictions. Since the last Report was written, no addi- tional countries have ceased to avail themselves of the postwar transi- tional period arrangements of Article XIV. Of the 58 members of the Fund, 47 have an obligation to consult under Article XIV, including 2 members which have joined the Fund since the last Report was issued. The Fund has now completed its fourth series of annual consultations. These consultations, which have taken place either in the member country or in Washington, have enabled the Fund to maintain direct and close contacts with members and have provided an opportunity for discussion of the economic and financial problems which give rise to restrictive and discriminatory practices and of the possibilities of further relaxation. 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution II. Recent Developments in Exchange Restrictions The General Trend The movement toward greater freedom of trade and payments con- tinued throughout 1955. This movement took place in a world pay- ments situation which, in general, continued to show improvement. The degree of relaxation of restrictions attained in 1955 cannot be assessed precisely, but it seems probable that progress was somewhat greater than during 1954. As reported in the Sixth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, 1954 was a year of consolidation of the rapid progress made in 1953 by the leading trading nations in liberating their trade and payments systems. In 1955, there were a number of important developments contributing to the general movement toward freer and less rigid payments systems. Very few countries intensified their restrictions and a large number found it possible to reduce them, the measures varying according to the system in force in the member country and its own particular situation. As indicated, the world payments position developed favorably and even those countries which faced balance of payments difficulties avoided, with few excep- tions, the reintroduction of restrictions. There was a continuation of the tendency noted in previous Reports to prefer fiscal and monetary meas- ures rather than exchange restrictions as instruments for dealing with balance of payments difficulties. With the wider transferability of currencies in international payments, there was a corresponding lessen- ing of emphasis on discrimination and strict bilateralism, and some simplification and decline in the use of multiple currency practices. There were certain countries, with complex restrictive systems involving considerable use of multiple currency practices and bilateral arrange- ments, in which little or no improvement was made during the period. Increase of Transferability Since April 1955 the range of transferability of certain currencies has been extended appreciably. This applies especially to member countries with exchange control systems in which there are detailed regulations prescribing the currencies to be used in settlements with foreign coun- tries or governing the use of accounts owned by nonresidents. The facili- ties for the wide international use of transferable sterling and partly convertible deutsche marks have continued. There have also been several instances in which members of the European Payments Union have extended the range of transferability of their currency by per- mitting a non-EPU country to convert holdings of their currency into some or all other EPU currencies. For example, a number of Western 2 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS European countries extended to Finland the possibility of exchanging Finnish balances in their respective currencies into other EPU cur- rencies. France also extended certain transfer facilities to Argentina, Mainland China, and Hungary. Residents of most Sterling Area countries have been allowed to accept payment for exports to countries in the Transferable Account Area in any of the "specified" currencies.1 Previously, payment could normally be accepted only in sterling from an appropriate account, in Canadian dollars or U.S. dollars, or in the currency appropriate to the importing country, if that currency was specified. Some countries, e.g., Belgium-Luxembourg, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Netherlands, have extended their lists of countries described as being in the dollar area and with which set- tlements are made on a dollar basis. With only minor exceptions, the definition of the dollar area is now the same in the regulations of most Western European and Sterling Area countries. In its transactions with some countries, Egypt has been able, by using transferable sterling facilities, to reduce the volume of dealings in Egyptian pounds at depreciated rates. This has been done by agreeing to settlements in sterling with certain countries with which payments were previously on a strictly bilateral basis. The reform of the Argentine payments system in October 1955 re- divided Argentina's exchange transactions between the two exchange markets—official and free. The official market is used for the settlement of major exports and essential imports; the free market can now be used by both residents and nonresidents for trade and payments (though not for certain outstanding nonresident accounts) that do not have to be settled through the official market. These new arrangements have enabled several Fund member countries to extend the transferability of their own currencies to those transactions with Argentina which, ureter the new regulations, may pass through the Argentine free market, &ad thus to reduce the strict bilateralism that had previously governed their trade and payments relations with Argentina. Considerable attention has been focused on the so-called "Hague Club" arrangement, by which Brazilian earnings from transactions with Belgium-Luxembourg, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Nether- lands, and the United Kingdom have been pooled and the currencies of these countries made interchangeable in Brazilian hands. Where im- ports are made through the auction system, successful bidders obtain 1 The "specified" currencies are listed in footnote 4 to the survey on the United Kingdom's exchange system in Part II of this Report. 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS certificates expressed in "dollars of the area of limited convertibility" and may use them to purchase any of the currencies of the countries participating in the scheme. The participating countries hope that cer- tain other countries will make similar arrangements with Brazil. It is the intention of these arrangements to eliminate strict bilateralism as a step toward a more complete multilateral system. The multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements (see Fifth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, page 15) which operated among 9 Western European countries were extended in 1955 to include dealings in Italian lire and transactions with authorized banks in Italy. Reduction in Discrimination The improvement in the world payments position, the considerable reduction in the differences in the relative availability to various coun- tries of dollars and important non-dollar currencies, and the increase in the scope for the transfer and conversion of currencies have made possible further reductions in discriminatory restrictive practices in 1955-56. Some 15 countries have either increased their general import liberalization from all countries or increased their dollar import free lists. In spite of the considerable progress that has been made, there re- mains a large body of discriminatory practices in which many countries throughout the world still engage. Discriminatory bilateral and regional arrangements persist, though, as mentioned above, greater flexibility has been introduced into many of them. Moreover, not all countries with discriminatory trade and payments arrangements have reduced discrimination to the extent made possible by recent develop- ments facilitating the transfer and convertibility of currencies and by changes in their payments position. It can also be said that, as discrimi- nation for balance of payments purposes has lessened, commercial policy and protective reasons for continuing some of these restrictions have been brought more clearly into focus. The Fund will continue to encourage those member countries still applying discriminatory restrictive practices to modify them in response to the improvement in international financial conditions. The CON- TRACTING PASTIES to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and the Organization for European Economic Cooperation have been pur- suing a similar policy. 4 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS Bilateral Arrangements In consultations with Fund members during the past year, emphasis has been placed on a careful review of bilateral arrangements, because these arrangments in general have been important evidence of lack of progress toward convertibility and the removal of restrictions. It is satisfying to report that during the year there has been an appreciable reduction in bilateralism in international payments relations. Several bilateral payments agreements were allowed to lapse; in other cases, more flexible provisions were introduced into bilateral agreements. Im- port lists in these agreements became, increasingly, merely expressions of the partner countries' intentions to facilitate trade in certain com- modities rather than undertakings to import or export fixed amounts. There was little change in the total number of bilateral agreements, but, in many cases, their terms were broadened and their importance as a restriction on international trade was diminished. Wherever practicable, the Fund has suggested to members that the scope of bilateralism should be still further reduced. The Fund is continuing its efforts in this field. Multiple Exchange Rates and Similar Practices In the past year, many countries maintaining multiple exchange rates and similar practices made some changes in these practices, which varied considerably in character and significance. The countries that did not change their multiple currency practices are, for the most part, those in which the practice is only a minor element in the exchange rate structure. The number of countries in which multiple currency practices were simplified appreciably exceeded those in which there was an in- crease in multiple rates. The payments systems of Chile and Paraguay were greatly simplified. Reliance on multiple currency practices de- creased appreciably in Egypt, Iran, Korea, Nicaragua, and Syria. In Thailand, except for some outstanding commitments, all transactions are now at uniform rates. In some countries, major simplification of the payments system was associated with exchange rate devaluation; the measures taken were designed to remove price distortions and to help to bring inflationary pressure under better control. In other countries, the simplification of the rate structure was the culmination of a series of steps taken grad- ually over the past few years. Frequently, there were related tariff changes-—either simple upward adjustments, or the incorporation of surcharges in the tariff structure, or even a general tariff reform. Gen- erally, countries progressing in this manner had previously or con- currently introduced policies directed toward internal financial stability. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS In referring to the increased facilities for nonresidents to convert inconvertible currencies into dollars, the Sixth Annual Report on Ex- change Restrictions stated (page 2) that "this conversion has usually not been possible at rates within 1 per cent of parity, but only at rates involving a somewhat greater discount from the official exchange rate." During recent months, the rates in world markets for transferable cur- rencies, such as transferable sterling, partly convertible deutsche marks, and free market Belgian francs, have been within 1 per cent of the agreed par value of these currencies. At the same time, rates for trans- actions in types of currency generally available only for certain capital transactions have also moved nearer to the official parities. Simplification of Exchange Controls Most of the exchange control systems described in Part II of this Report have been in force since the early days of World War II. During the course of time many of them became very complex. In the immedi- ate postwar years especially, there was a tendency to introduce ad hoc restrictive measures to cope with balance of payments problems and the problems created by currency inconvertibility. When it became possible to ease restrictions, the easing was often done administratively; i.e., exchange control systems were maintained, but certain payments were in fact permitted more freely. This was regarded as a method of testing whether the balance of payments and reserves could stand the strain of relaxing restrictions. If the test gave unsatisfactory results, it was possible to restrict again fairly quickly. During 1955, as noted above, the majority of countries found it possible further to relax their restrictions, but many of them preserved the machinery of restriction. In fact, some countries which have almost eliminated restrictions still maintain a complex exchange control mechanism. Other countries have proceeded, in varying degree, with the dismantling or simplification of their administrative systems. This has been done in various ways, such as permitting commercial banks acting as authorized agents of the control authority to approve more transactions, or raising ceilings for certain payments and waiving all control procedures for sums below those ceilings. Some countries have dispensed altogether with individual control of many minor invisible items and have given instead a global authorization for such trans- actions. Measures such as these have helped to reduce the interval between application for a payment authorization and actual remittance and generally made it easier for both residents and foreigners to under- take personal and business transactions. They indicate the readiness of certain countries to discard exchange controls and to rely more on 6 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS fiscal and monetary measures to maintain a healthy balance of pay- ments and reserve position. The abandonment of the machinery of exchange control makes it more difficult for countries to reintroduce restrictive practices requiring detailed exchange controls. Other Developments The trend in the freeing of international capital movements which was noted in the Sixth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions (pages 6-8) has continued. The freer movement and negotiability of securities and their proceeds have been carried further in Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. In the United Kingdom, blocked accounts and sterling securities have been made freely transferable among all nonresidents (except to residents of Scandinavia where the sales proceeds are eligible for credit to Trans- ferable Accounts), whereas previously, transfers from outside the dollar area to the dollar area required approval. In the Netherlands, it has been made easier for nonresidents to move capital both in and out and for residents to purchase foreign securities in other EPU countries. In Belgium-Luxembourg, all capital transactions, whether made by resi- dents or nonresidents, are now completely free of control; certain of these transactions can be made only through a freely fluctuating ex- change market, while others may be made through either the official or the free exchange market. Rates in the free market have been, for the most part, within 1 per cent of the par value agreed with the Fund. 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HI. Summary For the third year in succession, the Fund is able to record progress in the freeing of trade and payments from restrictions. The pace and character of the liberalization have changed from time to time, and there is great diversity among the measures taken by different coun- tries. This progress reflects in part the widening conviction that in the present and foreseeable circumstances the interests of countries are better served by coping with such external payments difficulties as per- sist by using monetary and fiscal weapons rather than restrictive practices. Developments in the field of restrictions during the period under review may be summarized as follows: 1. There is a general determination to press forward with the removal of restrictions as member countries find their payments situations improving. This can be seen from the chronology of changes in exchange regulations at the end of each country study in Part II of this Report. 2. Countries are increasingly anxious to avoid the reintroduction of restrictions. Restrictions have been intensified in only a few countries. To redress balance of payments difficulties, reliance is being placed, particularly in industrial countries, on monetary and fiscal measures rather than on restrictive practices. 3. Some countries have simplified and others have begun to dis- mantle their exchange control systems. However, as shown in Part II, the machinery of exchange control has been maintained by all of the many countries availing themselves of Article XIV of the Fund Agreement. 4. During the past year, the range of transferability of certain cur- rencies has been extended and the use of these and existing transfer facilities has increased. Greater use has also been made of opportunities to convert currencies through free markets. At present, the exchange rates in these markets are very near to official parities. 5. The need for discriminatory restrictive practices has been con- siderably reduced. This fact has been recognized by a number of countries. Discriminatory restrictive practices involving dollar pay- ments have been substantially reduced. A number of bilateral agree- ments have been modified to make them less discriminatory and more flexible. 8 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUMMARY 6. There still exists, however, a large body of discriminatory re- strictive practices. In some cases, this reflects the existence of balance of payments difficulties. In other cases, however, the reduction of such practices has not kept pace with the lessening financial need for their maintenance. Other considerations, such as protection of markets, are obstacles to further progress. 7. There has been a decline in the use of multiple currency practices, and important advances have been made by some countries toward unitary exchange rate systems. 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note The following surveys of individual exchange systems of various countries are presented in three groups. The first comprises those mem- ber countries of the Fund which, for the most part, maintain their existing restrictions under the postwar transitional period arrangements of Article XIV of the Fund Agreement. In some of these countries, however, restrictions to which the Fund has given approval under Article VIII of the Agreement may also be in operation. The second group comprises those member countries which do not apply any restrictions under Article XIV; they are referred to as "Article VIII countries." The third group comprises certain countries which, at the time this Report was written, were not members of the Fund. The surveys relate generally to the position in each country as at December 31,1955. For a few countries, however, the surveys relate to a later date or include references to significant developments which took place in early 1956. A standardized framework has been employed in drafting these surveys: each system is described under certain headings and a final section lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the country's restrictive system during 1955. Some notes on the subject matter under each heading are given in the Ex- planatory Note to Part II of the Sixth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions (pages 21-24). 13 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COUNTRIES OPERATING UNDER ARTICLE XIV Afghanistan Australia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Brazil Burma Ceylon Chile China (Taiwan) Colombia Costa Rica Denmark Ecuador Egypt Ethiopia Finland France Germany, Federal Republic of Greece Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Israel Italy Japan Jordan Korea, Republic of Lebanon Netherlands Nicaragua Norway Pakistan Paraguay Peru Philippine Republic Sweden Syria Thailand Turkey Union of South Africa United Kingdom Uruguay Yugoslavia ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Afghani. There are three official exchange rates: the basic rate of 16.80 afghanis buying, 17.01 afghanis selling, per US$1; the second category rate of 21.00 afghanis buying, 21.26 afghanis selling, per US$1; the third category rate of 30.00 afghanis buying, 30.37 afghanis selling, per US$1. These official rates apply to government transactions in invisibles, certain transactions by foreigners employed in Afghanistan, other specified invisibles, imports of essential goods, and registered capital. In addition, there are other effective rates resulting from the obligation to surrender the proceeds from exports of karakul, cotton, and wool in mixed proportions at the specified official rates. There is a fluctuating free market for all other transactions. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by Da Afghanistan Bank, the cen- tral bank of Afghanistan. The control is facilitated by the existence of certain companies specializing in the export of such commodities as karakul and cotton. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements, except that transactions with countries with which Afghanistan has special trade and payments agreements1 must be effected in the foreign currencies specified in the agreements. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on imports. Exchange is pro- vided for imports of government development projects at the second category rate, for essential industrial imports at the third category rate, and for certain other essential imports at the second or the third category rate. Other imports have to be financed in the free market. Payments for Invisibles Government payments for invisibles and payments made to foreign- ers on government contracts in Afghanistan are made at the official 1 These countries are the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and the UJ3.SH. 17 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN basic rate. Foreigners employed in Afghanistan may, after having sold 30 per cent of their salaries in foreign exchange for afghanis at the official basic rate, have the remainder transferred abroad. A few invis- ibles may be remitted at the third category rate. All other authorized payments are settled at the prevailing free market rate. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may not take out more than 500 afghanis in domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exchange proceeds from exports of karakul, cotton, and wool have to be surrendered to Da Afghanistan Bank in certain propor- tions at the specified official exchange rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). The proceeds from exports of such items as carpets and fruits may be used by the exporter to import goods of a corresponding value; otherwise, such proceeds must be surrendered to Da Afghan- istan Bank. All exchange proceeds from other exports may be sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreigners employed in Afghanistan and paid in foreign exchange must surrender at least 30 per cent of their earnings to Da Afghan- istan Bank at the basic rate in order to obtain local currency for their local expenses. The remainder, and exchange receipts from other invisi- ble transactions, may be sold in the free market. The second category rate is, however, applied to purchases of exchange from foreign diplo- mats. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in banknotes not exceeding 500 afghanis or the equivalent. Capital Foreign capital permitted to be invested in Afghanistan, either jointly with Afghan capital or otherwise, must be conducive to the pros- perity and economic and technical advancement of the country even if it does not receive special privileges. Under the Foreign Investment Law of April 24,1954, the remittance of profits and the repatriation of registered capital in respect of all approved foreign investment in indus- try, mining, public works, agriculture, and transportation are guaran- teed at the official basic exchange rate. Subject to permission, all other transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents can be effected through the free market. 18 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (afghanis per UJ5. dollar) AFGHANISTAN Buying 16,80 (Official Basic Rate) 30% of salaries of foreign employees. Registered capital. 21.00 (Official Second Category Rate) Exchange bought by Da Afghanistan Bank from diplomats. 21.57 (40% at Basic Rate, 35% at Sec- ond Category Rate, and 26% at Third Category Rate) Karakul exports. 26.40 (40% at Second Category Rate and 60% at Third Category Rate) Cotton and wool exports. 30.00 (Official Third Category Rate) 41.00-42.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other receipts. Selling 17.01 (Official Basic Rate) Government invisibles. Students' ex- penses abroad. Registered capital. 21.26 (Official Second Category Rate) Government and other essential im- ports. 30.37 (Official Third Category Rate) Expenses of industrial enterprises. Med- ical expenses. Other students' expenses abroad. Essential imports of cotton piece goods. 41.00-42.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other authorized payments. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. Afghanistan became a member of the International Monetary Fund on July 14. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Exchange Rate System The exchange rate system is unitary, based on the par value of Australian Pound 1 = US$2.24. Official rates are fixed for transactions in pounds sterling: £A 125 buying, £A 125/10/- selling, per £100. The authorized banks quote their own rates for other currencies, including the U.S. dollar, based on market quotations in London and New York. Administration of Control The Commonwealth Bank of Australia administers the exchange con- trol on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable dis- cretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Department of Trade and the Department of Customs and Excise, which collaborate with the Treasury and the Commonwealth Bank on foreign currency aspects. Prescription of Currency The Commonwealth Bank, by notices in the Commonwealth Gazette, prescribes the currency which may be accepted for exports to each foreign country or monetary area. Conformity to this prescription is one of the conditions on which the Department of Customs and Excise issues the export license. For payments for imports and other outward payments, the same type of currency prescription operates through central bank directions to the authorized banks. The form of pre- scription in both cases follows closely that of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made (1) in sterling to dollar countries through an American or Canadian Account, and to all other countries through a Transferable Account; (2) in Australian currency through the account of a bank in the country of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia; (3) in dollars to a dollar country; or (4) in certain cases, in the local cur- rency of the exporting country. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, sterling or Australian currency through appropriate accounts (as for imports) must be obtained; alternatively, dollars may be accepted from dollar countries and any specified currency that is freely offered and freely transferable to Australia may be accepted from non-dollar countries. 20 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Nonresident Accounts There is no formal classification, as in the United Kingdom, of the accounts of nonresidents—i.e., those resident outside the Sterling Area —because of the relatively few accounts involved; but the same princi- ples as in the United Kingdom apply. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between the accounts of residents of the same monetary area. All credits to nonresident accounts are subject to approval and are approved in the same circumstances and subject to the same condi- tions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Payment in sterling to an appropriate nonresident account in the United Kingdom is always an alternative method of payment, and this would, in terms of the United Kingdom's payments arrangements, ensure the payee's ability to acquire his own currency if desired. When, however, amounts have been left indefinitely in Australia on non- resident account, they might be regarded as capital if transfer should be sought. Imports and Import Payments Apart from minor exemptions, imports of all goods require import licenses, which are issued by the Department of Customs and Excise, in collaboration with the Department of Trade. For imports from the dollar area, licenses are issued on an administrative basis and are con- fined to items regarded as essential, especially raw materials, industrial supplies, and capital equipment. Licenses for imports from all other countries are granted freely for a few commodities, but for other items licenses are issued mainly on percentage quotas based primarily on imports in the fiscal year 1950-51. For some goods, e.g., machinery and capital equipment, for which quota control is inappropriate, the issu- ance of licenses for imports from non-dollar countries is subject to administrative decision. In general, quotas for non-dollar goods may be used for imports from any non-dollar source, except that a limit is placed on imports of certain commodities from Japan. Imports of cer- tain basic materials are licensed on a nondiscriminatory basis. For imports subject to license, the provision of foreign exchange or permission to credit Australian currency to a nonresident account is automatic following the issuance of the import license, provided the prescription of currency requirements (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) are observed. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Payments for Invisibles All payments in respect of invisibles come under exchange control, but approval is given freely for most items and the control operates largely to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Restrictions apply, however, to allocations of foreign exchange for travel, to earnings of U.S. film companies and of visiting U.S. entertainers, and to dollar expenditures for such items as advertising, insurance of local risks, and newspaper representation abroad. For royalties and service charges due in dollars, approval for transfer is given provided the contract giving rise to the commitment was entered into prior to control or sub- sequently with exchange control permission. Limits are placed on noncontractual transfers, such as donations, remittances for family maintenance, and movements of emigrants' funds; the treatment of applications for such transfers is, however, relatively liberal, and any limitations may be regarded as complementary to the control over capital movements. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports (with minor exceptions) require licenses issued by the Department of Customs and Excise. A condition of these licenses is that full proceeds must be received in a currency and within a period approved by the Commonwealth Bank. To assist supervision, there is a further condition that all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Commonwealth Bank or a trading bank acting as its agent. Unless payment is to be received in a currency and within a period corresponding to those stipulated by the Commonwealth Bank, the exporter's bank will not clear the docu- ments without specific exchange control approval. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in U.S. dollars, as well as U.S. and Canadian dollars in banknote or check form, must be offered for sale within specified periods. Other currency holdings and proceeds from invisibles received in other currencies (except Sterling Area currencies) must be reported and may be disposed of only with permission, but their surrender is not compulsory. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require specific exchange control approval. Approval is granted freely for the repatriation of nonspeculative funds owned by Sterling Area residents; however, no 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA advance commitments are given in such cases. Transfers of resident capital to countries outside the Sterling Area are not allowed other than in very exceptional cases; transfers of nonresident capital are treated on their individual merits, sympathetic consideration being given to cases of personal hardship, special cases of business liquida- tion, etc. There are no restrictions on the receipt of capital funds from abroad, except that residents must obtain prior exchange control approval to borrow foreign currency. Foreign securities owned by Australian residents (other than rights to receive payment in the United States or in U.S. dollars) need not be surrendered, but they must be reported. This obligation does not cover securities whose principal and interest are payable in a currency of the Sterling Area or securities expressed in Canadian dollars and registered in Australia, provided the securities are held within the Sterling Area. The export of securities and transactions in foreign securities are sub- ject to specific exchange control approval. Changes during 1955 During the year, export procedures were modified with a view to easing the tasks of exporters and authorized banks. April 1 Restrictions on non-dollar imports were intensified. The Category A classification (essential items) was formally restored and goods for which the quotas were previously 100 per cent or 90 per cent of base year (1950-51) imports were grouped in this category. The basis for licensing Category A goods was fixed at 85 per cent of base year imports. The quota for Category B goods (nonessential items) was reduced by one third, i.e., from 60 per cent to 40 per cent of base year imports. Imports of about 56 commodities, including replacement parts for a wide range of vehicles and machinery, iron and steel, tobacco, coffee, drugs, crude rubber, and several industrial raw materials, which previ- ously were licensed on a "no quota restriction" basis, were brought under quota control. These items were henceforth to be licensed on the basis of 100 per cent of imports during the year ended December 31, 1954. Goods subject to administrative control were to be licensed on a reduced basis designed to achieve an over-all cut of 20 per cent in administrative licenses. Finally, as a further precautionary measure, licenses covering non-dollar goods were to be issued on a quarterly basis instead of on a six-month basis as previously. 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA May 4 The approved methods of settlement for payments from abroad were revised to permit the receipt of any specified currency both freely offered and freely negotiable for payment of exports to Transferable Account countries. July 1 Turkey was included in the Transferable Account Area. September 2 The Italian lira was included among the specified currencies and became a permissible medium of payment between Australia and the Italian Monetary Area. October 1 Restrictions on both dollar and non-dollar imports were intensified. Goods from the dollar area were made subject to an over-all reduction of 12% per cent. For imports from the non-dollar area, quotas for Category A imports were reduced by 12% per cent, except for certain medical supplies, yarns (except rayon and ju te ), aluminum wire, angles, etc., and nonferrous alloys, which were reduced by 7% per cent; Category B import quotas were reduced by 25 per cent, except for certain special quotas for textiles for manufacturing purposes, which were reduced by 12% per cent. Quotas for fully assembled motor vehicles were reduced by 25 per cent and for completely unassembled motor vehicles by 12% per cent. Other quotas for non-dollar imports (mainly for items that were free from quota restriction prior to April 1, 1955 and were limited to 100 per cent of imports in the year ended December 31,1954) were reduced by 7% per cent; but quotas were not reduced for iron and steel, rubber, rock phosphate, nitrate of soda, and other fertilizers, ferrous alloys, hessian and jute, tobacco leaf, paper pulp, medicines, ball or other bearings, asbestos, and certain nonferrous metals and ores. Imports of non-dollar goods subject to administrative control were reduced by 12% per cent. Further changes introduced a nondiscriminatory arrangement for the licensing of imports of certain basic materials. This arrangement would permit holders of licenses to purchase titanium dioxide, sulphur, paper pulp, cotton, aluminum, nickel, copper, tobacco leaf, hog casings, crude asbestos fiber, and newsprint from any country regardless of currency considerations. A quarterly allocation would be made for these goods, which would be included in a quarterly "all countries" budget. 24 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Austrian Schillings 26.00 — US$1. The official rates are S 25.92 buying, S 26.08 selling, per US$1. Basically, exchange transactions are effected at uniform rates based on the par value, but special arrangements for exchange transactions in Egyptian pounds, Brazilian account dollars, Argentine account dollars, and Spanish account dollars give rise to other rates. Administration of Control The law for the regulation of foreign trade expired December 31, 1955, and the Central Export and Import Office (Zentralstelle fur Aus- und Einfuhr) then ceased to function. For goods for whose export and import licenses are required by the Federal Ministry for Trade and Reconstruction (on the basis of the Raw Materials Control Law ), by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, and by the Federal Ministry for the Interior, Food Department (on the basis of the Food Control Law ), licenses must be procured from the competent Ministry (for licenses required under the Raw Materials Control Law, from the Central Agency for Exports and Imports). Control of import trade is now based on the Foreign Exchange Law and is handled by the Austrian National Bank, which also administers the exchange control. Prescription of Currency Three methods of settling international payments arise from bilateral payments agreements:x 1. In the currency of the partner country. This method is applicable to Austria's settlements with Egypt and the United Kingdom (in- cluding all other territories of the Sterling Area, but transactions with Iceland are settled through a clearing account kept in pounds sterling). 2. In the currency of the partner country or in Austrian schillings. This method is applicable to Austria's settlements with Belgium- Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland. 1 Besides agreements with EPU countries, Austria has bilateral payments arrange- ments with Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, East Germany, Hungary, Poland, Eumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA 3. In U.S. dollars as the currency of account. This method is applicable to Austria's settlements with Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, East Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Spain, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries are prescribed in the individual exchange licenses. Nonresident Accounts The four main categories of nonresident accounts in Austrian schil- lings are described in the following paragraphs. 1. Free schilling accounts originate from the sale of gold, gold coins, and freely convertible exchange by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank or to an Austrian authorized bank. With a few excep- tions, disposal of these accounts is permitted freely, including transfers from one free schilling account to another and the conversion of the balance on such an account into foreign currency. 2. Authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom may maintain schilling accounts with authorized Austrian banks. All payments permissible under 'the bilateral payments agreement with each of these countries may be settled through such accounts. 3. Blocked accounts accrue from various categories of payments that have been made in favor of nonresidents and are not allowed to be transferred abroad. Balances on these accounts may not be used in Austria except as permitted under general or individual license. How- ever, if these accounts are held with authorized banks, they may be debited freely for payments in Austria on behalf of the account holder for the following purposes: (a) donations (e.g., to relatives for personal aid, or to social, religious, or similar institutions) or maintenance pay- ments to residents eligible for such payments, up to S 1,500 per person per month, but total withdrawals may not exceed S 6,000 per month; (b) payments to residents of certified claims arising in connection with the opening or the administration of a blocked account or other blocked property of the account holder (e.g., bankers' commissions, handling charges, deposit f e e s ); (c) payments of taxes and other public fees and charges, and legal counsel and notary fees owed by the account holder in Austria; (d) settlement of the travel expenses in Austria of the account holder and his family and accompanying servants, up to S 5,000 per person per week; (e) payments for the maintenance of graves; and (f) payments for real estate and related rights, and for 26 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA securities. Blocked accounts may also be debited freely for specified investments in Austria; the permission of the Austrian National Bank is required for any other investment. The transfer of balances held by OEEC residents as at June 30, 1954 on blocked accounts with author- ized banks is, upon application, authorized freely to any OEEC country. 4. Administration accounts accrue from proceeds derived from nonresident-owned real property and deposited with an Austrian credit institution. Balances on these accounts may be used freely for certain payments to residents, e.g., for the personal expenses of nonresidents in Austria and public charges not related to merchandise transactions. Imports and Import Payments Liberalized imports are those specified goods that may be imported from OEEC countries without an import or an exchange license. Im- porters may utilize their retained export and other proceeds in EPU currencies held with Austrian foreign exchange dealers or they may freely purchase EPU currencies from the authorized banks, in order to effect payments related to such imports. In addition, certain imports from the United States and Canada are also liberalized, but exchange licenses are required for such imports. Other imports require exchange licenses and, for goods that are sub- ject to licensing on the basis of the Raw Materials Control Law or the Food Control Law, import licenses. (The lists of goods issued on the basis of these two laws contain about 300 out of a total of 558 tariff items.) The main considerations in the issuance of import licenses and of exchange licenses are the terms of bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas agreed therein, the needs of the Austrian economy, and the level of Austria's foreign exchange reserves. Compensation (barter) transactions are, in general, permitted with those countries with which Austria has no payments or clearing agree- ments, when there is no other way of settling payments. Such trans- actions are subject to individual licensing by the Austrian National Bank. If the barter transaction includes goods whose import is subject to the Raw Materials Control Law or to the Food Control Law, an import license is also required. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are subject to individual licensing by the Austrian National Bank, with the exception of those settled through 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA EPU, which may, under certain conditions (the chief exception being capital transfers), be effected without license. The transfer of capital earnings to EPU countries is permitted within the framework of the liberalization applied to OEEC countries. Licenses are generally granted after taking into account the terms of existing bilateral trade agreements and such other considerations as the principle of reciprocity, hardship cases, and the availability of foreign exchange. For payments connected with the international transport of goods, export commis- sions, installations, services, and performance, licenses are granted automatically. Residents traveling as tourists to OEEC countries may receive yearly allocations of exchange up to the equivalent of S 5,200 per adult. Per- sons going abroad may take with them S 10,000 in Austrian currency and any amount in foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Goods contained in lists issued on the basis of the Raw Materials Control Law and the Food Control Law (about 230 out of a total of 558 tariff items) require export licenses. In the issuance of export licenses, due consideration is given to the provisions of any relevant bilateral trade agreements and the fulfillment of quotas established in accord- ance with such agreements, and to the needs of the Austrian economy. In principle, exports effected and export claims must be declared and export proceeds surrenderd. If the exporter has obtained permission to maintain a foreign exchange account with an authorized Austrian bank, he may keep the export proceeds for six months; the use of these amounts is, however, subject to the same conditions as those applying to other outgoing payments. The following items are exempt from the general obligation to declare export claims and surrender export proceeds: (1) Claims and proceeds settled through EPU (if kept in accounts with authorized Austrian banks); such exchange may be used freely for conversion into other EPU currencies or for payment of the holder's debts to creditors in the EPU area (with the exception of capital payments and payments in the transit and processing trades). (2) Claims and proceeds arising from exports to Egypt and collected through a "collector account" estab- lished in accordance with the Austrian-Egyptian payments agreement of July 6, 1953, as well as those resulting from exports to Argentina, Brazil, or Spain and collected in Argentina, Brazilian, or Spanish account dollars; such exchange may be fold at free rates through authorized banks to Austrian residents holdmg valid exchange licenses for payments to Egypt, Argentina, Brazil^ m Spain, respectively. 28 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Proceeds from Invisibles In general, exchange receipts from invisibles have to be surrendered within eight days from the date of collection, with the exception of EPU currencies held with Austrian banks and other credit institutions and proceeds credited to an account under the agreement with Egypt, Argentina, Brazil, or Spain (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, above). A number of institutions, such as insurance companies and patent offices, are granted open licenses to use their exchange pro- ceeds for payments on their own account. Persons entering Austrian territory are free to. bring in Austrian or foreign currency without limit. Capital The utilization of foreign capital by residents and new investments in Austria by nonresidents require licenses from the National Bank; these licenses are granted after careful scrutiny of each case, the inter- ests of the national economy as a whole being taken into consideration. Foreign exchange brought in for investment purposes must, in principle, be surrendered. Requests for the transfer of capital and capital proceeds arising from new investments are granted under the terms originally laid down when the investment was authorized. Proceeds accruing from sales by nonresidents of securities, enterprises, and real estate and related rights, as well as other payments not permitted to be trans- ferred abroad, are usually credited to blocked accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The transfer of capital abroad by residents is subject to approval, which is granted only in exceptional cases. The export of foreign securities held by nonresidents is, as a rule, per- mitted. An open license has been granted for such transactions as (1) the export of securities for the purpose of realizing rights and claims thereunder abroad; (2) the export of securities owned by nonresidents; and (3) the export of foreign securities owned by residents for sale abroad (the proceeds must be declared). Nonresidents may acquire fixed-interest-bearing securities only against payment in freely con- vertible currencies, or to the debit of schilling balances originating from the sale of such currencies, or to the debit of blocked schilling accounts. The proceeds are, in general, to be deposited in a blocked account; they are, however, transferable to EPU countries within the framework of the liberalization of p%|rments within the OEEC area. 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Changes during 1955 June 26 Austrian exchange control regulations were codified, and certain modifications and liberalizations were introduced, in particular con- cerning the disposal of securities and participation rights involving nonresident interests. Julyl The percentage of liberalized imports from OEEC countries was raised from 82.4 to 83.5. July 15 Specified imports from the United States and Canada, amounting to about 8 per cent of total imports from these countries in 1953, were freed from quantitative restriction. August 8 The provision that Austrian debtors were granted licenses to make payments to Brazil only on condition that 10 per cent of the total amount of the payment applied for was covered by balances of the National Bank of Austria at the Bank of Brazil was revoked. December 23 It was announced that, in connection with the expiration of the Foreign Trade Control Law on December 31, 1955, the general license permitting residents to enter freely into financial obligations related to nonliberalized imports from OEEC countries, as well as to liberalized imports from Canada and the United States not listed under the Foreign Trade Control Law, would be withdrawn as from January 1, 1956. Therefore, contracts for the purchase of goods abroad, except for liberalized imports from OEEC countries, became subject to individual exchange license. December 24 It was announced that the liberalization of imports from OEEC countries would be raised from 83.5 per cent to 88.7 per cent as of January 1,1956, and to 90.3 per cent by June 1,1956. 30 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG l Exchange Rate System The par values are Belgian Francs and Luxembourg Francs 50 = US$1. There are two exchange markets—official and free. Most cur- rent transactions are settled through the official market; most financial (i.e., capital and certain current) transactions are settled only through the free market, although for some current and some financial trans- actions there is a choice between the two exchange markets. In the official exchange market, only authorized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market, at rates maintained within official limits corresponding to BF 49.50 and BF 50.50 per US$1. The currencies in the official market are Canadian dollars, Czechoslovak korunas, Danish kroner, deutsche marks, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Belgium and Luxembourg participate with Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, with other authorized banks in any of these territories in any of their currencies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward rates are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg may also sell Belgian and Luxembourg francs to banks in Brazil against deutsche marks, Netherlands guilders, or pounds sterling. In the free exchange market, all currencies may be negotiated at freely fluctuating rates by authorized banks, other residents, and non- residents. In practice, however, only the major currencies are nego- tiated in the free market. Dollars derived from transactions of a non- commercial nature, and other currencies regardless of the nature of the underlying transaction, may be sold in the free market, but EPU cur- rencies purchased in the free market may be used only for noncom- mercial transactions. Exchange transactions in connection with the free gold market are also carried out in the free exchange market. Exchange transactions in Egyptian pounds are settled at freely determined rates 1This survey takes account of the establishment of a free gold market, open to both residents and nonresidents, on January 1, 1956. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG but on a forward exchange basis. Apart from the exchange rate for the Egyptian pound, the rates in the free market have been, for the most part, within 1 per cent of the parity rates. Exchange Control Territory The Belgian Monetary Area, which consists of Belgium, Luxembourg, the Belgian Congo, and the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi, is treated as a single exchange control territory in relation to countries with which Belgium has concluded payments agreements. Although the Belgian Congo and the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi have their own exchange control system, very few restrictions are in force be- tween the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union on the one side and the Belgian Congo and the Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi on the other. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administration of exchange con- trol in the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union is exercised by the Institut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change, which is the central ex- change control authority for the Union. Administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks, but in special cases authorized banks must submit requests for authorization to the central authority. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the currency to be used for incoming and outgoing current payments is an integral part of the restrictive system of Belgium-Luxembourg. It seeks to limit payments in hard currencies to imports and services originating in countries with convertible currencies and to prevent any undue accumulation of inconvertible currencies; and it ensures that commercial payments coming in from the dollar area or going out to EPU and bilateral account countries are channeled through the official market or, if in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, through the corresponding type of nonresident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). The permissible methods of settlement for foreign payments are sum- marized in the accompanying table. All inward and outward transactions are classified in three groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, trans- 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG SUMMARY OP PEBMISSIBLB METHODS OP SETTLEMENT FOB FOREIGN PAYMENTS Class of Transaction Country Group Exchange Market Foreign Currency Nonresident Account Lists A and B Dollar EPU Bilateral Outward Payments Official; free Official None2 All EPU None2 All EPU Bilateral of coun- try concerned No Agreement Official EPU; korunas EPU; Bilateral; No Agreement ListC All Free Official All EPU; korunas EPU; Bilateral; No Agreement; Financial List A All EPU Bilateral Inward Payments Official Official; free None2 Dollars EPU None2 No Agreement Free All except EPU and korunas Convertible EPU; No Agree- ment Bilateral of coun- try concerned ; No Agreement No Agreement Lists B andC Also for ListB All EPU Bilateral Official Free Official None2 Dollars Convertible All EPU None2 Financial EPU; No Agree- ment Bilateral of coun- try concerned; No Agreement No Agreement None None No Agreement 2 In some settlements with Argentina, Czechoslovakia, and Egypt, there is the possibility of payment in Argentine "agreement dollars," Czechoslovak korunas, or Egyptian pounds, respectively. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG port expenses, other commercial expenses, and industrial expenses (e.g., costs of processing); List B covers administrative expenses, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, noncommercial insurance, public admin- istration payments, and all transactions not on List A or List C; List C covers traveling expenses, gifts, family maintenance, capital invest- ments, income and capital including the liquidation of investments, and dealings in gold. Foreign countries are divided into four groups: (1) dollar countries are listed as Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Japan, Mexico, Nicaragua, Peru, the Philippine Republic, the United States and possessions, and Venezuela; (2) EPU countries are listed as Austria, Denmark, the French Monetary Area, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, the Portuguese Monetary Area, the Sterling Area, Sweden, and Switzer- land; (3) bilateral countries are listed as Argentina,3 Bulgaria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Finland, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia; (4) all other countries are called No Agreement countries. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of nonresidents are classified in five types. The use of these accounts, other than for the settlement of transactions with residents as indicated in the last column of the table above, is outlined below. 1. Convertible Accounts. These are not denominated by the country of residence of the account holder, and may be opened in the name of any nonresident. They may be credited with current payments due to the dollar area and with proceeds from the sale on the official market by a nonresident of U.S. and Canadian dollars to authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be trans- ferred freely to any resident or nonresident account or be converted into any currency on the official or the free market. 2. EPU Accounts. These are the accounts of authorized banks in EPU countries, except Turkey. They may be credited with the pro- ceeds of the sale by a nonresident of dollars or EPU currencies on the official market. Balances on EPU Accounts may be transferred freely to all other EPU Accounts or be converted into any EPU currency on the official market. 8 Effective January 23, 1956, Argentine Bilateral Accounts were transformed into No Agreement Accounts. 34 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOUR6 3. Bilateral Accounts. These are the accounts of authorized banks in bilateral countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with the proceeds of the sale by a nonresident of dollars on the official market. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts of the same nationality. Bel- gian or Luxembourg francs in Bilateral Accounts related to Czecho- slovakia may be exchanged against Czechoslovak korunas on the official market. 4. No Agreement (sans accord) Accounts. These are the accounts of all persons, including banks, in countries outside the dollar, EPU, and bilateral groups (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). They may be credited with the proceeds of the sale by a nonresident of dollars on the official market. Balances on No Agreement Accounts may be converted into EPU currencies or Czechoslovak korunas on the official market. No Agreement Accounts may be transferred freely to EPU, Bilateral, or other No Agreement Accounts. 5. Financial Accounts. These accounts, like the Convertible Accounts, are not denominated by the country of residence of the account holder, and may be opened for any nonresident. They are primarily for capi- tal transfers and traveling expenses, although other specified settle- ments, such as those related to dealings in gold, may be made through them. Balances on Financial Accounts may be transferred freely to any type of account except a Convertible Account. Financial Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency on the free market and of dollars on the official market. They are exchangeable into gold or any currency at free market rates and also into EPU currencies and Czechoslovak korunas on the official market. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain goods from any country require import licenses; these goods are listed by an intergovernmental Belgian-Luxembourg commission. For goods not so listed, an import declaration must be filled out by the importer. Imports of all goods from Argentina, East Germany, Turkey, or Uruguay require import licenses. Both import licenses and import declarations must be stamped by an authorized bank before exchange can be made available and before importation can take place. In the case of import declarations, the authorized bank is required to make certain that payment will be made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above). Where the requirements are not fulfilled, 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permission to stamp the document. The require- ments are simplified for imports not exceeding BF 10,000. Only for dollar imports is submission to an authorized bank of supporting documents (invoices, contracts, etc.) required before exchange can be made available. Payments for Invisibles For payments to the dollar area for invisible transactions, if they are to be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account, supporting documents must be presented to an authorized bank and, in some cases, the approval of the central exchange control authority is required. These requirements do not apply to payments to non-dollar countries. Pay- ments to dollar countries for certain invisible transactions may be made only through the free market or by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Financial Account. For other invisible transactions, there is a choice of exchange market and of type of nonresident account through which the payment may be made (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exports and Export Proceeds Except for minor cases where the goods have a limited value, all exports require either an export license issued by the trade control authorities or an export declaration filled out by the exporter. The requirements are simplified for exports not exceeding BF 10,000. An intergovernmental Belgian-Luxembourg commission lists the goods that require export licenses. Before the export can take place, the license or the declaration must be stamped by an authorized bank. In the case of export declarations, the authorized bank is required to make sure that the proceeds will be received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All exports to Argen- tina, Mainland China, East Germany, North Korea, Turkey, Uruguay, and North Vietnam are subject to license. Only export proceeds in Canadian or U.S. dollars need be surrendered to an authorized bank. Alternatively, export proceeds in these two cur- rencies may be held in a "commercial" account with an authorized bank and used for all payments authorized to be made in these currencies. For the sale on the official market of EPU currencies derived from exports, for the retention of such proceeds in a "commercial" account, and for the receipt of Belgian or Luxembourg francs from an EPU or 36 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Bilateral Account of a nonresident, the beneficiary is required to submit evidence of the underlying transaction to an authorized bank, if the amount exceeds BF 10,000. Export proceeds in an EPU currency not sold on the official market to an authorized bank may be sold on the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Only exchange proceeds from invisibles connected with certain com- mercial transactions (List A—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) received in Canadian or U.S. dollars need be surrendered, i.e., sold on the official exchange market. Alternatively, they may be held in a "commercial" account with an authorized bank and used for all payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Exchange receipts in EPU currencies derived from most invisible transactions may be sold on the official market, but proof of the underlying transaction must be presented to an authorized bank; they may also be retained or sold on the free market. All other exchange proceeds may be retained or sold on the free market. Capital All capital transactions may be carried out freely through the free market or by settlement in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident. Incoming capital may also be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars through the official market or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the debit of a Convertible Account. Outgoing capital may also be remitted in EPU currencies or Czecho- slovak korunas through the official market or in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to the credit of any nonresident account except a Con- vertible Account. There are arrangements by which the exchange con- trol authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments that are made in Belgium-Luxembourg in accordance with the general regulations governing incoming payments (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All transactions in securities by resi- dents or nonresidents are free, but financial settlements must conform to the general regulations. Securities in Netherlands guilders exported to countries other than the Netherlands must have a "red (exportable) certificate" provided by the Netherlands authorities. Banknotes Transactions in banknotes may be carried out freely by all residents and nonresidents at freely fluctuating rates. Banknotes may be im- 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG ported and exported without restriction, but they may not be used to settle foreign transactions other than tourism, banknote arbitrage, and the purchase and sale of gold. Changes during 1955 January 12 All imports from Turkey were made subject to license. March 1 A new payments agreement with Argentina came into effect, under which all settlements for current transactions between the Belgian Monetary Area and Argentina were to be made in "agreement dollars" through an account held in the name of the Central Bank of the Re- public of Argentina on the books of the National Bank of Belgium. The official rate of the "agreement dollar" would be fixed daily on the basis of the official market quotation for the U.S. dollar. April 1 The choice of the method of payment open to residents in their trans- actions with other countries and the transferability of accounts held by nonresidents were widened, and the free market for capital and certain current transactions was extended to all non-dollar currencies. Non- resident accounts were arranged in five groups (see Sixth Annual Re- port on Exchange Restrictions, pages 52-53). All payments in favor of Turkish residents for Turkish goods im- ported into the Belgian Monetary Area had henceforth to be made through the account held by the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey on the books of the National Bank of Belgium; Turkey was now regarded in the Belgian-Luxembourg exchange control regulations as a bilateral account country. May 1 The free market for capital and certain current transactions, previ- ously limited to non-dollar currencies, was extended to all currencies. Authorized banks and dealers were permitted to purchase dollar securi- ties freely with dollars not subject to a surrender obligation. 38 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG June 13 All imports from and exports to Argentina were made subject to license. All exports to Mainland China, North Korea, and North Viet- nam were also made subject to license. July 18 The exchange control regulations were further simplified by adapting them to the existence of the two exchange markets—free and official. The transfer of capital to all destinations and all transactions in foreign currencies on the free market were made free, and all regula- tions concerning transactions in coupons and securities or limiting the export of banknotes were abolished. August 22 The Italian lira was quoted on the official exchange market. Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. November 18 As part of the changes in the exchange system of Argentina, the authorities of that country limited settlements in "agreement dollars" through the centralized account to payments to certain goods, while payments for other goods and all invisibles were to be settled through the Argentine free market. Consequently, the Belgian-Luxembourg regulations were revised to permit payments in favor of Argentine resi- dents not eligible for settlement through the centralized account to be made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to an Argentine Bilateral Account. (See also footnote 2, above.) December 1 Belgium-Luxembourg joined the Brazilian arrangements under which Brazil pools its receipts of certain European currencies (the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom were already participants). In the Belgian-Luxembourg exchange control regulations, Brazil was transferred from the group of bilateral coun- tries to the No Agreement group. 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG December 5 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, in the multilateral ex- change arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. December 15 In the Belgian-Luxembourg exchange control regulations, Colombia was included in the group of dollar countries. No Agreement Accounts related to Colombia were transformed into Convertible Accounts. December 30 It was announced that dealings in gold, including its import and export, would be permitted freely as from January 1,1956. Settlement for nonresidents could, however, only be made in banknotes, or through the free exchange market, or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs through a Financial Account. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Bolivianos 190 — US$1. The exchange rate system consists of an official market, where the rates are Bs 190 buying, Bs 191.90 selling, per US$1, and a fluctuating free market, where the rate is determined by demand and supply. The official market is only for trade transactions, government payments and receipts, registered capi- tal, and certain specified invisibles, including sales to the Bolivian Min- ing Corporation and the Banco Minero for all their foreign exchange requirements. Special fixed rates apply to imports on credit under special contracts. The free market is for all other items, including the official sale of dollars at auction and part of the proceeds of certain private exports and of excess production by small and medium-sized mining firms. Various exchange premiums, in addition to the boliviano equivaleijit at the official rate, are payable on purchases of exchange in the official market from certain exporters: exports of the Bolivian Mining Corpo- ration, Bs 320 per US$1; exports of the Banco Minero, Bs 710 per US$1; exports of the Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB) to Argentina, Bs 370 per US$1 on and after March 27,1955 and, retro- actively, Bs 210 per US$1 before that date; and exports of the YPFB to other countries, Bs 1,310 per US$1 on and after April 1, 1955 and, retroactively, Bs 810 per US$1 before that date. A tax equivalent to Bs 35 per US$1 is levied on purchases at the official rate of exchange arising from exports of the Bolivian Mining Corporation, when the world market price for tin exceeds the equivalent of US$1 per pound. A tax of Bs 200 is payable on each U.S. dollar sold at the official rate to students abroad. The Banco Minero and private individuals are authorized to ex- change, at the Central Bank, domestically produced gold for gold coins containing 7, 14, or 35 grams of fine gold. The coins may be exported or sold at auction through the free market. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank of Bolivia. As agent of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank prepares annually an exchange budget for various categories of import commodities, which is the basis for granting import licenses, and issues export licenses. The Office for Promotion of Export Production under the Ministry of Na- tional Economy fixes export quotas. All sales and purchases of official 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA exchange are made through the Central Bank or the authorized banks. Banks, hotels, and other private firms may be authorized to operate in the free market. Foreign exchange transactions involving exports of minerals are effected only by the Banco Minero or by the Bolivian Min- ing Corporation. Prescription of Currency Payments to and from payments agreement countries are made in the currencies and according to the methods laid down in the exchange control regulations for each of the countries involved.1 Payments for transactions with other countries are usually made in sterling or U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Within the limits of the exchange available, as indicated by the exchange budget, the Central Bank grants import licenses for the various commodities and for various currencies. Applications for import permits are subject to a fee of ^ of 1 per cent. Global quotas are established for different commodities and are distributed among the importers. Small and medium-sized mining firms are guaranteed the issue of import licenses for their own operating or capital requirements up to 16 per cent of the proceeds of their exports and, in addition, up to 80 per cent of the value of minerals produced in excess of average production in the years 1952 to 1954. For essential commodities and cer- tain essential consumer goods, the sole importer is the Government, which in turn distributes the goods among merchants or sells directly to the public. Private exporters of specified agricultural and other products and the small and medium-sized mining firms derive special negotiable import privileges from their export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Imports on credit under special purchase contracts concluded with certain European manufacturers are settled at special exchange rates according to the terms of the contract and the instructions of the Min- istry of Finance. Under the contract covering the largest number of imports on credit, settlements are made at a rate of Bs 1,275 per US$1. When a valid, approved import license is presented, and after the merchandise has arrived in the Bolivian customs or a letter of credit has been opened, authorized banks grant the exchange in the currency and for the amount specified therein. 1 Bolivia has payments agreements with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, France, and Uruguay. 42 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are subject to a special permit if they are to be eligible for the official market rate. Payments for invisibles inci- dental to import transactions are treated in the same way as the cor- responding imports. Sales of exchange for government payments and the servicing of registered capital are effected at the official market rate. There is a tax of Bs 200 on each dollar sold at the official rate to stu- dents abroad. Exchange for other invisible transactions, with some exceptions, is obtained at the free market rate, without the requirement of a license. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license. The export of a number of specified commodities considered necessary to the national economy is pro- hibited. The Office for Promotion of Export Production establishes quotas for private exports. The Bolivian Mining Corporation is re- sponsible for exports of the minerals produced in its own mines. Exports of minerals produced by small and medium-sized mines are effected through the Banco Minero. All exchange receipts from exports, except those received by the Banco Minero, must be surrendered through the authorized banks within 90 days from the issuance of the export license. The Banco Minero surrenders to the Central Bank, 30 days after export, the ex- change derived from exports of minerals. An export tax equivalent to Bs 35 per US$1 is levied on purchases of exchange at the official rate arising from exports of the Bolivian Mining Corporation, when the world market price for tin exceeds the equiva- lent of US$1 per pound. Private exporters of specified agricultural and other products and merchandise and of nonmetallic minerals who export through the Office for Promotion of Export Production are entitled to various im- port and exchange privileges up to the amount of the foreign exchange proceeds of the export. Under these arrangements, up to 60 per cent of the export exchange may be used to import specified capital goods and equipment—such as machinery, trucks, tractors, construction mate- rials, and articles for sanitation and electrical installations. However, for exports of rubber, chestnuts, cacao, and any other product specified by the Minister of National Economy, 40 per cent may be used to import capital goods and equipment and 20 per cent to import articles of prime necessity. In both cases, 40 per cent of the value of the 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA export (including freight, insurance, and any other payments made in foreign exchange) may be used for imports of general merchandise or be deposited with the Central Bank for sale by auction in the free exchange market. Imports of prime necessities must be sold at fixed prices but all other imports under the arrangements may be sold in the open market. Import rights under the arrangements may be freely sold to registered importers, and the resulting imports are exempt from import taxes (which range up to 1,500 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports). Small and medium-sized mining firms are guaranteed the issue of import licenses for their own operating or capital requirements up to 16 per cent of the proceeds of their exports through the Banco Minero and, in addition, up to 80 per cent of the value of minerals produced for export in excess of their average production in the years 1952 to 1954. As an alternative to the receipt of import licenses for increased production, small and medium-sized mining firms are permitted to sell the exchange equivalent to the excess production in the free exchange market. Proceeds from Invisibles Government receipts are surrendered at the official market rate. Exchange derived from other invisibles is negotiated at the free market rate. Capital Residents may retain capital receipts in the form of foreign exchange or sell them in the free exchange market. Nonresidents, in order to obtain the privilege of remitting earnings up to 15 per cent per annum and amortization quotas up to 30 per cent at the official market rate, must register the capital invested and surrender the foreign exchange in the official market. Unregistered capital and earnings thereon may be repatriated at the free market rate, without a license. 44 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1955) (bolivianos per UJS. dollar) BOLIVIA Selling 191.90 (Official Rate) Government payments. Most imports2 and related invisibles. Other specified invisibles. Registered capital. 391.90 (Official Rate plus Bs 200 Tax) Payments to students abroad. Buying 190.00 (Official Rate) All export proceeds other than those listed below. Government receipts. Registered capital. 510.00 (Official Rate plus Bs 320 Pre- mium) Exports of Bolivian Mining Corpora- tion.3 560.00 (Official Rate plus Bs S70 Pre- mium) Exports of Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos to Argentina. 900.00 (Official Rate plus Bs 710 Pre- mium) Exports of small and medium-sized min- ing firms through Banco Minero. 1,275.00 (Special Contract Rate) Imports on credit under a special con- tract.4 1,500.00 (Official Rate plus Bs 1,810 Premium) Exports of Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos to countries other than Argentina. 5,000.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Part of proceeds of specified private ex- ports (except metallic minerals). Pro- duction over 1952-54 average of small and medium-sized mining firms through Banco Minero. Invisibles. Unregistered capital. Note: Other effective rates are derived from the negotiation of import rights granted to certain classes of exporters in respect of certain export proceeds. 5,000.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other invisibles. Unregistered capi- tal. Auctions of official exchange. Changes during 1955 March 24 In addition to the boliviano proceeds at the official rate of exchange, exchange premiums became payable, at the rate of Bs 320 per US$1 to 2 However, import taxes ranging up to 1,500 per cent are applicable to most private and some government imports. 8 When the world market price for tin exceeds the equivalent of US$1 per pound, a tax equivalent to Bs 35 per US$1 is levied on purchases of exchange arising from exports of the Bolivian Mining Corporation. 4 Other special rates apply to imports on credit under other special contracts. 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA the Bolivian Mining Corporation and of Bs 710 per US$1 to the Banco Minero, on all export proceeds surrendered to the Central Bank. Small and medium-sized mining firms were guaranteed the issue of import licenses for their own operating or capital requirements up to 16 per cent of the proceeds of their exports and, in addition, up to 80 per cent of the value of minerals produced in excess of their average production in the years 1952 to 1954. As an alternative to the issue of import licenses for increased production, small and medium-sized min- ing firms were permitted to sell the equivalent exchange in the free exchange market. April 12 Exchange premiums similar to those introduced on March 24 became payable to the Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos, at rates of from Bs 210 to Bs 1,310 per US$1. November 3 An Ofllce for Promotion of Export Production (OFPE) was created under the Ministry of National Economy and the functions of the Office for Promotion of Exports under the Central Bank were transferred to it. The OFPE was charged with fostering production of agricultural and other products and merchandise and nonmetallic mineral output and with fixing export quotas and minimum prices for such products. Exporters of specified commodities under these arrangements became entitled to various import and other exchange privileges up to the amount of the foreign exchange proceeds of the export. Accordingly, up to 60 per cent of the export exchange may be used to import speci- fied capital goods and equipment (such as machinery, trucks, tractors, construction materials, and articles for sanitation and electrical instal- lations) , except if the export is rubber, chestnuts, cacao, or any other product specified by the Minister of National Economy, in which case 40 per cent may be used to import capital goods and equipment and 20 per cent to import articles of prime necessity. In both cases, 40 per cent of the value of the export (including freight, insurance, and any other payments to be made in foreign exchange) may be used for im- ports of general merchandise or be deposited with the Central Bank for sale by auction in the free exchange market. Imports of prime necessities must be sold at fixed prices but all other imports under these arrangements may be sold in the open market. Under the arrangements, exporters may freely sell their import rights to registered importers. Imports under the arrangements are exempt from import taxes on the c.i.f. value. 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Exchange Rate System The par value is Brazilian Cruzeiros 18.50 = US$1. The official rates are Cr$18.36 buying, Cr$18.82 selling, per US$1. A 10 per cent exchange tax applied to nearly all payments made through the official market results in a selling rate of Cr$20.70 per US$1. However, the effective rates for most private import transactions are obtained by add- ing to this rate the prices of the related exchange certificates obtained at auction. These prices and, consequently, the effective rates fluctuate. The effective rates for the proceeds of exports are obtained by adding the established fixed bonuses to the Cr$18.36 rate. There are now in force three different sets of fixed bonuses, and for each set two different bonuses are established, one for proceeds in convertible currencies, pounds sterling, deutsche marks, Netherlands guilders, and Belgian francs (referred to in this survey as the "multilateral currencies"), the other for proceeds in all other currencies. All invisible transactions not directly related to the movement of goods and most capital trans- actions are effected at a fluctuating free market rate. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The control system is operated by the Bank of Brazil under the direction of the Council of the Superintendency of Money and Credit (SUMOC). The Exchange Department of the Bank authorizes incom- ing and outgoing payments related to most trade transactions and to capital transactions in specified cases; it organizes the auctions of exchange for imports, establishes the total amount and the distribution among the various cities in Brazil where the exchange is auctioned, and issues exchange certificates. Government departments and public entities are requested to present to the Exchange Department semi- annual estimates of their needs for imports and service payments. With these estimates as a basis, the Council of the SUMOC fixes the maximum quota to be utilized by those entities. The Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil issues export and import licenses, classifies import commodities into categories—subject to the approval of the Council of the SUMOC —for the purpose of distribution of exchange availabilities, determines the percentage of total exchange auctioned to be distributed to each category of import commodity, and exercises control over prices, weights, measures, classification, and types declared in export and import operations. The Advisory Com- mission on Foreign Trade makes suggestions to the Foreign Trade 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Department regarding the classification of the import products into categories and on those measures which it considers advisable for the development of foreign trade. It also suggests general criteria concern- ing export and import licensing. A few government imports have to be approved by the President of the Republic. Imports of wheat, news- print, and petroleum products are subject to specific treatment by specialized agencies. All sales and purchases of exchange pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is enforced in relation to the currency of the country of origin of imports and to the currency of the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically prescribed or authorized. Payments with Belgium-Luxembourg, the Federal Repub- lic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom may be effected in the currency of any of these countries. Payments with payments agreement countries are effected through the relevant agree- ment accounts, usually maintained in "accounting dollars."x Payments with countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements are usually effected in U.S. dollars or other freely convertible currencies. Imports and Import Payments Except for a few specified items, all private imports into Brazil require import licenses. These are granted freely to holders of exchange certificates purchased at auction, provided the application complies with the regulations in force; they are prerequisites for obtaining exchange at the official rate. The licensing of, and the payments for, imports are thus strictly related, and for both purposes imports may be divided into the groups described in the following paragraphs. 1. Specified commodities for which payment, if necessary, is not effected through the auction system: In this category are government imports (including imports of wheat) and imports of maps, books, newspapers, magazines, etc.; these are subject to a surcharge of Cr$25 per US$12 or the equivalent in other currencies. Imports of newsprint, 1 Brazil has bilateral payments agreements with Denmark, France, Iceland, and Sweden, and agreements requiring settlements to be made in "accounting dollars" with Argentina, Austria, Bolivia, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Agreements with Belgium-Luxembourg, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom provide for settlements on a multilateral basis with these countries in any of their currencies. 2 Prior to the end of December 1955, the surcharge on payments for imports of wheat was Cr$7 per US$1. 48 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL paper, and other material used by publishing companies or book printers, which are effected at the official rate, are also included in this category, as well as imports without exchange cover. Exchange for government imports and for imports of newsprint and other printing paper is allocated directly by the Council of the SUMOC. 2. Imports of petroleum products: In addition to being subject to import license, these imports must be authorized by the National Petroleum Council. Exchange is allocated on a half-yearly basis, and purchases of exchange are effected through special auctions. The premiums for the first half of 1956 are as follows (in cruzeiros per U.S. dollar): liquefied petroleum gas, fuel oil, and diesel oil, Cr$15; avia- tion gasoline, Cr$25; crude oil, kerosene, signal oil, and lubricating oil, Cr$35; gasoline, Cr$70; and "premium" gasoline, Cr$150. 3. Imports of groups of equipment financed in foreign currency and intended for the production of commodities classified in import Categories I, II, or III (see paragraph 4, below): These may be author- ized by the Foreign Trade Department if the annual payment install- ments do not exceed 20 per cent of the total value financed. Exchange for such equipment may be granted by the Exchange Department at the official rate, provided the importer prepays a surcharge, which until further deliberation is fixed at Cr$40 per US$1 or the equivalent in other currencies. The commitment on the part of the Exchange Depart- ment to provide exchange depends on exchange availability, and the amounts corresponding to the obligations assumed must be earmarked. The Exchange Department may also permit payment to be made, in whole or in part, through the free market. Capital goods used in the production of commodities other than those classified in the first three import categories may be imported in accordance with the above pro- vision only by a decision of the Council of the SUMOC, taking into account the criteria proposed by the National Council of Economy. 4. All other imports: These imports are subject to the purchase of exchange certificates at auction and to subsequent import licensing. For the purpose of allocating exchange in accordance with essentiality, these imports are classified into five categories, according to the fol- lowing general criteria: Category I: Essential commodities necessary to promote employ- ment and agricultural production, as well as certain pharmaceuti- cal products, etc. Category II: Essential raw materials and codfish 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Category III: Other raw materials and highly essential spare parts and equipment Category IV: Fresh fruits, less essential spare parts and equipment, office machinery, and certain consumer goods Category V: All other products The price of the exchange certificates purchased at auction must be paid within 3 days from the moment of purchase, and the application for an import license must be filed within the following 30 days. Importers in possession of an exchange certificate and an import license may purchase the exchange at the official rate at any time, for delivery in accordance with the terms of the exchange certificate; however, goods must be shipped within the period of validity of the import license. Most payments for private imports are subject to a remittance tax of 10 per cent on the official rate. As a rule, importers may not pur- chase more than US$50,000 worth of exchange certificates at any single auction. The "multilateral currencies" (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are acquired by bidding for certificates denominated in ACL dollars (dollars of the area of limited convertibility). Successful bidders for ACL dollars may obtain any of the "multilateral curren- cies." Minimum premiums per U.S. dollar, or the equivalent in other currencies, have been established for each category of imports (see sec- tion on Changes during 1955, April 25, below). The lowest and highest premiums for the U.S. dollar (120 days' delivery) and for the ACL dollar, actually obtained at the auctions held in Rio de Janeiro on January 3,1956 and January 2,1956, respectively, were as follows (in cruzeiros per U.S. dollar): Category I Category II Category III Category IV Category V UJS. Dollars Cr$ 66.00-68.10 76.5O-79.10 153.00-153.10 217.20 324.10 ACL Dollars Cr$ 61.40-62.50 77.10-77.20 102.20-104.10 205.30-207.60 291.00 Payments for Invisibles Payments for expenses incidental to trade transactions are effected at the same effective rates and conditions as the corresponding imports; but exchange is not provided for the insurance of goods in Brazil or where import licenses have been issued on a c. & f. basis. All other invisible transactions are effected through the free market and are not 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL subject to the 10 per cent remittance tax. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to export license, with the exception of coffee exports, which are subject to authorization by the Brazilian Coffee Institute. Export licenses are granted without limitation except when (1) the export is contrary to national security interests or to obligations arising from international agreements, (2) payment is to be made in an inconvertible currency the acceptance of which is considered by the Exchange Department to be inconvenient, or (3) an accumulation of stocks to guarantee domestic supplies is advisable. All exports are subject to shipping permits issued by the Exchange Department of the Bank of Brazil. Export proceeds must be surrendered through an authorized bank. Exports are classified in three categories, each of which receives one of two bonuses, according to the currency in which the proceeds are received, as follows (the bonuses are expressed in cruzeiros per U.S. dollar): Category II (coffee and b an an a s8): Cr$18.70 for proceeds in con- vertible currencies and "multilateral currencies" and Cr$17.19 for proceeds in other currencies Category III (raw cotton, cocoa beans, cocoa paste, sawn pine wood, leaf tobacco, piassava, castor seeds, soybeans, raw hides and skins): Cr$24.70 for proceeds in convertible currencies and "multi- lateral currencies" and Cr$22.95 for proceeds in other currencies Category IV (all other exports): Cr$31.70 for proceeds in convertible currencies and "multilateral currencies" and Cr$29.67 for proceeds in other currencies Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from most invisibles are sold through the free market. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign currency notes. 8 Effective April 18, 1956, bananas were classified in Category III. 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Capital Investments. The inflow and outflow of foreign investments are effected at the free market rate. The law assures the same guarantees to foreign capital as to domestic capital. The remittance of earnings on foreign investment depends on the interest the investment repre- sents to the national economy: if classified as of "special" interest and duly registered by the Council of the SUMOC, remittances of earnings may be effected up to the limit of 10 per cent per annum at the "cost of exchange" (i.e., the weighted average of bonuses paid to exporters plus the official exchange ra te ); all other transfers of income are effected at the free market rate. Imports by foreign investors of groups of equipment, or, exceptionally, of equipment intended to complete or improve the capacity of existing groups, may be authorized by the Director of the Foreign Trade Department, provided he has sufficient proof that no payment will be transferred abroad. Financing. In the case of loans, credits, and other financing of unques- tionable interest to the national economy, obtained abroad and reg- istered by the Council of the SUMOC, repayments of principal and transfers of interest not exceeding 8 per cent annually may be made at the "cost of exchange," provided the original capital has been nego- tiated in the official market or applied abroad in the acquisition of equipment licensed expressly for that purpose, or applied abroad for the payment of contractual services approved by the Council of the SUMOC. The Foreign Trade Department may issue licenses to Bra- zilian companies to import groups of equipment financed abroad, under certain conditions (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). 52 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (as at January 1,1956) (cruzeiros per C/jS. dollar) BRAZIL Buying 18.36 (Official Rate) Government and official receipts. Reg- istered loans, credits, and financing of unquestionable interest. 35.55 (Cr$1836 plus Cr$17.19 Bonus) Category II exports against inconverti- ble currencies other than "multilateral currencies." 37.06 (Cr$18.36 plus Cr$18.70 Bonus) Category II exports against convertible currencies and "multilateral currencies." 41.31 (Cr*18.36 plus Crm.95 Bonus) Category III exports against inconver- tible currencies other than "multilateral currencies." 43.06 (Cr$18.S6 plus Cr$2470 Bonus) Category III exports against converti- ble currencies and "multilateral cur- rencies." 48.03 (Cr*18.36 plus Cr*29.67 Bonus) Category IV exports against inconverti- ble currencies other than "multilateral currencies." 50.06 (Cr$18.36 plus Crt31.70 Bonus) Category IV exports against converti- ble currencies and "multilateral cur- rencies." Selling 18.82 (Official Rate) Imports of newsprint. 20.70 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Remittance Tax) Theoretical rate, added to auction bids to obtain effective rates for most im- ports. 43.82 (Cr$18.82 plus Crl25 Surcharge) Some government payments. Govern- ment imports, including wheat. Amorti- zation and interest on registered financ- ing of unquestionable interest up to 8% per year; earnings on registered capital of "special" interest up to 10% per year. Imports of certain publications, coal, and highly essential machinery. Miscellaneous service payments. 33.82-168.82 (Cr$18.82 plus Cr*15-160 Premium) Petroleum products. 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (cruzeiros per C/jS. dollar) Buying 66.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All incoming capital except registered financing of unquestionable interest. Most invisibles, including travel ex- change. Other items not dealt with in official market. Selling 67.,50('Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Amortization and interest on unregis- tered financing; repatriation of invest- ments ; earnings on unregistered invest- ments; earnings and interest on capital not benefiting from other rates. Tourist expenses and other invisibles not paid at more favorable rates. 86.70-88.80 (Crtl8.82 plus 10% Re- mittance Tax plus Cr$66-68.10 Auction Premium) Category I imports. 97.20-99.80 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Re- mittance Tax plus Crtf6.60-79.10 Auction Premium) Category II imports. 173.70-173.80 (Cr*18.82 plus 10% Re- mittance Tax plus Cr$158-15S10 Auction Premium) Category III imports. 237.90 (Cr$18.82 plus 10% Remittance Tax plus Cr$217£0 Auction Premium) Category IV imports. 344.80 (Cr$18J82 plus 10% Remittance Tax plus Cr$3$4.10 Auction Premium) Category V imports. Note: The auction premiums on which the selling rates are based are the low- est and highest bids for the TLS. dollar (120 days' delivery) in Rio de Janeiro on January 3, 1956. Minimum bids for dollars for the five import categories were set by the SUMOC on April 25, 1955 at Cr$25, Cr$30, Cr$35, Cr$40, and Cr$100, respectively. The auction pre- miums have been in excess of these minimums for U.S. dollars, ACL dol- lars, Japanese "dollars," etc. For some currencies, the minimum bids, in prac- tice, establish the effective rates. 54 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Changes during 1955 January 1 The remittance tax on most payments was raised from 8 per cent to 10 per cent. January 17 A resolution of the Council of the SUMOC established new fixed premiums on imports of petroleum products. January 18 Export proceeds were classified in four categories, for each of which two sets of export bonuses were established: one set for convertible cur- rencies and pounds sterling, the other set for all other currencies. January 29 Law No. 2410 was passed extending government controls over foreign transactions to June 30, 1956 and establishing a prohibition on imports of cars valued at over US$3,500. February 5 Coffee export proceeds were granted Category II export bonuses. March 23 The minimum bids for the five import categories were established at Cr$20, Cr$24, Cr$31, Cr$40, and Cr$100, respectively. April 25 The minimum bids for the five import categories were established at Cr$25, Cr$30, Cr$35, Cr$40, and Cr$100, respectively. April 29 The surcharge on payments for banking expenses was set at Cr$30 per US$1 or the equivalent in other currencies. May 4 Cotton was shifted from Category II to Category III of the export classification. 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL May 27 Imports of goods to be used in agriculture (fertilizers and insecti- cides) were reclassified in one category, instead of two. June 25 The following export products were reclassified: cocoa beans, from Category II to Category III; sisal, from Category III to Category IV; and Brazil nuts, from Category II to Category IV. June 30 All government imports were made subject to a surcharge of Cr$25 per US$1. July 2 A new classification of imports was issued. July 5 It was decided that the bonus applicable to export proceeds in con- vertible currencies would be applied to proceeds in deutsche marks. July 27 A number of export products were reclassified, involving the shift of tobacco and sawn pine wood from Category II to Category III and the shift of several minor products to Category IV. August 16 A multilateral agreement with the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Netherlands went into effect, involving the transferability of the currencies of the three countries in settle- ments with Brazil. At the same time, the bonus applicable to export proceeds in convertible currencies was applied to proceeds in Nether- lands guilders. Penicillin was shifted to Category V, and watches to Category II, of the import classification. November 17 It was agreed that Belgium-Luxembourg would be a party to the multilateral agreement with the United Kingdom, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Netherlands. As a result, the bonus applicable to convertible currencies was applied to proceeds in Belgian francs. 56 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Burmese Kyats 4.76190 = US$1. The kyat has a fixed relationship to the pound sterling of K 13.333 = £1. Rates for other currencies are determined on the basis of the kyat-sterling rate and the rates for other currencies in London, maintained within official limits. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Board. Import and export controls are managed by the Ministry of Commerce, but export control powers are also exercised by the State Agricultural Marketing Board, the State Timber Board, and the State Mineral Marketing Board, according to the commodities concerned. The neces- sary registration of exporters and importers is carried out by the Registration Board. Prescription of Currency Burma is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. Payments to other parts of the Sterling Area must be effected in sterling or in the appropriate Sterling Area currency; payments to the dollar area, in sterling through a Canadian or American Account or in Canadian or U.S. dollars; payments to other countries, in sterling through a Transferable Account or in the currency of the country concerned. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all goods are subject to regulation. There are three open general licenses giving general permission to import certain goods from countries other than Canada and American Account countries* and a few items from all countries. All other imports are subject to indi- vidual license. If evidence of importation has been or will be pre- sented, the authorized banks automatically provide appropriate ex- change (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) in payment 1 The American Account countries are listed as Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA for permitted imports. All importers must be registered with the official Registration Board. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to license. In general, pay- ments for items connected with trade are allowed, and payments for other purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Remittances of income arising from investment are permitted freely on application, subject to presentation of evidence that all taxes due in Burma have been paid. Travelers to India may take out not more than Rs 270 in Indian notes and coin, of which not more than Rs 100 may be in currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Burma has a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and aluminum and scraps thereof, foreign manufactures, and com- modities of local origin which it is desired to conserve for local require- ments. No license is required for the export of commodities not specifically included in the lists of items subject to license, but the exporter must obtain the export proceeds in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control authorities. In general, exporters are required to surrender their foreign exchange proceeds to an authorized dealer in foreign exchange. All exporters must be registered with the official Registration Board. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts arising from invisibles must be surrendered. Capital Foreign business enterprises are permitted to repatriate their capital, on clear evidence of having finally wound up business in Burma. Short-term or seasonal capital that has come into Burma with the approval of the exchange control may be repatriated without evidence that the owner has finally wound up business in Burma. Foreign nationals are allowed to repatriate all their personal assets when they retire. Foreign insurance companies operating in Burma are permitted to remit their surplus funds to their home offices. Where payments in favor of nonresidents are not permitted to be transferred abroad, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to blocked accounts. The utilization of balances on blocked accounts is subject to individual permit. 58 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Residents usually are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests are subject to an individual license. Changes during 1955 February 28 Authorized dealers were permitted, without reference to the exchange control, to open letters of credit or to effect remittances covering the import of goods of Transferable Account Area origin to any Transfer- able Account country, and not only to the country of origin, as before. March 7 The utilization of all import licenses, other than those covering imports for industrial or personal use, was restricted to 50 per cent of their value during the period ending September 30, 1955. March 10 Prior approval of the exchange control was required for opening any new import letter of credit and for amending, revising, or extending any letter of credit already opened. March 11 All open general licenses for imports were suspended, pending a review of the import policy. All goods that were covered by open general licenses and were shipped on or after March 11, 1955 would require individual licenses. March 21 The restriction of all import licenses to 50 per cent of their value was withdrawn in respect of goods from the dollar area (see March 7, above). New open general licenses were announced, effective March 11, 1955. Open General License No. I listed 35 commodities, or classes of com- modities, that could be imported freely from all countries other than Mainland China, Canada, and the American Account countries. Open General License No. II permitted imports from any source, except 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Mainland China, of duty-free containers, machinery and parts exported from Burma for repair, and exposed films exported for developing and printing. March 25 The requirement of prior approval of the exchange control for opening, amending, revising, or extending a letter of credit was with- drawn (see March 10, above). April 5 New Open General License No. Ill was introduced, giving general permission for the import of certain mineral oils, opium, animal fats and grease, gums, resins, and rosin from any country except the United States, Canada, the Philippines, most of Central and South America, and Mainland China. Import licenses for industrial raw materials would hereafter be issued only in January and July, for the semiannual periods beginning January 1 and July 1. Licenses for industrial machinery for new installations, expansion of factories, or replacement would be issued at any time. May 17 Authorized dealers were permitted, without reference to the exchange control, to make payments in Sterling Area currency to resident accounts in the Sterling Area for goods of Transferable Account Area origin shipped from Transferable Account countries. June 8 It was announced that foreign investment would be guaranteed against nationalization for an agreed period, normally not less than ten years, that foreign investors would be permitted to remit current earnings and dividends, and that repatriation of investment over a reasonable period would be allowed. July 14 In consequence of payments agreements signed with Mainland China, East Germany, Hungary, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia, all payments on account of imports from these countries would henceforth be made through the State Commercial Bank, and import letters of credit on these countries could be opened only with that bank. 60 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA July 20 All foreign exchange held or owned by persons residing in Burma had to be declared and surrendered to an authorized dealer within one month (the previous regulation required the surrender of U.S. dollars only). August 1 All persons entering or leaving Burma were required to declare on a prescribed form all foreign exchange in their possession, and temporary visitors to Burma could sell their foreign exchange to any local author- ized dealer or money-changer only on presentation of the relevant declaration form. August 18 Certain exemptions from the requirement to surrender foreign exchange were given in the case of foreigners and foreign companies. September 20 In future, a permit from the Exchange Control Office of the Union Bank of Burma would be required to open a letter of credit, or to alter, amend, or revise letters of credit already opened, for the import of goods coming under Open General Licenses Nos. I, II, and III. Such a permit would also be required for imports on a cash basis of goods coming under these open general licenses. October The open general licenses were made applicable to imports from Mainland China. 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rate System The par value is Ceylon Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. The exchange rate system is uniform, the rate for the U.S. dollar being based on the fixed sterling-Ceylon rupee rates and the sterling-U.S. dollar rates in London, maintained between official limits. The market rate as at December 31, 1955 was Cey Rs 4.743,4 buying, Cey Rs 4.771/4 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exchange Control Depart- ment of the Central Bank of Ceylon. All transactions in foreign exchange in Ceylon must be made through authorized dealers, which are banks authorized to transact business in specified currencies in accordance with the exchange control regulations prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Remittances may also be made through post offices on permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licensing is handled by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Prescription of Currency The regulations prescribing the currencies to be received from abroad in payment for exports and invisible transactions and those to be used for outgoing payments are similar to those used by the United Kingdom and other Sterling Area countries. In general, the regulations govern- ing payments provide that beneficiaries resident in the Sterling Area are to be paid in any currency of the Sterling Area; beneficiaries resi- dent outside the Sterling Area are to be paid (1) in sterling or in rupees to the credit of a nonresident account related to Canada, the American Account Area, or the Transferable Account Area, according to the country of origin of the goods, or (2) in some cases, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods. Receipts from foreign transactions, in general, may be in local currency, or from appropriate nonresident sterling accounts in the United Kingdom, or in dollars from Canada or an American Account country, or in any specified currency from a Transferable Account country (see section on Non- resident Accounts and footnote 4 in the survey on the United King- dom ). Transactions involving deviation from the general regulations require the prior approval of the Controller of Exchange. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Nonresident Accounts The regulations governing nonresident accounts differentiate between the accounts of banks and of persons and firms abroad. Although there are no specific provisions to enable the individual nonresident to obtain conversion into his own currency of amounts credited to his account, transfers for banks and correspondents from rupee accounts in Ceylon to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed. Imports and Import Payment* With the exception of a few items, such as firearms for use by the armed forces, imports of goods are subject to regulation. However, many commodities are governed by open general licenses and may be imported freely without individual licenses. Open General License No. 1 authorizes the import of a wide range of commodities from all sources except the dollar a rea* and certain other countries.2 Open General License No. 2 lists items that may be imported from the dollar area. Open General License No. 3 permits the import of a few items from all sources except Australia and certain other countries.2 Open General License No. 4 applies to certain goods which may be imported from all sources except the dollar area and certain other countries.3 Open General License No. 5 permits the import of fish from the Maldive Islands. In addition, general import licenses are issued to registered Ceylon importers, enabling them to import specified com- modities without quantitative restriction from those countries excluded from the open general license facilities. All other items require indi- vidual import licenses, and policy concerning their issue is announced annually. No licenses are issued for some products grown or manu- factured locally. Some essential items, such as sugar, flour, and rice, are imported only on government account. An authorized dealer may approve an application for the remittance of foreign exchange or for the transfer of rupees to a nonresident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to furnish, evi- 1 In the Ceylon regulations, the dollar area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colom- bia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 2 These countries are Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Czecho- slovakia, Estonia, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Japan, Latvia, Lithu- ania, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 3 These countries are those in footnote 2, together with Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and Turkey. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON dence of importation and cost of goods, together with a valid importer's and exchange control copy of the import license. When the goods are under open general license, the applicant must have made a declaration to that effect on the application. The currency and method of payment must normally be in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange license. Author- ized dealers may sell foreign exchange in accordance with a detailed set of regulations. Payments for freight and other services in connec- tion with the international transport of goods are allowed. Payments for international travel fares are permitted, provided certain conditions are met. Payments for business travel are also allowed, on application. The allocation of exchange for tourist travel is subject to basic rations, which vary according to the country to be visited; however, no basic ration is allocated for tourist travel to the dollar area. Other remit- tances of a personal nature are granted for reasonable requirements for education, travel, health, or family reasons. Business remittances to any country normally are approved, particularly when they are of a recurring or contractual nature, e.g., insurance premiums. Emigrants (Ceylon nationals) are permitted to transfer their entire assets if emigrating to a Sterling Area country or to Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, but only up to certain limits if emigrating to any other non- Sterling Area country. Remittances of profits and dividends of non- residents are permitted freely. Travelers may export foreign exchange declared at the time of entry. The export of currency notes is limited to Cey Rs 50 per person per six months. Exports and Export Proceeds For purposes of exchange control, licenses issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all exports; in addition, export licenses issued by the Controller of Exports are required for all but a few commodities. Exports of certain manufactured goods and re-exports of foreign manufactured articles are allowed only under special permit. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. An exchange control export license is not issued unless the exporter undertakes to recover payment for the full value of the goods and to deliver the export proceeds to an authorized dealer, usually within six months from the date of shipment, and in certain cases within 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON shorter periods, depending on the destination of the goods. The cur- rencies in which payment for exports to different countries or monetary areas must be received are stipulated in the exchange control regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles The surrender at official rates of incoming foreign exchange from invisibles is required. Such proceeds have to be received in specified currencies, following the prescription of currency requirements appli- cable to export proceeds. Travelers are not restricted in the amounts of foreign funds they may carry into Ceylon in the form of travel credit instruments, but they are obliged to declare, upon entering, their holdings of currency notes and coin. The import of sterling notes in excess of £10 is allowed only with the permission of the Controller of Exchange, and the import of Indian and Pakistan currency notes, as well as of Ceylon notes, is restricted to a maximum of Rs 100, of which Pakistan notes should not exceed Rs 50. No restriction on the import of other currency notes and coin is in force. Capital Certain capital movements between Ceylon and the rest of the Sterling Area are permitted freely, namely, the voluntary repatriation of investments of persons resident in the rest of the Sterling Area, the transfer of savings by persons temporarily resident in Ceylon and returning to another Sterling Area country for permanent residence, and the transfer to Ceylon of capital held in the rest of the Sterling Area by Ceylon nationals. Also, transfers of capital to Ceylon are permitted for direct investment in Ceylon businesses or for the estab- lishment of branches or agencies of concerns resident in the United Kingdom or in the rest of the Sterling Area, if the authorities are satis- fied that such transfers are for desirable trade and commercial purposes. Different regulations cover capital movements between Ceylon and non-Sterling Area countries. Generally, inward transfers for invest- ment in approved projects are permitted freely. Remittances of a capital nature—e.g., to purchase securities, properties, annuities, etc., abroad—are restricted. Securities owned by residents and on which the principal, interest, or dividends are payable (or the holder has an option to require payment of the principal, interest, or dividends) in either U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars have to be registered with the 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Controller of Exchange, and no person is allowed, except with the per- mission of the Minister of Finance, to sell or transfer such securities. Since the end of 1949, capital invested in Ceylon by a non-Sterling Area resident may be repatriated at his request up to the amount of the original investment, provided the investment had received prior approval. Change* during 1955 January 6 The basic ration for travel to India, Pakistan, Burma, Malaya, Iraq, Indonesia, Iran, and Saudi Arabia was extended for a further period of two years commencing January 1, 1955. May 1 The exchange control procedure applied to exports from Ceylon to non-dollar, non-sterling countries, paid for through the United King- dom, was simplified. May 26 Payment for exports from Ceylon to a Transferable Account country could be accepted in any specified currency. July 1 Imports from the dollar area were liberalized by a reduction in the number of prohibited items, and the monetary ceilings on certain imports from the dollar area were abolished. August 16 The basic ration for travel to Sterling Area countries other than India, Pakistan, Burma, Malaya, and Iraq and to a number of other countries outside the dollar area was extended for a period of four years beginning September 1, 1955. August 30 The Italian lira was included in the specified currencies. 66 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Chilean Pesos 110 = US$1. However, this rate applies only to a few outstanding commitments. A banking rate of Chil$203 per US$1 applies to government imports and payments and to some private imports. A "free" banking rate with a ceiling correspond- ing to Chil$300 per US$1 applies to most imports and exports of goods and services. Incoming and outgoing invisibles not directly related to trade, private capital transactions, and some minor specified trans- actions are effected through the free brokers' market. A "special area" fluctuating rate, generally based on the brokers' market rate of the preceding week, applies to some minor exports and a few imports. Other effective rates for the proceeds of some minor exports result from the surrender of such proceeds at combinations of the Chil$300 rate and the "special area" fluctuating rate. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the National Foreign Trade Council, an autonomous public agency. The Council grants export and import licenses, and it must be consulted by the banks before they may sell exchange to licensed importers. All exchange transactions are carried out through the Central Bank of Chile or the authorized banks, except those made at the "special area" fluctuating rate, which is set by the Amortization Bank (a government institution), and at the fluctuating free brokers' rate (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Prescription of Currency Payments for transactions with Argentina, Belgium-Luxembourg, Brazil, Ecuador, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia must be made according to the method and in the currency established in the regula- tions that give effect to the terms of the payments and compensation agreements with these countries. This applies also to the proceeds re- ceived under special arrangements entered into by the Nitrate and Iodine Sales Corporation for exports of nitrates and iodine to Belgium, 1 In view of the changes which took place at the beginning of January 1956, this survey relates to the position as at January 24, 1956. Changes in the exchange system which became effective April 20, 1956 are outlined in the note at the end of this survey. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and Sweden. The proceeds of exports of copper and iron must be received in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license. Imports of certain luxury goods and goods of a type produced domestically are prohibited. Licenses are granted to established importers up to the limit of their individual quotas, which are fixed on the basis of an exchange budget prepared by the National Foreign Trade Council according to the availability of the various types of exchange and, particularly, on the basis of trade and payments agreements. Government imports and some private imports are paid for at the rate of Chil$200 per US$1. Most other imports are paid for at the rate of Chil$303 per US$1. For permitted imports of specified less essential goods, import licenses are granted at the "special area" fluctuating rate on the basis of the exchange receipts from exports of wines, products of medium-sized mines, and other specified products. Payments for imports must be approved by the National Foreign Trade Council. Payments for import transactions with payments agreement countries must be made in the currencies and according to the methods laid down in the exchange control regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad at the "free" banking rate in respect of invisibles require licenses; minor payments may be made through the free brokers' market. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine, exports require licenses. The export of certain specified commodities is pro- hibited by the Government. For exports of agricultural products, the Minister of Economy has issued specific regulations that must be fol- lowed by the National Foreign Trade Council, which grants the export licenses. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the exchange rate established for each transaction. Foreign exchange derived from exports of nitrates up to US$0.50 per ton must be surrendered at a rate of Chil$19.37 per US$1. Exchange derived from exports of copper, nitrates, iodine, and iron by foreign-owned mining companies must be surrendered up to an amount equivalent to the local cost of production. All other exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE proceeds from exports must be surrendered entirely. The proceeds of certain exports are surrendered either wholly or in part at the "special area" fluctuating rate. Exports of the fishing industry are surrendered entirely at the free brokers' rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from most invisibles are dealt with at the Chil$300 rate, while others are dealt with at the "special area" fluctuating rate. Exchange receipts from tourism and some other invisibles may be sold in the free brokers' market. Capital Large mining companies (copper, iron, nitrates, and iodine) may freely remit interest, dividends, and amortization payments on invested capital up to the amount of their exchange receipts that they are not required to surrender or use to pay local taxes. Under the terms of a decree of November 10, 1953 (amended Febru- ary 2, 1954), foreign capital brought into Chile in the form of foreign exchange, raw materials, or equipment, when invested in approved enterprises, is accorded the following guarantees and exemptions: (1) repatriation of capital after 5 years in annual quotas not exceeding 20 per cent per annum of the value of the investment; (2) transfer abroad of earnings on the investment, for a period of at least 10 years, and possibly up to 20 years; (3) exemption from all customs duties and charges on capital imported in the form of equipment and machinery; (4) a guarantee that all applicable taxes will not be changed for at least 10 years; (5) freedom for 10 years or more from price-fixing regulations and from controls affecting industries in which the investments are made; (6) the right to reassessment of the capital for tax purposes in accordance with fluctuations in the rate of exchange from year to year. Earnings on such capital, if reinvested in Chile, are accorded the rights and exemptions indicated under (2) and (6), above. Capital is granted favorable treatment when invested in export industries which can com- pete on the international market without government assistance, in pro- duction for the domestic market of goods which at present must be imported, also without government assistance, or in industries using a proportion (at least 80 per cent) of national raw materials for the production of goods for the domestic market at reduced cost to the consumer. The Foreign Investment Commission supervises capital imports. 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange operations related to foreign capital investments covered by the law of November 10,1953 have to be effected through the bank- ing system, and the amount of foreign exchange needed for the remit- tances from these investments is allocated annually in the exchange budget. For other investments, application must be made for a license to transfer earnings or to repatriate capital at the official rates, or trans- fer may be made at the fluctuating free brokers' rate. Transfers of capital by residents into and out of Chile are subject to individual license. Table of Exchange Rates (as at January 24,1956) (pesos per C/jS». dollar) Buying Selling 19.37 Sales of exchange from nitrate exports up to US$0.50 per ton. 110.00 203.00 (Banking Rate) Government imports and payments. Im- ports of raw sugar, kerosene, and some antibiotics. 300.00 ("Free" Banking Rate) Most exports and invisibles. 303.00 ("Free" Banking Rate) Most imports and invisibles. 529.00 (FluctuatingFreeBrokers'Rate) Other invisibles, including travel ex- penses. Private capital. 583.00 ("Special Area" Rate) * Specified less essential imports. Some invisibles. Fluctuating 519.00 (Fluctuating Free Brokers'Rate) Other invisibles, including travel re- ceipts. Exports of fish and fish products. Private capital. 573.00 ("Special Area" Fluctuating Rate) 2 Exports of wine and crystallized nitrate. Percentages of some other exports, e.g., iron ore from small mining companies. Some invisibles. Note: Other effective buying rates re- sult from a mixing arrangement applied to certain export proceeds, all or part of which receive the benefit of the "special area" fluctuating rate, with the balance at the "free" banking rate. 2 This rate is essentially the brokers* rate, but generally it is moved only once a week and is based on the average brokers' market quotation of the previous week. 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Changes during 1955 February 8 The tax of Chil$15 per US$1 on import licenses for less essential items was extended to December 31,1955. April 30 An effective exchange rate for wine exports was established. May 4 A law establishing new treatment for the large foreign copper com- panies was signed, as a result of which the rate of Chil$200 per US$1 was made applicable to exchange surrendered by these companies to cover local expenses. May 19 Barter operations involving exports of sulphur and imports of vehicles from the Federal Republic of Germany, Switzerland, and the United States were approved. June 22 A "fluctuating" exchange rate with a ceiling at Chil$300 per US$1 was established for marginal exports and a limited list of imports ("exceptional area"). No exchange license was required to make pay- ment for these imports. June 30 A list of imports that could be paid for with exchange derived from wine exports was issued. July 15 A number of items were shifted to the lists of imports and exports to be transacted at the Chil$300 rate. September 7 Exchange licensing for payments for "exceptional area" imports was established. 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE September 15 A number of export products and many import items were shifted to the Chil$300 rate. September 16 A new list of prohibited imports was issued, which included approxi- mately the same number of items as the existing list. Some items were removed from the existing list and others were added to it. October It was established that exchange surrendered by the large foreign copper companies would be converted at the Chil$300 rate. November A new fluctuating rate, based on the free brokers' rate but with a ceiling at Chil$650 per US$1, was established for exports of wine and certain minor items and certain imports. A mixing arrangement involv- ing surrender of part of the exchange proceeds at this rate and part at the Chil$300 rate was established for a few export products. December 31 The tax of Chil$15 per US$1 on import licenses for less essential items expired. Note: On April 20, 1956, substantial changes took place in the ex- change system of Chile. Import licensing was abolished and imports of listed goods were permitted without limitation, subject to advance deposits ranging from 5 per cent to 200 per cent. The previously existing multiple exchange rate structure was replaced by a free fluctuating exchange market for all commodity transactions, while the free brokers' market continued to be applicable to private capital transactions and some invisibles. 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Exchange Rate System There is no par value for the New Taiwan Dollar. A multiple exchange rate system arises from the use of negotiable exchange cer- tificates or of an exchange certificate rate for all receipts and payments of exchange. Various effective rates result from the different "mixing" arrangements for export proceeds, and from the coexistence of a fixed price for exchange certificates for transactions by the Government, specified public enterprises, end-users, and importers of industrial raw materials, and a fluctuating price for certificates related to transac- tions by private enterprises. A defense tax of 20 per cent is levied on all import payments and on payments for invisibles. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The Foreign Exchange and Trade Control Commission is the control authority on the policy level. Its decisions are implemented by the Bank of Taiwan, through which all sales and purchases of foreign exchange must be effected. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, or, in a few cases, Malayan dollars or other foreign currencies as approved by the exchange control authorities. There are no legal obligations prescribing the channel of payment to persons abroad (except for Japan and France, trade with which is conducted through special settlement accounts under the terms of agreements). Payments must be made in U.S. dollars or pounds sterling, according to the currency area involved, and hard currency generally is not provided for payments to soft currency countries where the Bank of Taiwan has balances in those currencies. Nonresident Accounts The exchange control system does not d ifferen t ia te between the accounts of residents and those of nonresidents. Imports and Import Payments All imports require individual import licenses, which are issued to registered importers under a two-month import allocation system. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Imports of certain specified luxuries are prohibited, and imports of specified commodities which may be produced locally or of which there are sufficient stocks are temporarily suspended. Registered im- porters are classified as traders, industrial end-users, and direct end- users. Import allocations for traders are based on a general commodity budget, for industrial end-users on their production needs, and for direct end-users on their needs of specified goods. When the import license is granted, the holder is automatically entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange from the Bank of Taiwan. Payments for imports made by government agencies, specified public enterprises, end-users, or importers of industrial raw materials are made at a fixed rate of NT$24.78 per US$1; payments for all other imports are made at a fluctuating rate of exchange (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for family maintenance are restricted by a monthly quota fixed by the authorities. For such trade items as freight and insurance, permission to effect payment is determined by the approval to import the related commodities. Applicants for ex- change for invisibles must apply to the Remittance Department of the Foreign Exchange and Trade Control Commission, which passes its recommendations to the Commission for final decision. In general, reasonable amounts of foreign exchange are granted for transfers of reinsurance premiums and for travel other than for pleasure. All pay- ments for invisibles are made at the fixed rate of NT$24.78 per US$1. Travelers leaving Taiwan may take with them no more than US$200 in foreign currency and no more than NT$500 in Taiwan currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are granted to exporters after the Bank of Taiwan has examined and verified the amount of foreign exchange involved in the export. All export proceeds must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, or, in a few cases, Malayan dollars or other foreign currencies approved by the exchange control authorities. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the Bank of Taiwan rate of NT$15.55 per US$1. In addition, exchange certificates are issued equivalent to 80 per cent (50 per cent in the case of banana exports to Japan and 74 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) salt exports) of the value of the proceeds. These foreign exchange certificates are valid for three months. They are negotiable, with the exception of those representing sugar, rice, and salt export proceeds, which are exchanged at a fixed price of NT$6 per US$1. Free market rates for certificates have fluctuated from NT$7 to NT$16 per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Taiwan. Receipts by government agencies and specified public enter- prises are converted at an effective rate of NT$21.55 per US$1; receipts by private individuals may be converted at a fixed rate of NT$24.68 per US$1, or at the Bank of Taiwan rate of NT$15.55 plus an equiva- lent amount of the proceeds in exchange certificates. Diplomatic and foreign military personnel are granted a preferential rate of NT$36 per US$1 for receipts surrendered by them. Travelers entering Taiwan may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it. The import of domestic currency is limited to NT$500 per traveler. Capital Capital payments due to nonresidents normally are not permitted, and the repatriation of foreign capital is allowed only in special circum- stances. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, new foreign investments if approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) free transfer of profits in the original currency of the investment at a yearly rate not exceeding 15 per cent of the value of investment; (2) repatriation of capital (including reinvested earn- ings) two years after the investment has been made at a yearly rate not exceeding 15 per cent of the total investment; (3) immunity from expropriation during ten years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 50 per cent of the total investment. New capital investments abroad by residents are prohibited. Resi- dents are permitted to hold foreign exchange representing capital receipts in an account in foreign currency and may dispose of this exchange by surrendering it to the Bank of Taiwan for local currency at NT$15.55 plus the exchange certificate, or for local currency at NT$24.68 per US$1. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (new Taiwan dollars per L/jS. dollar) Buying 18.55 (NTU635 plus 60% of Fixed Value of Exchange Certificate) All salt exports by government agencies and specified public enterprises. 20.35 (NT$16£5 plus 80% of Fixed Value of Exchange Certificate) All exports (except bananas to Japan and salt) by government agencies and specified public enterprises. 21.05 (NT&1535 plus 60% of Fluctu- ating Value of Exchange Cer- tificate) Banana exports to Japan by private traders. 21.55 (NT$15.65 plus Fixed Value of Exchange Certificate) Receipts by government agencies and specified public enterprises. 24.35 (NTU6J56 plus 80% of Fluctu- ating Value of Exchange Cer- tificate) All exports (except bananas to Japan and salt) by individuals or firms other than above. 24.68 (NT$16.66 plus Equivalent of NT$S.1S Defense Tax plus Fixed Value of Exchange Cer- tificate) Private receipts if recipient chooses to receive payment in local currency of equivalent value of exchange certifi- cates. 26.55 (NTtld.66 plus Fluctuating Value of Exchange Certificate) Private receipts if recipient chooses to receive exchange certificates. 36.00 (Diplomatic Rate) Receipts sold by foreign diplomatic and military personnel. Selling 24.78 (NTU6.66 plus NTSS.1S Defense Tax plus Fixed Value of Ex- change Certificate) All imports and remittances by govern- ment agencies, specified public enter- prises, and certain others. All invisibles. 29.78 (NTU5.65 plus NTtS.lS Defense Tax plus Fluctuating Value of Exchange Certificate) All other imports. Note: Although a fixed price of NT$6 per US$1 was established for the foreign exchange certificates, these certificates are also traded at rates ranging from NT$7 to NTS16 per US$1. The certificate rate in the market as at December 31, 1955 was NT$11 per US$1. 76 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) Changes during 1955 March 1 A system of negotiable exchange certificates was introduced. The Bank of Taiwan rates continued to be applied to government exports and imports in connection with approved industrial and development projects; specified exports, such as sugar, rice, and salt; specified imports, such as wheat, soybeans, cotton, chemical fertilizers, and crude oil; and inward and outward remittances in connection with these exports and imports and with government expenditures. All other exports and imports by public enterprises and by commercial firms, and other inward and outward remittances, were granted, or required, exchange certificates in addition to the exchange settlement at the Bank of Taiwan rates. The amount of exchange certificates issued to exporters as a percentage of export proceeds varied according to the category of goods exported. Exchange proceeds from invisible trans- actions received the full benefit of the exchange certificate rate; the rate also applied in full to sales of exchange to make outward remit- .tances, including payments for those imports which required exchange certificates. The Bank of Taiwan was authorized to buy and sell exchange certificates at a fixed value. The buying rate announced on March 1,1955 was NT$21.55 per US$1 (the fixed value of the exchange certificate, NT$6.00 per US$1, plus the Bank of Taiwan rate, NT$15.55 per US$1). Commercial banks were authorized to sell exchange cer- tificates on behalf of certificate holders at free market rates, which have fluctuated between NT$7 and NT$16 per US$1. Travelers could bring in or take out of Taiwan local currency not in excess of NT$500. Previously, no limits were imposed on the amount of local currency that could be taken out, and the amount that could be brought in was limited to NT$1,000. July 25 Imports of soybeans and cotton were settled at an exchange rate of NT$24.78 per US$1, instead of the previous rate of NT$18.78 per US$1. September 1 Crude oil imports, whether for military or civilian use, were settled at the NT$24.78 rate; previously, crude oil imports by the military were settled at NT$15.65 per US$1 and those by the civilian sector at NT$18.78 per US$1. . 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHINA (Taiwan) September 10 The exchange rate structure was revised, eliminating transactions at only the Bank of Taiwan rate. Nearly all exchange transactions now took place at an effective foreign certificate rate, either fixed or fluctu- ating. Exchange transactions of government agencies and specified public enterprises took place at a rate based on a fixed exchange cer- tificate price, and all other transactions at a rate based on a fluctuating exchange certificate price. All exports of government agencies and specified public enterprises and exports of sugar, rice, and petroleum products were granted exchange certificates equivalent to 80 per cent of the export proceeds; exports of salt were granted exchange certifi- cates equivalent to 60 per cent of the proceeds. Previously, these exports were effected at the Bank of Taiwan rate without certificates. A special rate of NT$34 per US$1 was introduced for receipts sold by diplomatic and foreign military personnel. (Since December 1955, this rate has been NT$36 per US$1.) 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Colombian Pesos 1.94998 = US$1. The official rates are Ps$2.50 buying, Ps$2.51 selling, per US$1. Taxes of 3 or 6 per cent on noncommercial payments yield two additional selling rates. A fluctuating free market rate applies to all imports not classified in the Preferential Group and Group I, to exports of most minor products and bananas, and to most invisibles. Multiple rates result from the existence of this free exchange market, the application of exchange taxes, and a mixing arrangement for freight charges. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control To make imports from, exports to, or exchange payments to, foreign countries, prior application for the registration of the transaction must be made at the Exchange Registration Office, which is dependent on the Bank of the Republic. Purchases and sales of official exchange may be made either through the Bank of the Republic or through the com- mercial banks, which act as authorized agents of the Bank of the Republic. Purchases and sales of free market exchange may be made by anyone, including the commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to international transactions are nor- mally effected in U.S. dollars. Payments to and receipts from Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, Italy, Spain, and Uruguay must be effected through a clearing account in accordance with the provisions of the related bilateral payments agreement. Under the agreements with Denmark, Italy, and Uruguay, goods originating in third countries and purchased in an agreement country may be settled through the agreement account by mutual consent of the agreement partners. There is also a com- mercial compensation agreement with the Federal Republic of Ger- many, by which payments to that country are made in U.S. dollars and not in accounting dollars. Nonresident Accounts Commercial banks are authorized to debit and/or credit the accounts of nonresidents without special permission from the Exchange Registra- tion Office, which has reserved the right to suspend such authorization 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA whenever it deems necessary. The balances on these accounts may be used freely, but when applied to imports, payments for services, repatriation of registered capital, or other transactions entitled to foreign exchange at the official rate, the requirements established for each individual case must be fulfilled. Imports and Import Payments All imports require prior application for registration. If the applica- tion meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the applica- tion form, i.e., registration is granted. Import commodities are classified in six groups, Preferential, I, II Special, II, III, and IV, plus a list of prohibited items. To the six groups are applied stamp taxes of 3,10, 10, 30, 80, or 100 per cent, respectively, calculated on the basis of the official buying rate and collected in advance on each import application. In addition, a cash deposit of, respectively, 20, 24, 24, 30, 40, or 60 per cent of the peso value of the import, also calculated on the official buying rate, has to be paid as a prerequisite to import registration; this deposit is returned when the arrival of the goods in Colombia has been confirmed.1 Payments for imports in the Preferential Group and Group I also require prior exchange registration, which is granted in f.o.b. terms upon submission of the import registration and evidence that the goods have entered Colombia. Payments for imports classified in the Preferential Group and Group I are effected at the Ps$2.51 rate. Payments for these imports from any country are authorized only if exchange derived from exports to the country in question is available. Exceptions to this rule are made for specified raw materials and natural products. These payments must be made in the appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for imports classified in Groups II Special, II, III, and IV are effected through the free market, usually in UJ3. dollars. Imports of potatoes, wheat, spelt, maslin, and flours made thereof, rice, barley, corn, wheat groats, and some legumes and vegetables may be made only'by the Corporation for the Protection of Agricultural Products. Payments for Invisibles Official exchange is granted only for the following invisibles: national government services; payments of installments of principal and interest 1 Effective April 5, 1956, these deposits were increased to 40, 50, 50, 60, 80, and 100 per cent, respectively (Decree No. 732). 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA on the official external medium- and long-term debt; repatriation of registered foreign capital and dividends therefrom; payments of install- ments of principal and interest on external medium- and long-term debts owed by semiofficial or private entities registered before October 21, 1955; remittances for students engaging in postgraduate studies or taking special courses not available in Colombia and for clergymen and members of religious groups going abroad to take courses, within the limit of US$150 per month; remittances for medical patients up to US$1,500; consular fees and forwarding agents' com- missions related to imports in the Preferential Group or Group I; and 50 per cent of freight charges to Colombian ports for Preferential and Group I imports. Payments and remittances for these items require prior registration. Exchange taxes of 3 or 6 per cent apply to these payments (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Payments for all other invisible transactions must be made through the free market and are not subject to prior registration. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require prior application for registration. If the applica- tion meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the applica- tion form, i.e., registration is granted. Exchange proceeds from exports of coffee, raw cattle hides, petroleum, and platinum must be surrendered at the official rate, as follows: within ten days for foreign exchange derived from coffee exports or other exports payable by letter of credit upon presentation of the bill of lading; within six months for foreign exchange from shipments on consignment or from exports other than coffee not reimbursable by credit payable upon presentation of the bill of lading. Minimum surrender prices are established for coffee exports. Exchange proceeds from all other exports are negotiated in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are negotiated in the free market, with the exception of registered capital and other receipts that create a future charge on the official exchange holdings. Capital Imports of foreign capital in the form of foreign currency or indus- trial, farming, or mining machinery and equipment (provided they are classified in the Preferential Group or Group I) can be given registra- tion which carries with it the right to repatriate the capital and profits 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA thereon at the official rate plus tax. Such capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered at the Ps$2.50 rate. The same facilities apply to foreign cash credits granted to persons domiciled in Colombia, provided the time for reimbursement of the credits is not less than one year, but the remittance of interest on such credits at the official rate is limited to 8 per cent per year; interest over 8 per cent is not considered as earnings on foreign capital entitled to the official exchange rate. Transfers of capital abroad require prior approval, which is granted automatically if the capital investment has been properly registered. Transfers of registered capital are subject to a 3 per cent stamp tax. Transfers of unregistered capital and transfers of capital by residents are effected at the free market rate. 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (pesos per UJS. dollar) Buying Selling 2.50 (Official Rate) Exchange proceeds from exports of cof- fee, raw hides, petroleum, and plati- num. Investments for the development of the petroleum industry. Registered capital and registered loans. 4.15 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All other exports. Most invisibles. Un- registered capital. 2.51 (Official Rate) Official payments, including some gov- ernment imports.2 Imports of "primary needs" included in the Preferential Group and Group I.3 Certain invisi- bles, e.g., students' essential expenses up to certain limits. 2.585 (Ps$%.51 plus Stamp Tax of 3% at PsWJO) Registered semiofficial or private for- eign debts, medium- or long-term. Most commercial invisibles. Repatriation of registered capital and repayment of registered loans. 2.66 (PMJS1 plus Stamp Tax of 8% and Resident Tax of 3%, both at Pst2£0) Payments for medical treatment abroad, up to a certain amount and in specified circumstances. 4.17 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Imports in Groups II Special, II, III, and IV.4 All other trade and nontrade payments. Note: An additional effective selling rate arises from the use of the official rate for 50 per cent of freight charges on Preferential and Group I imports, the balance being obtained in the free market. 2 As a general rule, official payments and imports are subject to stamp taxes, but there are certain exceptions, and the Government may make others as it sees fit in the case of imports essential for national defense, maintenance of public order, supply of "primary needs," or construction of development works in the national interest. 8 These imports are subject to a stamp tax of 3 per cent for the Preferential Group and 10 per cent for Group I, which is collected on the value in Colombian currency of each registration application, calculated at the rate of Ps$2.50. 4 These imports are subject to stamp taxes of 10, 30, 80, and 100 per cent for Groups II Special, II, III, and IV, respectively, which are collected on the value in Colombian currency of each registration application, calculated at the rate of Ps$2.50. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Changes during 1955 February 8 The official surrender price for coffee exports was reduced from US$110 to US$95 per bag (70 kilograms). February 16 The following changes were introduced in the exchange system: 1. The differential exchange rate for coffee export proceeds was abolished and the Ps$2.50 rate was applied to 100 per cent of such proceeds (Decree No. 333). 2. Imports were reclassified and made subject to stamp taxes on import registrations, as follows (Decree No. 331): Preferential (raw materials for essential industries), 3 per cent Group I (other raw materials and essential products), 10 per cent Group II (essential durable and semidurable goods), 30 per cent Group III (less essential goods, or essential goods also produced in Colombia), 80 per cent Group IV (specified nonessential goods importable with "export vouchers"), 100 per cent (of which up to 60 per cent could be paid in "export vouchers") Prohibited (luxury) goods 3. Exchange at the official rate would no longer be granted for travel (Decree No. 335). 4. Exchange allocations for students abroad were reduced from US$250 or US$150 to US$150 or US$100 per month, according to the type of study (Decree No. 335). Students were, however, given the right to US$50 for traveling expenses on the outgoing journey and a like amount for the return trip. 5. Imports of official and semiofficial entities exceeding Ps$50,000 were put on a restrictive basis. February 18 The cash deposit required for each import group as a prerequisite to import registration was established as follows: Preferential Group, 20 84 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA per cent of the peso value at the official buying rate; Group I, 24 per cent; Group II, 30 per cent; Group III, 40 per cent; Group IV, 60 per cent. March 24 The prerequisite of a customs manifest was made obligatory for all import payments, a bank guarantee for eventual presentation of the manifest being no longer acceptable. April 14 Remittances abroad arising from passenger fares collected in Colom- bia by airline and steamship companies were made subject to a 40 per cent tax. These companies, in turn, were granted export vouchers for exchange they surrendered to the authorities. May 4 It was decreed (Decree No. 1259) that payments for imports from any country would be authorized only if exchange derived f rom exports to the country in question were available. May 13 A broad free market system was introduced on the same terms as were in effect for the proceeds of gold exports, and the system of export vouchers was terminated. Imports in Groups II, III, and IV and most nontrade transactions, which had formerly been subject to the official rate, were shifted to the new free market. The provisions of Decree No. 1259 (see May 4, above) would not apply to this market. Also, the Office of Import Registration was given the power to authorize imports of raw materials, natural products, or capital goods essential to the maintenance or development of industry, without regard to the pro- visions of Decree No. 1259. The Office was also authorized to require that specified goods could be imported only when purchased directly from the factories concerned. June 2 A list of raw materials and natural products not subject to the pro- visions of Decree No. 1259 was issued (Resolution No. 27). 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA June 10 The list of products exempt from the provisions of Decree No. 1259 was amended and enlarged (Resolution No. 28). June 14 A list was drawn up of merchandise that could be imported only if purchased directly from factories, from the sole distributor, or through authorized shippers (Resolution No. 29). July 6 A prior license from the Ministries of Agriculture and Development was prescribed for the export of agricultural commodities other than coffee, bananas, and hides. July 12 A few commodities were added to the list of those exempt from the provisions of Decree No. 1259 (Resolution No. 34). July 13 New regulations authorized transfers to pay for medical treatment abroad. July 15 Regulations were issued regarding the procedure to be followed for private barter operations. Transactions involving amounts of less than US$250,000 would not be authorized. July 22 It was established that remittances through the official market for students' expenses abroad would no longer be allowed, except for stu- dents engaging in postgraduate studies or taking special courses not available in Colombia and clergymen and members of religious groups going abroad to take courses. August 23 The classification of 47 import items was changed; this included changes in both directions among the import groups. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA October 21 A number of import items, including capital goods and machinery, were shifted to the free market (Group II). Service payments financed in the official market were limited to specific items; all other items were to be transacted through the free market. Exchange proceeds from banana exports and claims on foreign insurance companies were also transferred to the free market. November 10 The amount of freight charges which had to be paid through the free market was reduced from 100 per cent to 50 per cent. The import items that were transferred to the free market on October 21 would constitute a new import group (Group II Special), to which the same stamp tax and prior deposit would apply as for Group I, i.e., 10 per cent and 24 per cent, respectively. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Rate System The par value is Costa Rican Colones 5.615 = US$1. A multiple rate system arises from the coexistence of an official and a free market. The official rates are 0 5.60 for exports, $ 5.67 for essential imports, per US$1. The selling rate in the free market, covering all other imports and almost all invisibles, has been maintained at $ 6.65 per US$1 since July 23, 1952. The use of this market for part of the proceeds of some exports results in an effective rate of 0 6.27 (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica, and all official market transactions must be licensed by the Bank, which processes applications for payments in chronological order. Purchases and sales of official market exchange are conducted through the Central Bank or through authorized banks. Free market transactions are conducted through the commercial banks and private dealers, independently of the Central Bank, but the Central Bank has the right to conduct operations in the free market with the object of trying to regulate the rate of exchange in that market. Prescription of Currency Nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are effected in U.S. dollars. Costa Rica does not maintain any payments or clearing agree- ments with other countries. There is, however, a global compensation arrangement with Italy, and Costa Rican importers may, if they wish, make payments to Italy through a central account maintained in accounting dollars at the Banco de Costa Rica. Imports and Import Payments An importer may order any goods from abroad and have them entered through the Costa Rican customs without control or restriction. Control over imports arises only in regard to payments for essential imports at the official rate; these imports consist of some 512 items included in a "List of Primary Needs," and represent approximately 55 per cent of total imports. An exchange license from the Central Bank must be obtained to effect payments for imports at the official market rate. In general, these ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA licenses are issued automatically and without delay. Payments for nonessential and luxury imports must be made through the free market, where the importer may purchase the necessary exchange without limi- tation. Under contracts signed with the Costa Rican Government, a foreign-owned banana company may effect certain essential imports in lieu of surrendering exchange from its exports. Payments for Invisibles Payments permitted at the official selling rate are government pay- ments, earnings of registered foreign capital invested after January 30, 1933 (other than of foreign investments governed by special contracts), up to 10 per cent annually of the investment, and specified expenses of students who are taking specialized courses abroad and are registered with the Central Bank. These transactions require exchange licenses, which are obtainable upon presentation to the Bank of an application with appropriate substantiating documents. Payments for all other invisibles are not controlled and are effected through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange for the official market. Export licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and they are granted if the exporter agrees to surrender the exchange proceeds at the official rate; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guaranty in this respect. Exports of goods in short supply domestically may be restricted. There is a list of strategic materials whose export to communist-dominated countries is prohibited. Exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered at the official rate. However, for certain commodities, such as bananas grown by independent producers, cacao, tuna fish, gold, tomatoes, cardboard, and furniture (see also section on Changes during 1955, be low), the Central Bank, following approval by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture, has authorized exporters to retain 65 per cent of their export exchange for sale in the free market, resulting in an effective rate of about $ 6.27 per US$1. Re-exports of foreign goods are subject to the regulations applying to exports; but if the goods have been imported at the free market rate, this rate will apply to their re-export. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA MCA Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles required to be surrendered at the official rate are insurance indemnities, where they arise from insurance the premiums on which were covered in the official market, receipts by the Government and public entities, and sales of exchange by foreign concessionnaires whose contracts require such sales in the official mar- ket. Receipts from other invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Residents are not granted access to the official market for their capi- tal transactions, but may freely receive and effect transfers of capital without limitation at the free market rate. Exchange receipts from foreign capital registered with the Central Bank must be surrendered at the official rate. The granting of official market exchange for amor- tization of registered foreign capital is subject to exchange licensing by the Central Bank, which decides on the applications on a case-to-case basis and in the light of the availability of exchange for that purpose. Certain foreign-owned investments are dealt with individually under special contracts. There are no limitations on the receipt and payment of unregistered foreign capital through the free market. Table of Exchange Rales (as at December 31, 1955) (colones per UJS. dollar) Buying 5.60 (Official Rate) All exports except those at C 6.27 rate. Certain invisibles. Registered capital. 6.27 (36% at <P 5.60 and 66% at Free Market Rate) Certain exports by special authoriza- tion from the Central Bank. 6.63 (Free Market Rate) All other receipts. Changes during 1955 Selling 5.67 (Official Rate) Essential imports. Government pay- ments. Students' expenses. Registered capital. 6.65 (Free Market Rate) All other payments. January 11 Exporters of meat were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate. 90 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA March 1 Exporters of shrimp were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate. May 27 Exporters of rubber products were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrender- able at the official rate. July 21 Exporters of books printed in Costa Rica were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate. August 18 Permission to exporters of sauces, pickles, and balsam of Peru to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market was withdrawn. September 1 Exporters of sweaters were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate. September 27 Exporters of cacao were permitted to sell 65 per cent of their export proceeds in the free market, the balance being surrenderable at the official rate, on a temporary basis, to June 30, 1956. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Exchange Rate System The par value is Danish Kroner 6.90714 = US$1. The official rates are DKr 6.901 buying, DKr 6.914 selling, per US$1. Denmark participates with Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, with other authorized banks in these countries in any of their currencies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries con- cerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the inter- play of market forces. Denmark operates a dollar export incentive scheme which takes the form of negotiation at a premium of special transferable import rights given to exporters to the dollar area when they surrender their dollar export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Denmark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control The exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Den- mark, which is the central exchange control authority in Denmark. However, administrative powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., the banks and stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Licenses for imports and exports, when they are required, are issued by the Directorate of Supply (an agency of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Shipping), by the Ministry of Agriculture, or by the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency As a general rule, outgoing payments must be made in the currency related to the monetary area or country of the recipient or in Danish kroner by crediting a nonresident account held by an account holder 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK of the monetary area or country concerned. However, payments to the dollar area may be effected in any currency, and payments to non- dollar countries with which there are no payments agreements l may be made in EPU currencies. Payments to most countries are effected through the authorized exchange dealers, but payments to Argentina, Bulgaria, Colombia, East Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Para- guay, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, the U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugo- slavia are channeled through the National Bank of Denmark. Receipts from abroad must, as a general rule, be obtained in the related foreign currency, or in Danish kroner by debiting a nonresident account of an account holder of the monetary area or country con- cerned. However, U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and free Swiss francs may be received from any country, and EPU currencies may be received f rom any country outside the dollar area. Nonresident Accounts The accounts held in Danish kroner by nonresidents are divided into four different types —Krone Accounts I, II, III, and IV —designated by nationality according to the country of residence of the account holder. These various types of account are held for the fo l low ing purposes: 1. Krone Accounts I may be used for settling current transactions between Denmark and the country where the account holder resides. They are permitted to be held primarily by banks residing in foreign countries. 2. Krone Accounts II may be used for making payments in Denmark for the settlement of current transactions with the country of the account holder. They are held mainly by commercial firms. New funds may be credited to these accounts only by transfers from Krone Accounts I belonging to banks with the same designation of nationality. 3. Krone Accounts III are established for insurance companies abroad for use in the settlement of insurance and reinsurance transactions between Denmark and the country where the insurance company is domiciled. 4. Krone Accounts IV comprise all other foreign Krone Accounts. They are generally used for the crediting of private amounts that foreign 1 Apart from payments agreements with EPU countries, Denmark has concluded bilateral payments agreements with Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Colombia, Czecho- slovakia, Finland, East Germany, Hungary, Israel, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK owners wish to retain in Denmark or that cannot be transferred abroad. Crediting and debiting of these accounts may, in principle, take place only with special permission of the National Bank of Denmark. The Bank has, however, permitted the authorized exchange dealers and the savings banks to effect a wide range of specified transactions. Balances on Krone Accounts I, II, or III related to most countries may at any time be transferred abroad in the currency of the national- ity of the account holder. Where transfers between these three types of account are allowed, they may usually be made only between accounts of the same designation of nationality. However, transfers between Krone Accounts I related to EPU countries participating in the multilateral arbitrage arrangement (see section on Exchange Rate System, above), transfers from Krone Accounts I to Krone Accounts III of different nationality and vice versa, and transfers between Krone Accounts III of different nationality are permitted. Balances on Krone Accounts IV may be transferred abroad within the limits set for capital transfers (see section on Capital, below). Imports and Import Payments Most imports from OEEC countries, including their associated terri- tories, and from certain bilateral countries,2 and a wide range of imports from the dollar area,3 are either free of import license or licenses are issued freely for them. Licenses are required for most imports from other countries. The import of certain goods from the countries covered by the OEEC liberalization is possible by purchasing a "title to import license" (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). There are four free lists for imports, as follows: 1. The "general free list" applies to imports originating in the dollar area or in OEEC countries. Settlements may be made freely even if they involve payments to the dollar area. 2. The "regional free list" designates goods that may be purchased freely in the EPU area against settlement through EPU. 3. The "free issue of license list" designates imports for which the authorities are prepared to grant licenses without imposing restric- tions. This list is subdivided into (a) "general free issue of license 2 Argentina, Brazil, Finland, Israel, Spain, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 3 In the Danish regulations, the dollar area comprises Canada, Bolivia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Hon- duras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 94 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK list," which, like the list under 1, above, is applicable to imports from dollar or EPU countries, and (b) "regional free issue of license list," which, like the list under 2, above, is applicable only to imports from the EPU area. 4. A specific list classifies imports with origin in EPU countries for which licenses are granted freely if an advance deposit payment, varying between 30 and 45 per cent of the import value, is made. The deposit will be refunded 12 months after it is made. (Imports under this list cover about 7 per cent of total imports.) The "general free list" and the "regional free list" are also applied to imports from certain bilateral countries,4 on condition that settlements are effected in accordance with the relevant currency prescriptions. Import declarations, when certified by the customs authorities, serve as authorization to pay for the corresponding goods and the related shipping expenses. However, the authorized dealers may effect payment before clearance of the goods if the importer submits a statement prom- ising to present the import declaration later. Foreign exchange may be made available only by the National Bank or —insofar as payments agreements do not prevent them from effecting foreign exchange trans- actions—by authorized exchange dealers. The form of currency for such payments is specified (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles The authorized exchange dealers are permitted to effect freely most payments for invisibles; only in a few cases is approval from the National Bank or from a special authority required. Transfers of not more than DKr 50 for any noncommercial purpose are permitted freely. Foreign exchange for travel outside the dollar area is allocated freely, and an annual exchange allocation of US$100 per adult is given for tourist travel to the dollar area. Travelers may take out freely DKr 300 in domestic banknotes and any amount of foreign banknotes that have been purchased from the National Bank or from an authorized exchange dealer. Nonresident travelers may also take out foreign banknotes brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of major agricultural products and of a range of industrial products, and most exports to countries outside the OEEC and dollar areas, require export licenses; these are issued by the Directorate of 4 See footnote 2. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Supply (an agency of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Ship- ping), by the Ministry of Agriculture, or by the Ministry of Fisheries. Certain exports are subject to restrictive licensing to safeguard the ful- fillment of bilateral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to importing countries, to serve strategic purposes, to avoid re-export and transit transactions involving loss of hard currency, and to secure the domestic supply of essential goods. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be transferred to Den- mark unless the National Bank permits otherwise. If recipients show evidence to the Bank that they require exchange in that currency to cover their own obligations due within three months, or to maintain their business interests abroad, or for other purposes deemed necessary, the Bank may exempt them from the general obligation to surrender those exchange proceeds. Transferred foreign exchange must be offered for purchase to the National Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer within eight days after receipt. The type of currency to be received for exports is prescribed (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Exporters of most goods delivered to countries listed as belonging to the dollar area (or to U.S. and Canadian military forces stationed out- side the dollar area) and paid for in U.S. or Canadian dollars (or in Danish kroner from a U.S. or Canadian Krone Account I) obtain, against surrender of their dollar receipts at the official rate of exchange, a "title to import license" for 10 per cent of their export proceeds. This "title to import license" grants the right to import, against payment at the official rate of exchange, otherwise restricted goods from OEEC countries and their associated territories, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Fin- land, Israel, the Spanish Monetary Area, the U.S.S.R., or Yugoslavia. These import rights are transferable. In order to limit the market price of the import rights to 80 per cent of the face value of the import license, the Government makes the necessary "titles to import license" avail- able to the market as loans at that price. These "titles" (called "L-titles to import license") are nonnegotiable and the importers are under obligation to settle the loans later by purchasing ordinary "titles" in the market. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts derived from invisibles must be trans- ferred to Denmark unless the National Bank permits otherwise (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Transferred foreign exchange must be offered for purchase to the National Bank or to an authorized foreign exchange dealer within eight days after receipt. 96 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Travelers may bring into Denmark up to DKr 300 in domestic banknotes. Foreign banknotes may be imported freely in any amount. Capital Both outward and inward capital transfers for residents or non- residents require approval by the National Bank. Anyone receiving from abroad a payment exceeding DKr 500 must submit a report con- cerning this receipt to an authorized exchange dealer; if the authorized exchange dealer considers that the purpose of the payment reported is not of a current nature, settlement or payment can take place only after the National Bank has given authorization. Inward capital transfers of up to DKr 100,000 a year per person from present and former Danish nationals living abroad are permitted. Dan- ish nationals living abroad are freely permitted to invest noncommercial capital held in Denmark in securities payable exclusively in Danish kroner and in real estate. Foreign nationals normally are permitted to make such investments only if they have close connections (i.e., by family, business, or the like) with Denmark. Transfers of foreign-owned capital of a noncommercial nature (in- cluding the proceeds of the sale of Danish kroner securities owned by nonresidents) to Finland, Norway, Sweden, and the Sterling Area are permitted freely; those to other EPU countries, their associated territories, Canada, and the United States may be transferred up to DKr 25,000 a year per person. If the owner of the capital is a Danish national residing abroad, he must not have been a permanent resident of Denmark within the last three years. Most outward capital trans- fers must be channeled through Krone Accounts IV. In general, trans- fers of nonresident capital assets in Denmark are permitted between residents of the same country, or between residents of EPU countries. Applications for capital transfers for the purpose of making direct investments abroad or in Denmark are considered upon their indi- vidual merits. In handling such applications, the National Bank fol- lows a liberal practice, taking into account that intended investments should effect a net increase in Danish earnings of foreign exchange or should promise other tangible advantages to the economy of the country. Securities other than securities payable exclusively in Danish kroner, held in Denmark for the account of residents or nonresidents, may be sent abroad freely. 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Changes during 1955 February 1 The special office for exchange control for freight payments that had been in operation since 1949 was closed, and its functions were trans- ferred to the Directorate of Supply and the National Bank of Denmark. The powers of authorized exchange dealers to permit freight payments to EPU countries were extended to cover payments to all countries. February 23 A free list for imports originating in the dollar area was put into effect, covering about 38 per cent of Denmark's 1953 imports from that area. Simultaneously, the system of free lists for imports was revised (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Julyl The OEEC free list was enlarged, raising the liberalization percent- age from 76.0 to 78.4 (on the basis of private imports in 1948). At the same time, some of the goods newly added to the OEEC list were also added to the dollar free list, increasing the dollar import liberalization from 38 per cent to 40 per cent (on the basis of private imports in 1953). July 7 The prescription of currency requirements were modified as follows: Any EPU currency could now be used for payments to any EPU country, to the dollar area, or to any country with which Denmark has no payments agreement. EPU currencies could be provided for the exchange allocation for travel to any non-dollar country, and also limited amounts of dollar currency for travel to South American countries. U.S. and Canadian dollars and free Swiss francs could be received from any country, and EPU currencies could be received from any non-dollar country, unless a specific currency prescription provided otherwise. The free intertransferability of balances on Krone Accounts I related to EPU countries was limited to accounts related to countries participating in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangement in operation among certain EPU countries. Authorized dealers were permitted to carry out arbitrage trans- actions between U.S. and Canadian dollars (including balances on the respective nonresident Krone Accounts). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Danish forwarding agents were given permission to offset exchange liabilities and claims arising from the forwarding of merchandise in international trade. August 22 Italian authorized banks and Italian lire were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. November 1 The dollar free list was enlarged to cover 55 per cent of Danish imports from dollar countries in 1953. December 5 Italian authorized banks and Italian lire were included, for forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Ecuadoran Sucres 15.00 = US$1. This rate applies to most exports, essential and semiessential imports, government pay- ments, registered private and official capital, and certain other specified transactions. Multiple currency practices arise from the existence, along with the official market, of a free market that has two sectors: (1) a controlled sector for exchange transactions related to selected minor exports and luxury and nonessential imports and (2) an uncon- trolled sector for invisibles, unregistered capital, and, optionally, for luxury and nonessential imports. Other multiple rates result from the "mixing" arrangements for exchange proceeds from exports of chemical products, medicines, bananas, and rice. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The authorities of the Central Bank of Ecuador control and supervise the transactions permitted to pass through the official market and the controlled sector of the free market. All transactions that do not qualify for these markets may enter the uncontrolled sector of the free market, where, although the market is regulated by the Central Bank, such transactions are free of supervision by the exchange control authorities. Prescription of Currency In principle, exchange proceeds must be received in U.S. dollars, but bilateral agreements with Argentina, Chile, Colombia, France, Italy, and Spain require payment through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars at the central banks of the countries concerned.1 Imports and Import Payments A prior import license is required for substantially all imports other than those representing foreign loans and those of certain foreign companies; but apart from prohibited imports, and samples and gifts up to a value of US$40 that do not require a license, import licenses are issued freely. Imports are divided in two categories—essential and XA payments arrangement with the Federal Republic of Germany terminated on December 31, 1955, with the proviso that transactions outstanding on that date would continue to be paid for through the clearing account until March 31, 1956. 100 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR semiessential (List 1) and nonessential and luxury (List 2) —and goods not included in these two categories are prohibited. Nevertheless, the Monetary Board may authorize the import of goods not included in the two categories. The granting of an import license issued by the Exchange Depart- ment of the Central Bank carries with it the right to purchase the required foreign exchange at the official market rate for List 1 imports and at the controlled free market rate for List 2 imports. Importers may also deliver foreign exchange from the uncontrolled free market to pay for imports on List 2. Legally, the Bank must act on an appli- cation within three days, stating any advance deposits which must be paid before the license is issued. For imports of essential and semi- essential goods (List 1), the Central Bank imposes the following re- quirements for prior deposits of local currency: 50 per cent (guarantee deposit) of the c.i.f. value of imports paid for in advance; 5 or 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports involving sight or time payments. The Central Bank is authorized to exempt from any advance deposit requirement imports of capital goods which have to be manufactured to order and which involve a delivery period of more than eight months. For imports of nonessential and luxury goods (List 2 ), foreign exchange to cover the entire import value and local currency to cover 40 per cent of the customs duties must be deposited with the Central Bank prior to the issuance of the import license. The Bank issues the import license as soon as the importer has made any advance deposit required and has paid the consular fee applicable to the import. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles are made through the uncontrolled sector of the free market and are not subject to exchange control. Certain invisibles may be paid for at the official rate but require an exchange license from the Central Bank, which grants such licenses for the following items: contractual interest payments, amortization of loans, and other obligations abroad which are registered at the Central Bank; payments of dividends, profits, interest, and amortiza- tion on registered foreign investments, of at least 12 per cent annually; indispensable payments and remittances of the Government and official entities; and foreign exchange required by persons taking specialized courses abroad, provided that such persons register with the Central Bank and that the amounts do not exceed passenger fares, expenses of travel, tuition, and a maximum of US$100 per month for living expenses. 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exports and Export Proceeds All exports other than those of certain foreign companies require licenses, which are issued by the Central Bank, to ensure surrender of foreign exchange proceeds or, as in the case of banana export proceeds, to allow their sale in the free market. Export licenses are issued after application has been made by the exporter and arrangements have been made either for the surrender to the Central Bank of freely convertible foreign exchange, or for settlement through a payments agreement account, or for the return of the exchange to Ecuador if it is eligible for sale on the free market. The official rate applies to the proceeds of most exports; the proceeds of certain minor ones are sold to the Central Bank at the controlled free market rate. Banana exporters surrender exchange for fixed amounts per stem at the official rate and the controlled free market rate; the remainder may be sold at the uncontrolled free market rate or transferred abroad. A mixing arrangement also applies to exports of rice, and of chemical products and medicines (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Proceeds from Invisibles Most receipts from invisibles are sold through the uncontrolled free market and are not subject to control by the exchange control authorities. Capital Receipts of foreign capital may enter at the official rate if they are for approved purposes and are registered with the Central Bank. Registered capital and earnings of at least 12 per cent may be trans- ferred at the official rate (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). The Central Bank may refuse to register capital. Foreign capital for official investments, and that in the form of foreign exchange sold by foreign companies for the purpose of obtaining local currency to pay local salaries, taxes, and other charges, has to be surrendered at the official rate if the capital is to be registered. Unregistered capital is free to enter through the uncontrolled free market in unlimited quantities. Foreign nonmonetary capital entering in the form of machinery, tools, etc., is treated like foreign monetary capital and requires a license, except when it represents foreign official loans or the capital of certain foreign companies. Machinery, equipment, implements, materials, and other similar items brought into the country as foreign investments and intended for the development of national 102 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR production are exempt from taxes if the Ministry of the Treasury has so authorized. Their re-export is free and exempt from duties. Transfers of a capital nature by residents into and out of Ecuador may be made freely through the uncontrolled free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (sucres per U.S. dollar) from Es- Buying 15.00 (Official Rate) Most exports (f.o.b. value). Rice ex- port proceeds over US$6.00 per quintal. Registered foreign capital. Foreign offi- cial loans. Government receipts. 15.27 2 Banana exports, except meraldas province. 15.33 2 Banana exports from Esmeraldas prov- ince. 15.92 (60% at S/ 15 and 40% at Con- trolled Free Market Rate) Exports of chemical products and medi- cines. 17.30 (Controlled Free Market Rate) Rice export proceeds up to US$6.00 per quintal. Minor and marginal exports. 17.388 (Uncontrolled Free Market Rate) Invisibles. Unregistered capital. Selling 15.15 (Official Rate) List 1 imports (c.i.f. value). Govern- ment payments. Interest, dividends, and amortization on registered foreign capital. Certain other invisibles. 17.40 (Controlled Free Market Rate) List 2 imports. 17.438 (Uncontrolled Free Market Rate) Most invisibles. All unregistered capi- tal. Optional for List 2 imports. 2 Banana export proceeds are surrendered at the official rate to the extent of US$1.50 per stem and at the controlled free rate to the extent of US$0.20 per stem (effective rate, S/ 15.27), with the exception of the export proceeds of bananas from Esmeraldas province, which are surrendered US$1.20 per stem at the official rate and US$050 per stem at the controlled free rate (effective rate, S/ 15.33). These effective rates do not take into account the remaining banana export pro- ceeds, which may be sold at the uncontrolled free market rate. 3 Average rate for 1955. Changes during 1955 February 25 The provision for the payment to the Central Bank of advance deposits of 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports of specified List 1 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR goods to be paid against sight or time d ra f t, established on Novem- ber 11, 1954, was abolished. March 1 The prepayment requirement of the 8^ per cent consular fee was reduced to 6 per cent, the remainder of the fee being payable after arrival of the goods. March 4 Imports of lard were suspended. March 30 Copra was included in List 1 imports. May 10 Export proceeds of bananas were required to be surrendered at the official rate to the extent of US$1.50 per stem. May 25 Export proceeds of bananas from Esmeraldas province were required to be surrendered at the official rate to the extent of US$1.20 per stem. June 6 Imports of passenger automobiles, etc., valued at more than US$2,400 f.o.b. factory were prohibited. June 7 Certain import commodities, among which were station wagons, cement, accounting and statistical machines, woolen fabrics, bicycles, cotton sacks, and various durable consumer goods, were transferred from List 1 to List 2. June 9 Imports of lard (previously suspended on March 4) were included in List 2. July 14 An ad valorem tax of 10 per cent was imposed, until May 31, 1956, on the f.o.b. value of imports included in List 2, calculated at the 104 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR official rate of exchange. The proceeds of this tax would be paid to the Fondo de Regulacion de Valores. July 23 Advance deposit requirements of 30 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports of all List 1 goods were imposed (see February 25, above). July 25 Proceeds of banana exports were required to be surrendered at the official rate to the extent of US$1.50 per stem and at the controlled free rate to the extent of US$0.20 per stem; for banana exports from Esmeraldas province, the amounts to be surrendered at the official and controlled free rates were fixed at US$1.20 and US$0.20 per stem, respectively. All export proceeds eligible for the controlled free rate had to be sold only to the Central Bank. September 29 Advance deposits required for the import of List 1 goods were re- duced to 20 per cent for some items and 15 per cent for others. The Central Bank was also authorized to exempt from any advance deposit requirement imports of capital goods which have to be manufactured to order and which involve a delivery period of more than eight months. Certain imports, including chocolate, lace, ready-made clothing of cotton and linen, furniture, and lamps, were prohibited. October 5 Certain import commodities, including books and periodicals, woolen clothing, and nonelectric stoves and heaters, were transferred from List 1 to List 2. December 15 The advance deposit requirements of 20 per cent on some List 1 goods and 15 per cent on others were reduced to 15 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Exchange Rate System The par value is Egyptian Pound 1 — US$2.87156. Commercial banks' rates as at December 31,1955 were $2.8805 buying, $2.8619 sell- ing, per LE 1. A tax of 10 per cent is charged in most cases on exchange allocated for travel, on maintenance remittances if the beneficiary is either an Egyptian national or a foreigner holding an Egyptian resi- dence visa, and on revenue remitted to Egyptian nationals residing permanently abroad. Administration of Control Exchange control in Egypt is supervised by the Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange set up by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The exchange control laws, ministerial arrets, decree-laws, and instruc- tions of the Minister of Finance and Economy and of the Supreme Com- mittee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minister of Finance and Economy. The technical work of ex- change control is performed, under the supervision and the instructions of the Director of Exchange Operations, by the Central Exchange Con- trol attached to the National Bank of Egypt. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the manner and currency for effecting settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles depends on the country or monetary area involved, the type of transaction, and, in particular, the category of the import concerned. Settlements may be effected in one or more of the following ways: (1) in sterling through an Egyptian Transferable Account in the United Kingdom; (2) in Egyptian pounds through accounts maintained in accordance with pay- ments agreements;x or (3) in the currency of the country with which the transaction is to be carried out, under special regulation or in accordance with payments agreements. The exchange control authori- ties can permit exceptions to, or exemptions from, the generally estab- lished prescription of currency regulations. As a general rule, transit trade and re-export transactions must be settled on the basis that the same currency is paid and received. 1 Countries with which Egypt has concluded payments agreements are Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union, Bulgaria, Ceylon, Czechoslovakia, France, East Germany, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece; Hungary, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Lebanon, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 106 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are described below. 1. Ordinary (or so-called "Free") Nonresident Accounts. These accounts are named according to the country or monetary area in which the account holder is normally resident, but in the case of the United States, Canada, Switzerland, and Portugal, this applies only to na- tionals of these countries residing in their own country. Ordinary Non- resident Accounts may be credited freely with transfers from nonresi- dent accounts of the same monetary area. They may be debited with payments to residents of Egypt, including payments for exports to the monetary area in which the account holder is resident and direct remit- tances in the currency of the monetary area related to the designation of the account. 2. Special Nonresident Accounts. These accounts are established and operated in accordance with bilateral payments arrangements. 3. Blocked Accounts. These accounts are credited with any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regulations and not creditable to Provisionally Blocked Accounts (see 4, below). They may be debited freely (a) with amounts up to LE 1,000 per year for living expenses of the account holder in Egypt; (b) for investments in Egyptian Government loans and in inscribed or registered shares in nominative form of companies established in Egypt (not redeemable on a date earlier than ten yea rs ); and (c) for subscriptions to increases of capital in Egyptian companies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived from such investments may be credited to an appropriate Ordinary ("Free") Nonresident Account. Transfers from one Blocked Account to another Blocked Account of the same country or monetary area may be made without prior reference to the Central Exchange Control. 4. Provisionally Blocked Accounts. These accounts are opened for residents of Canada and the United States when funds due to them in respect of capital or revenue are temporarily nontransferable because of a shortage of the corresponding currencies. Balances on these ac- counts may be used for the same purposes as those indicated above under Blocked Accounts, 3 (b) and 3 ( c ), and also for living expenses of the account holder in Egypt and allowances to his relatives in Egypt, for transfers in the form of monthly allowances in cases of justified need, and for transfers to other Provisionally Blocked Accounts related to the same monetary area. 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports are subject to individual license, the issuance of which is dependent on the currency and method of settlement and the category of the goods to be imported. Licenses for imports are issued on a restrictive basis if they involve the allocation of dollars, sterling, or deutsche marks. Licenses for imports from countries with which Egypt has payments agreements are issued freely. Exchange to pay for author- ized imports is granted automatically upon presentation of a valid import license. The import of specified nonessentials is permitted on a semibarter basis, provided that goods equal to double the value of the imports in question are exported and that half the value of such exports is received in sterling. Similarly, certain goods may be imported from the dollar area against half the value of goods exported in exchange, the other half to be repatriated in dollars. Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to effect certain invisible transactions without prior exchange control approval; other invisibles require prior approval of the Central Exchange Control. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current payments. Expenses for travel, family maintenance, film royal- ties, and subscriptions and fees of professional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. There is a basic exchange allowance for travel of LE 75 per adult per year, with additional amounts for elderly persons. Remittances for travel and maintenance on behalf of Egyptian residents, either nationals or foreigners, are subject to a 10 per cent tax. Exemptions from this tax are granted to remittances of diplomats, students, certain officials, and others. Persons leaving Egypt may take with them no more than LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes. Foreign banknotes up to the equivalent of LE 20 purchased with the approval of the Central Exchange Control, and foreign banknotes brought in and declared by transit travelers or tourists, may be taken out by the travelers concerned. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are allowed without restriction unless the commodity is re- quired for the national economy, in which case the export may be pro- hibited or allowed only under quota. All export proceeds must be repatriated within six months from the date of shipment of the goods 108 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT and the foreign exchange proceeds surrendered. Proceeds from exports to payments agreement countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreements. Proceeds from Invisibles All persons and legal entities in Egypt are obliged to offer to author- ized banks at the official exchange rate all proceeds payable in foreign currencies, within one month from the date of their collection abroad. Persons arriving in Egypt from abroad may bring in not more than LE 20 in Egyptian banknotes. Capital Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acquiring capital assets or securities outside Egypt require individual licenses, which normally are not granted. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Nonresidents may freely purchase securities on Egyptian stock ex- changes against payment in acceptable foreign currencies or in Egyp- tian pounds by debiting an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities can be bought against payment by debiting Blocked Accounts or Provisionally Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Proceeds from the sale of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to Blocked Accounts. Transfers of securities between nonresidents of the same monetary area are permitted. Transfers abroad are permitted in payment of (1) securities drawn or matured in accordance with the original terms of issue, (2) the proceeds of income from securities quoted on an Egyptian stock exchange on account of customers resident abroad, if the payment is made to the country of residence of the owner of the securities, and (3) matured mortgages. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 per family—irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income—may be released from a family's assets in Egypt to residents of foreign nationality who acquire nonresident status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a Blocked Account, except that capital transfers to Switzerland and the Sterling Area may exceed LE 5,000. Any payment of a capital nature not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a Blocked Account. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 provide for preferential treatment of new foreign investments that contribute to the development of the Egyptian economy in the fields of industry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tour- ism. For the purposes of these laws, foreign capital is defined as (1) foreign capital transferred to Egypt through a bank duly author- ized by the Central Exchange Control; (2) industrial and agricultural machinery and equipment, raw materials required for the erection or enlargement of buildings, and means of transport, if they are imported for the purposes specified in the 1953 law; (3) legal rights, such as patents and trademarks, if they are the property of nonresidents; (4) all profits realized by a registered concern, if they are channeled to increase the original capital or are invested in another undertaking, subject to the approval of the committee set up under the 1953 law. Funds trans- ferred to Egypt from abroad as a result of obligations undertaken in conformity with laws in force shall not be regarded as foreign capital eligible to benefit from the privileges of the 1953 and 1954 laws. Profits realized from the investment of foreign capital, as defined above, may be transferred abroad in the original currency of the invest- ment and at the rate of exchange in force at the time of the transfer. Registered foreign capital may be repatriated five years after entry, at an annual rate not exceeding one fifth of its registered value, in the original currency of the investment and at the exchange rate prevailing at the time of transfer. The owner of foreign capital may apply for the repatriation of his capital at any time after one year from the date his capital came in, if practical difficulties, recognized by the special com- mittee set up under the 1953 law, have prevented its investment. Authority for repatriation is granted within three months from the date of application. The profits and the proportion of the capital authorized for transfer may be deposited in a special account with the National Bank and used to pay for goods the export of which is permitted. Changes during 1955 January 18 It was decided that import licenses for goods involving payment through the "export pound accounts" would no longer be issued. February The three lists of Egypt's export products were revised. The list of prohibited goods was expanded slightly and the list of goods exportable under general export license was shortened somewhat. 110 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT February 28 It was established that all commodities could be imported from the dollar area through the Import Entitlement Account procedure. March 2 A trade and payments agreement was concluded with Indonesia according to which payments would be effected in accounting sterling through a clearing account. Current payments eligible for transfer under this agreement were defined. June 27 On the occasion of the renewal of the payments agreement with Belgium-Luxembourg, it was agreed that 25 per cent of the total payments for Belgian exports should be made in Belgian francs (instead of 33% per cent, as previously) and the balance in Egyptian pounds. Individual Belgian exporters were permitted to receive a lower per- centage of Belgian francs in payment of their exports. The Egyptian authorities, on the other hand, could authorize payments in Import Entitlement Account sterling or dollars. June 30 The new trade and payments agreement with France provided that payments for private imports of capital goods and for government imports of iron goods and wool would be effected in pounds sterling at the par value rate. Import Entitlement Account sterling would be used for private imports of iron goods and wool. September 1 The Import Entitlement Account procedure for the pound sterling and the deutsche mark was abolished. A restrictive import policy for imports paid for in these currencies was re-established. September 5 A payments agreement was signed with Saudi Arabia. Current pay- ments were to be made through a centralized account in Egyptian pounds maintained in the name of the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency at the National Bank of Egypt. Ill ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EGYPT September 27 The Import Entitlement Account procedure for the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar was abolished. A restrictive import licensing policy for imports paid for in these currencies was re-established. At the same time, payments for cotton exports to Belgium, the Netherlands, and Switzerland through Egyptian pound "B" accounts were suspended. In connection with the reopening of the cotton market in Alexandria, special exchange facilities were given to authorized brokers for their forward cotton transactions. October 20 An agreement was reached with Switzerland, whereby payments in "B" account Egyptian pounds for cotton exports to that country would again be permitted, provided the cotton was not re-exported. November 10 A trade and payments agreement was signed with East Germany to replace one concluded in March 1953. The debit limit on the clearing account was increased from LE 500,000 to LE 750,000. 112 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Ethiopian Dollars 2.48447 .= US$1. The official rates are Eth$2.48 buying, Eth$2.53 selling, per US$1; the official selling rate represents a spread of more than 1 per cent from the par value. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be effected through the State Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and exports are subject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a Depart- ment of the State Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments outside Ethiopia must be effected in foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient. Foreign exchange from exports must be received in the appropriate currency, usually that of the country of final destination. The proceeds of coffee exports are subject to special regulations (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Imports and Import Payments There are no import licenses, but payments outside Ethiopia for imports require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for all goods in the appropriate currency of the country of origin or in a softer currency. Application for an exchange license must be made prior to the arrival of the goods. Although the exchange license states that "method of payment must be letter of credit unless otherwise per- mitted," cash-against-documents, mail-transfer, and telegraphic- transfer payments are, for the most part, allowed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses; invisibles con- nected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Exchange for education is granted within the reasonable limits of each case. Foreign employees may remit currently at least 33% per cent of their salaries; the exact amount depends on the terms of their contracts. Nonsalaried foreigners are allowed to remit UK£15 to UK£25 (or equivalent) per month per 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA dependent for family maintenance. Foreign companies may remit dividends and other current earnings up to 25 per cent of the invested and reinvested capital, in the currency of the original investment. Emigrants' allowances and transfers of legacies are permitted up to UK£10,000 or the equivalent; for larger sums, reference has to be made to the Foreign Exchange Advisory Committee. The policy of the Committee in such cases is to spread the total transfer over a period of years so that the amount transferred in any one year does not exceed UK£10,000. Persons traveling abroad are granted foreign exchange in the cur- rency of the country of destination on a case-to-case basis; they may take with them a maximum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must state the amount of foreign exchange he expects to receive. Minimum prices are established for all exports. The granting of the license by the Exchange Controller enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that foreign exchange receipts are surrendered to the State Bank of Ethiopia and that export proceeds are received in appropriate exchange (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). In due time, exporters must surrender at the official rate the prom- ised amount of foreign exchange. There are special regulations for the proceeds of coffee exports: where such exports are made to non-dollar countries and documentary proof as to final destination is submitted, the proceeds may be surrendered in either sterling or U.S. dollars; in other cases, at least 50 per cent of an exporter's total annual pro- ceeds from exports of coffee must be surrendered in U.S. dollars and the remainder in sterling. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Persons may bring in a maximum of Eth$150 in Ethiopian banknotes. All foreign exchange must be declared by travelers on entry, and its subsequent use or re-export is subject to license. Capital All foreign exchange receipts in the form of capital must be sur- rendered. There is no discrimination regarding the currencies in which 114 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA foreign investments are accepted. Special concessions are made to new enterprises financed by foreign capital, including exemption from taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of machinery free of duty, and permission to foreign investors to remit abroad annually a portion of profits earned. All payments to countries abroad on account of capital are subject to individual exchange license. Foreign exchange is granted for repayment abroad of matured capital obliga- tions of temporary residents. Other types of capital transfer are handled on a case-to-case basis. Changes during 1955 May 12 Coffee exporters were given the option of surrendering their earnings in either sterling or U.S. dollars, where exports are shipped to non- dollar countries and documentary proof as to final destination is sub- mitted; in all other cases, at least 50 per cent of total annual exports must be surrendered in U.S. dollars and the remainder in sterling. Regulations on emigrants' allowances and transfers of legacies were liberalized, and such transfers were permitted up to UK£10,000 or the equivalent. For larger sums, reference must be made to the Foreign Exchange Advisory Committee. 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exchange Rate System The par value is Finnish Markkas 230 = US$1. The official rates are Fmk 229 buying, Fmk 231 selling, per US$1. Finland operates basically a single rate structure with the maintenance of parity values and orderly cross rates. There are, however, multiple currency prac- tices, since rates representing a premium of approximately 42 per cent over the official rate are in effect for transactions involving exchange for travelers and for the sale and purchase of foreign exchange through Inland Markka Accounts.1 Also, there is a system of subsidization of certain exports, financed by fees levied on certain imports. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system. Foreign exchange can be purchased only from the Bank of Finland or authorized exchange dealers (commercial banks). The latter, and branch offices of the Bank of Finland, deal in travelers' exchange at other than official rates. The current administration of import licensing is handled by an office subordinate to the Ministry of Commerce, the Licensing Office, which is presided over by a Licensing Board composed of government officials; limits for import licensing are set by the Bank of Finland through periodic exchange allocations. The system of export subsidization is administered by a trade clearing agency (Ulkomaankaupan Clearingkunta) under the supervision of the Fin- nish authorities. Prescription of Currency The comprehensive licensing of exports and imports ensures that the methods of payment conform to the provisions of existing pay- ments agreements2 and thus serves to protect Finnish exchange re- serves. Sterling is a key currency in Finnish trade with western coun- tries, and Finland uses the facilities of the Transferable Account 1 The buying rate for exchange from tourists as at January 31, 1956 was Fmk 325 per US$1. 2 Finland has payments arrangements with Argentina, Belgium-Luxembourg, Brazil, Bulgaria, Mainland China, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, East Germany, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, Rumania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, U.S.S.R., United King- dom (Sterling Area), Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 116 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND arrangements (see section on Nonresident Accounts in the survey on the United Kingdom). Nonresident Accounts A system of four types of nonresident account is operated under the control of the Bank of Finland. (1) Exchange Markka Accounts are, for exchange control purposes, equivalent to foreign exchange and may be freely transferred abroad to the country and in the currency of the account holder. (2) Inland Markka Accounts may be held only by foreign banks with the Bank of Finland or with authorized banks. These accounts, which are not transferable abroad, are credited with those current payments whose transfer abroad at the official rate is not allowed and with the proceeds of the sale of foreign exchange at the travel rate. The debiting of these accounts cannot substitute for payment in foreign exchange from abroad. Balances on Inland Markka Accounts may, without prior permission of the Bank of Finland, be utilized for the purchase of securities dealt in on the Finnish Stock Exchange. Certain other expenditures in Finland, including invest- ments other than in securities, may, upon specific authorization which is liberally granted, be defrayed from Inland Markka Accounts, and transfers are allowed between nonresidents, irrespective of country or monetary area. Transfers between Travel Markka Accounts and Inland Markka Accounts held in the names of foreign banks are free. (3) The term "blocked" is applied to all markka assets of nonresidents other than those on nonresident account described under (1), (2), and (4). Blocked Accounts are credited mainly with noncurrent pay- ments. They are not transferable abroad, nor may they, without the consent of the Bank of Finland, be transferred between nonresidents. Certain expenditures in Finland may, however, be defrayed from Blocked Accounts, in particular, living and traveling expenses in Fin- land up to Fmk 100,000 per month per account holder or closely related person (see section on Capital, below). (4) Travel Markka Accounts may not be transferred abroad. They arise out of transfers from the country of the account holder of foreign exchange converted into markkas at the preferential tourist rates of exchange, or by transfers from Inland Markka Accounts, and may be used for the sale abroad of Finnish exchange to travelers going to Finland and for certain other settlements related to tourism. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license. Licenses are allocated to indi- vidual importers primarily on the basis of past imports, but to some 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND extent the past record of importers with regard to the price and quality of imports is taken into account. Licenses are automatically granted for an extensive list of imports of raw materials and foodstuffs, as well as certain manufactured goods, imported from the country of origin in accordance with the payments agreement in force between Finland and that country. The list is divided in two parts; one applies to imports from all countries and one to imports from non-dollar countries only. Exchange in the form prescribed in the license normally is granted without delay. For a limited range of manufactured goods, the alloca- tion of exchange is subject to payment to the agency Ulkomaankaupan Clearingkunta of a price equalization charge amounting, in most cases, to 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of the import. All importers, as a condition for receiving an import license, have to deposit with the Bank of Finland 10 per cent of the value specified in the license.8 The deposit is repaid without interest when the license has been fully used or has expired, but not earlier than three months after the license has been granted. The principal exemptions from the deposit obligation are import licenses for less than Fmk 50,000 and those granted in respect of gifts. Payments for Invisibles Payments not connected with imports are subject to the approval of the Bank of Finland in each case, and all contracts involving pay- ments to nonresidents must be submitted to the Bank for approval. Royalties, income on domestic securities, and other income from capital owned by nonresidents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). However, if the Bank of Finland has approved a contract providing for transfers abroad, exchange is granted automatically for such payments. For certain purposes, e.g., education and scholarships, the Bank of Finland may sell foreign exchange at the official rate. A special system establishes higher rates for travelers' exchange. A Finnish resident going abroad may, for each journey, purchase from commercial banks up to Fmk 25,000 in foreign exchange for each visit to the Scandinavian countries and up to Fmk 50,000 for each visit to other countries, at the tourist rates of exchange involving a premium of about 42 per cent over the official rates. In addition, he may take 8 Effective April 5,1956, this deposit requirement was raised to 20 per cent for all imports except certain raw materials and imports under the automatic licensing procedure. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND with him Fmk 10,000 in Finnish notes. The commercial banks acquire the foreign exchange for such sales by purchasing foreign exchange at the tourist rates from foreign travelers in Finland and from holders of Travel Markka Accounts. No amount larger than he has been allowed by the exchange regulations of his own country to take out of that country may be bought from a foreign traveler. Transfers on account of income on capital owned by nonresidents are generally permitted for (1) interest proceeds due in 1955 from bonds denominated in Finnish markkas, on the condition that the bonds have been uninterruptedly in the possession of a citizen of the same foreign country since September 1, 1939, or the bonds were acquired later against payment to Finland in foreign currency or through a clearing agreement and have since then been in such con- tinuous possession; (2) dividends from shares of Finnish companies up to a maximum of 10 per cent (less taxes) of the nominal value of the shares, or up to a maximum of 10 per cent of the purchase price of the shares if they were acquired after September 1, 1939 and if the purchase price was higher than the nominal value; if the total divi- dends on all shares owned by one person do not exceed Fmk 10,000, the entire amount may be transferred abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license, and all foreign exchange acquired through exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. Through the licensing of exports and the control of the currency of payment, the authorities are able to assure that exports conform to Finnish trade agreements and that exchange surrender requirements are fulfilled. The authorized banks and ship- ping firms are allowed to maintain their own working balances in foreign exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. Export firms are also permitted to keep a part of their export pro- ceeds in foreign exchange accounts at Finnish banks, and in excep- tional cases at foreign banks. The accounts may be used by the exporter for the payment of incidental expenses related to exports and for payments for authorized imports of raw materials, equipment, and machinery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. On application, subsidies of up to 20 per cent of export proceeds are granted by the licensing authorities on a case-by-case basis to exporters of certain products. These subsidies are paid by the agency 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Ulkomaankaupan Clearingkunta, upon evidence that the related export proceeds have been surrendered, out of funds derived from fees charged on certain imports (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Proceeds from Invisibles All foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. Nonresident travelers may bring in a maximum of Fmk 20,000 in Finnish bank- notes; Finnish residents are limited to Fmk 10,000, as they are not permitted to purchase Finnish currency abroad. Capital Each outward transfer on account of nonresident capital is subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. As a rule, such transfers are not permitted, and due payments are credited to Blocked Accounts. The following capital transfers abroad, however, are provided for by agree- ment with other countries: (1) inheritances of Swiss and U.S. citizens may, to a "reasonable extent," be transferred abroad, and Swiss nationals giving up residence in Finland may be allowed to take capital out of Finland; (2) agreements with Denmark and Norway provide for capital transfers on a compensation basis, but these agree- ments are seldom operative owing to the lack of Finnish capital claims on Denmark and Norway. All nonresident-owned investments and property in Finland, income thereon, and proceeds from their sale are considered as blocked assets. Such proceeds and other blocked assets may be credited to a Blocked Account. Interest and dividends may also be credited to a Blocked Account when the beneficiary does not wish payment to be credited to an Inland Markka Account. Balances on Blocked Accounts may be used (1) to pay the traveling and living expenses in Finland of an account holder and his family up to Fmk 100,000 per person per month; (2) to meet expenses related to the administration of property and assets of the account holder; (3) to effect investments in securities quoted on the Stock Exchange (but only out of balances accrued from earnings, amortization of loans or bonds, or from the sale of property with a view to reinvestment). Declaration and surrender obligations are applicable to foreign securities, investments, and proceeds accruing from property owned abroad by persons residing in Finland, but exemption is provided for foreigners who owned such assets prior to June 22, 1941 or took up 120 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND residence in Finland after that date and already owned such assets or acquired them through inheritance or wills after June 227 1941. Outward transfers of capital by residents are subject to individual approval, which is seldom granted. The import and export of securities and any transactions in securities involving nonresident interests require approval. Changes during 1955 January 27 The Bank of Finland authorized export firms to keep a part of their export proceeds in special foreign exchange accounts and to use them for the payment of incidental expenses related to exports and for pay- ments for authorized imports. February 14 Price equalization charges on imported passenger automobiles were modified to a scale of rates on six weight categories, beginning at 30 per cent of the f.o.b. value of cars weighing less than 1,000 kilo- grams and amounting to 135 per cent for those exceeding 1,700 kilo- grams. Only one half of the regular rate of surcharge was applied to cars sold for taxicabs, and purchases by governmental agencies were exempted. Formerly, this surcharge was 30 per cent of the f.o.b. value of cars weighing 1,400 kilograms and 100 per cent for heavier cars. Price equalization charges varying from Fmk 60 to Fmk 100 per kilogram were established on imports of dried fruits, almonds, and nuts. February 19 A relaxation of restrictions on the remittance abroad of payments of interest and dividends due to nonresidents was introduced. June 16 The system of price equalization charges on imported passenger automobiles (see February 14, above) was modified. The surcharge was established on the c.i.f. price and different rates were applied to six value categories, beginning at 30 per cent for cars valued at less than Fmk 200,000 and amounting to 100 per cent for cars valued at Fmk 450,000. For cars valued in excess of Fmk 450,000, the surcharge 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND was set at the c.i.f. value plus 150 per cent of the value in excess of Fmk 450,000. July 1 A new and more liberal import procedure was introduced, under which licenses could be granted automatically for a long list of raw materials, foodstuffs, and certain equipment. The provision of cur- rency for these imports would be on the basis of existing payments agreements between Finland and the exporting countries concerned. Under the new procedure importers could, however, choose the country of purchase as well as decide the volume and timing of imports. The new procedure did not apply to imports from the dollar area. All importers, as a condition for receiving an import license, had to deposit with the Bank of Finland 10 per cent of the value specified in the license. The deposit would be repaid without interest when the license had been fully used or had expired, but no earlier than three months after the license had been granted. The principal exemptions from the deposit obligation were import licenses for less than Fmk 50,000 licenses granted in respect to gifts, and licenses in a cur- rency the use of which for import payments was not restricted by the Bank of Finland when the license was issued. This last exemption related to imports from most Eastern European as well as several Western European and Latin American countries. July 21 Import licenses were made valid for six months, with provision for extension for a further period of six months if the license holder deposits an additional 10 per cent of the original c.i.f. value of the license (i.e., bringing the total deposit to 20 per cent). All import licenses could be extended by one month without an additional deposit. For imports requiring long-term contracts (over six months), only a 10 per cent deposit was required, which would be returned after one year. Subse- quently, several minor modifications have taken place in the deposit system. September 1 The system of deposit requirements (see July 1, above) was extended to imports from all countries. Written permission of the Bank of Finland was no longer necessary for trip chartering (but was still required for time chartering) of for- 122 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND eign tonnage in traffic between Finland and other European ports (excluding those of the Mediterranean and the Black Sea). Payments, however, must be effected according to the payments agreements in force between Finland and the country of domicile of the foreign shipowner concerned. November 11 The list of goods to be licensed on an automatic basis was extended. December 15 Foreign banks were permitted to acquire markkas to be credited to their Inland Markka Accounts by selling, at the travel buying rate, exchange of their own countries to the Finnish banks in which these accounts are kept. Funds on Inland Markka Accounts could be trans- ferred freely to Travel Markka Accounts, and vice versa, when the accounts are those of foreign banks. December 21 The list of goods governed by the automatic licensing procedure was further extended. At the same time, the list was divided in two parts, one applicable to goods to be imported from any country, the other to imports from non-dollar countries only. December 31 The Bank of Finland and the Finnish foreign exchange banks would henceforth quote limited floating exchange rates for Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche marks, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and sterling. The rates could vary between limits established by the central banks of the countries concerned. Spot arbitage would, fcir the time being, be permitted only with sterling against those other currencies where payments agreements permit transactions of this type. Swap and outright forward trans- actions would require special permission of the Bank of Finland. 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Exchange Rate System Since January 1948, France has not maintained an agreed par value in terms of the Fund's Articles of Agreement. Exchange rates in France are stable and of an essentially unitary character, with orderly cross rates. The rate for the U.S. dollar has remained at, or very close to, F 350 per US$1 since September 1949. Exchange rates for 4 currencies—the Canadian dollar, the Djibouti franc, the Mexican peso, and the U.S. dollar—are formed through the interplay of authorized demand and supply and the intervention of the exchange authorities in the market. Mexican pesos, U.S. dollars, and Canadian dollars may, when needed for authorized payments, be acquired by the authorized banks through arbitrage transactions between the three currencies. Exchange rates for 14 other currencies fluctuate according to authorized demand and supply, between limits approximately % of 1 per cent on either side of the parities based on F 350 per US$1. In respect of 9l of these 14 currencies, authorized banks are free to conclude spot exchange arbitrage transactions with authorized banks in any of the countries concerned at or within the official limits, or forward exchange transactions for periods not exceed- ing three months, at rates determined by the interplay of demand and supply based on authorized transactions. These arbitrage arrangements are not in operation for the other 5 currencies.2 Rates for other currencies are notified to the authorized banks by the Bank of France either on the basis of their quotations in London and New York and the quotations of the dollar rate in France, or on the basis of the official quotations of the respective foreign central banks. These rates are published mainly in order to determine the equivalent in French francs of payments expressed in such currencies, since as a general rule settlements between France and countries whose currencies are not mentioned above are effected through appropriate nonresident accounts in French francs. Rates representing a slight deviation from the officially published rates derive from the sale of Capital Account francs by nonresident owners to other nonresidents of the same monetary area for investment or for tourist expenses in France (see section on Nonresident Accounts, 1The currencies of Belgium, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. 2 The currencies of Austria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Portugal, and Yugoslavia. 124 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE below). The Capital Account rate as at December 31,1955 was approxi- mately P 354 per US$1. Exchange Control Territory The French Franc Area comprises Continental France (including Corsica), the Principality of Monaco, the Territory of the Saar, the French Overseas Departments (Algeria, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Reunion), Morocco, Tunisia, the French Overseas Terri- tories (French West Africa, French Equatorial Africa, the Trust Terri- tories of Cameroon and Togo, Madagascar and its dependencies, Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia and depend- encies, the French Establishments in Oceania, and the Condominium of New Hebrides), and Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. Most payments agreements relate to settlements between the French Franc Area as a whole and the other country concerned. Restrictions between the vari- ous territories of the French Franc Area either are not applied or are applied only to minor parts of the Area, although such territories are formally independent exchange control units, each with its own local exchange control. The foreign exchange reserves of the French Franc Area are managed centrally; and the exchange rates of the local cur- rencies of these territories are fixed in relation to the French franc. Administration of Control The Minister of Finance is granted extensive authority in the field of exchange control. The Exchange Office (Office des Changes) carries out French exchange control policy and issues import licenses in accordance with directions formulated by various governmental bodies. The Exchange Office is administered by an Administration Committee whose president is the Governor of the Bank of France, and by a Director designated by the Minister of Finance, and is subject to the control of a financial controller appointed by the Minister of Finance. Much of the detail of exchange control is carried out by authorized banks designated by the Minister of Finance on the proposal of the Governor of the Bank of France. Prescription of Currency General exchange control regulations and, in specific cases, individual decisions of the Exchange Office prescribe the currency and form in which settlements between residents and nonresidents may be effected —usually payment to or from an appropriate nonresident account in French francs and/or the currency of the country of residence of the 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE foreign beneficiary or debtor. For international payments subject to bilateral trade and payments agreements,8 the provisions of the agree- ments determine the prescription of currencies. In all other cases, the country of origin or destination of the goods or services constitutes the basis for the determination of specific provisions applicable to the pre- scription of currency. Nonresident Accounts The main types of nonresident account in French francs are described below. 1. Free Franc Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the franc proceeds from sales of currencies considered as convertible, namely, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Mexican pesos, and U.S. dollars; with transfers from other Free Franc Accounts; and with pay- ments authorized for credit to such accounts. Balances on Free Franc Accounts are freely convertible into convertible currencies. They may be debited for all payments in the French Franc Area or for transfers to any other nonresident franc account. Free Franc Accounts may be opened for residents of the dollar a rea4 and the French Somali Coast. 2. Nonresident Accounts (designated geographically according to the country or monetary area in which the account holder resides). These accounts are related to non-dollar countries. They are convert- ible into the currency of the country of residence of the account holder if that currency is dealt in on the Paris exchange market.5 They may be freely credited with the franc proceeds of the sale of convertible currencies on the free market, with transfers from Free Franc Accounts, and with the proceeds of the sale of a currency related to the same country as that of the account holder. Transfers between accounts related to the same country or monetary area and between all accounts related to EPU countries and certain Nonresident Argentine Accounts 8 Besides payments agreements with EPU countries, France has payments agree- ments with Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, China (Taiwan), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, East Germany, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Japan, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Spain, U.SJ3.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. The agreement with Bolivia lapsed on February 14, 1956. 4 The countries to which this applies are Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nica- ragua, Panama, Peru, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. Bolivia is also included as from February 14, 1956. 6 At present, this provision applies to balances on Nonresident Accounts related to the following countries or monetary areas: Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Nether- lands Monetary Area, Norway, Portuguese Monetary Area, Sterling Area, Sweden, Switzerland, and Yugoslavia. 126 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE are permitted freely (see section on Changes during 1955, December 15, below). These accounts are available for payments in the French Franc Area due from a resident of the country of the account holder, including payments on account of exports to that country. 3. Capital Accounts. These accounts are also designated geograph- ically according to the country of residence of the account holder. They are credited with the proceeds of capital transactions not available for direct remittance to the account holder. Transfers between Capital Accounts of the same nationality, between those related to dollar area countries, and between those related to EPU countries and their mone- tary areas are permitted freely. Balances on these accounts may be utilized freely for such purposes as purchasing investments quoted on stock exchanges in France and French short-term securities, and for the personal tourist expenses in France of the account holder, his family, or persons resident in the same country or monetary area as that of the account holder. Use of balances for the latter purpose is, however, limited to F 10,000 per person per day, with a maximum of F 500,000 for a month's stay of a family in France. In addition to the above-mentioned accounts, there are Tourist Accounts designed mainly for the deposit of French banknotes held by nonresidents, and Internal Accounts of Nonresidents mainly for persons staying temporarily in the French Franc Area or whose residence is not determined. Imports and Import Payments Certain liberalized imports from OEEC countries and their associ- ated territories may be imported without an individual import license by means of an import certificate completed by the importer and stamped by an authorized bank to confirm that payment for the im- port will be made in accordance with the exchange control regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Other imports are subject to individual license. Licenses are granted freely for the folio whig: (1) other liberalized imports from OEEC countries;6 (2) goods liberalized within specified quotas (this group is of limited significance); (3) goods that are reim- ported, subject to various limitations, and a list of goods that includes such items as commercial samples, items brought in for or by diplomats, and a few other goods; (4) goods imported under the EFAC arrange- 6 Some of the freed commodities are, however, temporarily subject to a special compensatory tax on imports. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE ments (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below); and (5) specified equipment goods, raw materials, and semifinished products for export-producing industries. Group (5) includes only imports under the so-called "equipment and raw materials procedure," under which producers of specified export products or groups of products may obtain from the Exchange Office, through the intermediary of their professional organizations, licenses for importing equipment and raw materials needed for production. The allocation of "import rights" under this scheme is limited to 5 per cent of the respective export values. Other imports subject to individual import license may be distin- guished in accordance with the degree of restrictiveness applied: Indi- vidual import licenses usually are granted for specified raw materials or other goods needed for the production of goods to be exported (IMEX or EXIM procedure); imports from OEEC countries receive relatively liberal treatment, at least as far as raw materials are con- cerned; imports from other countries with which France has concluded bilateral trade and payments arrangements are made in accordance with quota and other arrangements and with fluctuations in bilateral balances; and dollar imports, in general, are characterized by a certain degree of restrictiveness. Licenses are issued automatically for purchases of coal and steel products from the other member countries of the European Community for Coal and Steel (Belgium, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands). Under one category of compen- sation arrangements, noncompetitive exports are linked with certain preferred imports (of "nonessentials"), which otherwise are restricted. The import licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office, con- stitute the authority for the authorized bank handling the transaction to effect payment. The authorized banks also effect payments on import certificates related to transactions handled by them. Payments for Invisibles Control over payments in respect of many categories of invisibles is supervisory, to ensure that other aspects of the control are not being circumvented. Payments for invisibles relating to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved. Income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties is remittable, subject to supervision. Quantitative restrictions are applied to the allocation of exchange for travel; however, there are special facilities for business travel, particularly for exporters who have 128 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE been allowed to retain a percentage of their export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Foreign exchange is granted freely in reasonable amounts on an individual basis for travel abroad for education and health, and up to F 25,000 per beneficiary per month for family maintenance abroad. Appropriate foreign exchange is granted for banking commissions, patents and royalties, and specified categories of taxes. Transfers to nonresidents of current earnings from film' rentals and royalties are approved on a liberal basis; however, amounts due to U.S. film companies may be partly transferred to the United States and partly credited to special accounts, called comptes cinema and governed by special regulations. Transfers on account of membership fees, subscriptions, donations, and movements of emi- grants' funds are permitted up to specified limits. Foreign exchange is not granted to exporters and importers for insurance abroad of risks concerning persons, property, or liability in France, which may only be insured in France with French insurance companies or foreign com- panies authorized to conduct insurance business in France. Travelers, as well as residents and nonresidents living near French frontiers, may take with them out of France banknotes or coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan francs, CFA francs, or CFP francs, up to the value of F 20,000. Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports are subject to individual license. Export proceeds must be collected within 90 days from arrival of the goods at destination and in the manner set forth in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). The procedure is simplified for exports not ex- ceeding F 200,000, with a few exceptions. Foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered within a month of the date of their receipt. The following percentages of export proceeds are, however, exempt from the surrender requirements: (a) 15 per cent of the proceeds of exports to any country, payable in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Mexican pesos, or francs from a Free Franc Account; (b) 10 per cent of the proceeds of exports paid for in any other man- ner; and (c) 6 per cent of the proceeds of exports on consignment. These retained percentages of export proceeds are kept in special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts, which are separate for each foreign currency or, for export proceeds received in francs, separate according to the designation of the nonresident franc account debited for the payment. However, EFAC accounts related to EPU countries are interchangeable with EFAC accounts related to dollar countries. 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE The retained proceeds must be used by the original exporter or supplier of the goods either for meeting incidental expenses or for certain im- ports, which are limited to raw materials, capital goods, and merchan- dise used directly by the importing firm. The Exchange Office may, on an individual basis, permit exporters to retain a percentage of export proceeds higher than indicated above; such permits are granted par- ticularly for exports that require considerable publicity expenses abroad. Authorized banks with which EFAC accounts are held have, at the end of quarterly periods, to surrender 10 per cent of unutilized balances, except for certain minimum balances. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are obliged to collect, and to surrender within a month from the date of receipt, amounts due from nonresidents in respect of services. When foreign securities are kept abroad in an account in the name of the owner, he is not obliged to surrender the annual income if it does not exceed F 10,000. Hotels and similar establishments dealing with foreign tourists are permitted to retain a percentage of exchange proceeds under conditions similar to those applicable to exporters, i.e., they may maintain EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers, as well as residents and nonresidents living near French frontiers, may bring in any amount of banknotes or coins (except gold coins) in metropolitan francs, CFA francs, or CFP francs. Capital Most outward transfers of capital require approval. Capital assets abroad belonging to or acquired by residents are not subject to repatri- ation or surrender, and their holders are permitted to reinvest them either in quoted securities in accordance with a general authorization or in other investments under individual permit. Special facilities are given to residents to subscribe to new issues abroad or to increase French par- ticipation in existing holdings abroad, particularly in publicly issued securities. New investments in France or in the French Franc Area by nonresi- dents can be given an unconditional guarantee of repatriation. Non- residents who, since September 1, 1949, have made specified invest- ments in the French Franc Area financed through the sale of U.S. dol- lars, Canadian dollars, or free Swiss francs, or through the utilization of balances on a nonresident Free Franc Account, are granted the right to 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE transfer at any time, in the currency in which the investment was made, the proceeds of the sale of these investments, including any possible capital gains. This facility can also, under a special authorization of the Exchange Office, be accorded to new foreign investments effected by residents of EPU countries through the sale of the currency of, or through French francs in a nonresident account related to, the country of residence. However, this repatriation guarantee applies only to in- vestments that are effected according to the general Exchange Office regulations, i.e.: (a) without prior authorization of the Exchange Office if the investment is made by purchasing stocks quoted on any stock exchange in France, by purchasing real estate through a notary public, or by making a loan denominated in French francs of a maximum value of F 10 million; (b) with the authorization of the Exchange Office for any other investment, especially in unquoted stocks or in a business or by making loans for amounts exceeding F 10 million. Other investments by nonresidents, namely, those made before Sep- tember 1,1949 or since then without being entitled to the facility men- tioned above, do not (except for contractual amortization) benefit from this repatriation guarantee, and the proceeds accruing from the liquida- tion of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Immovable property and French securities in France belonging to nonresidents may be transferred between residents of the same country; foreign securities held in France may be transferred between nonresidents of various countries. Banknotes Banknotes in Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Djibouti francs, Portuguese escudos, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars may be purchased by the authorized banks, without any limitation on the amount, at the rates of the market prior to the day of transaction. Banknotes in Italian lire may be purchased by authorized banks on the basis of the market rate. In both these cases, authorized banks holding an amount of banknotes higher than that needed for their transactions may sell them to other authorized banks or to the Bank of France. Other foreign bank- notes may be purchased by authorized banks from their customers at any rate and sold to other authorized banks. Authorized banks may sell banknotes to residents traveling abroad, under conditions established by an open or individual license of the Exchange Office, up to the maximum amounts that other foreign ex- change control authorities permit nonresident travelers to import. These sales take place at rates determined as indicated above. 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Changes during 1955 January 1 The proportion of export proceeds which could be used under the "equipment and raw materials procedure" to make certain imports was reduced from 10 per cent to 5 per cent. January 11 Additional items were added to the OEEC liberalization list, raising the import liberalization (on the basis of 1948 private imports) from 65 per cent to 73 per cent. Some of these commodities were, at the same time, made subject to the special, temporary, compensatory tax on imports. February 19 A general license was issued permitting residents of France holding immovable property abroad to sell it to nonresidents, provided the value was held or repatriated in accordance with the exchange control regu- lations. Another general license granted new facilities for the revenue derived from such property: it could be used to pay certain related expenses and need only be repatriated once every 12 months. April 1 Further additions to the OEEC liberalization list raised the import liberalization to 75 per cent. Some of these items were made subject to the special, temporary, compensatory tax on imports. April 20 Import certificates to be completed by importers were reintroduced for certain goods whose import from OEEC countries had been liberal- ized. Since September 26, 1953, it had been necessary to apply for an import license for these items (which was, however, granted auto- matically) . May 12 The procedure for exchanging EFAC accounts (see section on Ex- ports and Export Proceeds, above) related to certain countries for EFAC accounts related to others was simplified by no longer requiring the account holder to justify the need for the exchange. In addition, 132 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE EFAC accounts related to EPU countries could be exchanged for EFAC accounts related to dollar countries. (This facility was to expire on June 25,1955, but on June 17,1955 it was extended indefinitely.) May 15 A general notice established that all payments between Laos and Vietnam and other parts of the French Franc Area could be made freely through authorized banks or through the postal administration, sub- ject to the presentation, for statistical purposes, of evidence showing the purpose of the transfer. Imports from and exports to Laos or Viet- nam could be settled only through the accounts of authorized banks in Laos or Vietnam, according to the origin or destination of the goods. June 22, August 4, October 29 The special, temporary, compensatory tax on imports was abolished for certain items, and for others it was reduced from 15 per cent to 11 per cent or from 11 or 10 per cent to 7 per cent. August 3 The principles applied to settlements with Laos and Vietnam (see May 15, above) were applied to settlements with Cambodia. August 8 It was announced that, in accordance with an agreement signed on July 27 with Yugoslavia, 6^ per cent of payments for French imports from Yugoslavia were to be paid to a centralized account at the Bank of France to meet French financial claims on Yugoslavia. (Similar arrangements were already in operation for settlements with Poland and Rumania.) August 12 It was announced that, in accordance with an agreement signed on July 28 with Bulgaria, 7 per cent of payments for French imports from Bulgaria were to be paid to a centralized account at the Bank of France to meet French financial claims on Bulgaria. August 20 The limit below which exporters did not have to specify the author- ized bank through which a transaction would be handled was raised from F 50,000 to F 200,000, except for a few special items. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE August 22 Italian lire were quoted on the official exchange market and author- ized banks were free to carry out spot transactions in Italian lire against French francs either in the Paris or the Italian exchange mar- ket. Forward transactions in Italian lire continued to be permissible only in the Paris exchange market. Italian authorized banks and Italian lire were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. August 28 Forward transactions in Italian lire could be concluded by author- ized banks in the Italian exchange market as well as in the Paris exchange market (see August 22, above). September 1 Further items were added to the OEEC liberalization list, raising the import liberalization to 77% per cent. Some of these items were, at the same time, made subject to the special, temporary, compensatory tax on imports. November 1 The payments agreement with Mexico was terminated. Mexico was included in the dollar area in the French exchange control regulations, and the Mexican peso was added to the list of currencies considered as convertible. Nonresident Mexican Accounts were converted into Free Franc Accounts. November 2 The payments agreement with Peru was terminated. Peru was in- cluded in the dollar area in the French exchange control regulations. Nonresident Peruvian Accounts were converted into Free Franc Accounts. November 20 Further additions were made to the list of goods importable from OEEC countries without quantitative restriction under the import cer- tificate procedure (see April 20, above). 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE December 5 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, in the multilateral ex- change arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries (see August 22, above). December 15 Nonresident accounts in French francs related to Argentina were arranged in two categories: (1) Special Argentine Accounts for trans- actions permissible in the Argentine official exchange market and (2) Nonresident Argentine Accounts for transactions dealt with in the Argentine free market. Funds on Nonresident Argentine Accounts could be transferred to Special Argentine Accounts. Transfers could also be made freely between Nonresident Argentine Accounts and Non- resident Accounts related to EPU countries. December 20 It was announced that, as from January 1, 1956 and in accordance with an agreement with Rumania, the amount to be paid to the cen- tralized account out of payments for French imports from Rumania would be increased from 6 per cent to 7 per cent. December 22 The special, temporary, compensatory tax on imports was abolished for certain other items. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Deutsche Marks 4.20 = US$1. Official market rates are maintained within the limits of 1 per cent on either side of the par value. Exchange transactions are effected at uniform rates based on the par value. Authorized banks may carry out spot exchange transactions (within official rate limits) and forward exchange transactions (1) in Belgian francs, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, pounds sterling, Swiss clearing francs, and deutsche marks on a bilateral or a multilateral basis with authorized banks in any of the countries of these currencies; (2) in free Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and Canadian dollars with banks in the United States and Canada and with authorized banks in EPU countries; and (3) in other specified currencies (Portuguese escudos, Irish pounds, and South African pounds) against deutsche marks with banks in the country of the currency concerned. Authorized banks may carry out spot and forward transactions with one another and with their custo- mers in all the currencies mentioned above, as well as in Austrian schillings, Egyptian pounds, and Yugoslav dinars, against deutsche marks or any of these currencies. Administration of Control The administration of controls in Germany in respect of imports and exports of goods and services is operated by the Federal Ministry of Economics, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bundesamt fur die gewerbliche Wirtschaft) and the Land Ministries of Economics. For capital transactions, the Bank deutscher Lander is primarily the authority in charge of exchange control. Prescription of Currency In principle, foreign countries are divided, from the point of view of the prescription of currency, into two groups: the "free currency area,"2 xThe trade and exchange control regulations established by the authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany are, for the most part, applied also in the British, French, and U.S. Sectors of Berlin. The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany. 2 The "free currency area" comprises all countries with which Germany has either no payments agreement or a payments agreement requiring settlement in free U.S. dollars. 136 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC and "all other countries." Incoming payments from "all other coun- tries" may be received in any means of payment; those from the "free currency area" may be received only in freely convertible currencies, in deutsche marks debited to Freely Convertible DM Accounts (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, below), or in German banknotes or coins for payments not exceeding DM 100. Payments from several countries3 included in the "free currency area" may be received also in any means of payment, provided it is proved that payment cannot be received in convertible currency. Payments due to "all other countries" may be made in inconvertible currencies (but not in notes or coins) or in deutsche marks credited to Partly Convertible DM Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below), or may be paid in deutsche marks to persons in Germany. Pay- ments due to the "free currency area" may be made in any currency or means of payment (except foreign notes and coins) or may be paid in deutsche marks to Freely Convertible DM Accounts, Partly Converti- ble DM Accounts, or persons in Germany. Payments for goods which are purchased or produced in Argentina, Turkey, or Yugoslavia, or transfers to these countries for the purpose of investment, may be effected only through a clearing account in accordance with the relevant payments agreement. Offsetting (compensation) transactions involving any currency are permitted; however, payments due from persons in the "free currency area" cannot be offset or compensated against payments due to persons in "all other countries." Invoicing is permitted in any currency, pro- vided an applicable trade or payments agreement does not prescribe otherwise. Nonresident Accounts There are four main categories of nonresident DM account, as described below. 1. Freely Convertible DM Accounts. These accounts may be credited (a) with amounts which otherwise may be transferred abroad in freely convertible currencies; (b) with sums arising from specified exchange operations, such as transfers from abroad in freely convertible cur- rencies and purchases from nonresidents of banknotes and other means of payment in freely convertible currencies; and (c) with redeposits by 3 Afghanistan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, Mainland China, China (Taiwan), Ethiopia, Lebanon, Mongolia, Muscat and Oman, Nepal, Peru, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Thailand, Tibet, and U.S.S.R. 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC nonresidents of deutsche marks previously withdrawn from such accounts and not spent. Balances on these accounts may be remitted abroad, transferred to other nonresident accounts in Categories 1 and 2, paid to residents for all current transactions, or exchanged for any other currency. 2. Partly Convertible DM Accounts. These accounts may be credited (a) with amounts which otherwise may be transferred abroad (except payments for imports from and investments in Argentina, Turkey, or Yugoslavia); (b) with sums arising from specified exchange operations, such as transfers from abroad (except transfers under a payments agree- ment with Argentina, Turkey, or Yugoslavia), and purchases from nonresidents of foreign banknotes and other means of payment; (c) with German banknotes and coins paid in by nonresidents; and (d) with transfers from accounts in categories 1, 3, and 4. Transfers between Partly Convertible DM Accounts are entirely free. Balances on Partly Convertible DM Accounts may be used for payments in Germany (unless such payments have to be received in a freely convert- ible currency); they may also be transferred abroad by using the man- ner of payment established under payments agreements.4 3. Accounts Related to Payments Agreements (Bilateral Agreement Accounts). These accounts are in the names of authorized banks and are used for carrying out the terms of payments agreements in opera- tion with certain countries.5 Transfers between these accounts may be made freely. 4. Liberalized Capital Accounts. These accounts are maintained for the capital transactions of nonresidents. Some of the chief sources of these accounts are proceeds from the sale of German real property by foreign owners, the sale of German securities held by nonresidents, and restitution or compensation due to nonresidents for confiscation or war damage. Certain foreign debts may be repaid in deutsche marks by crediting these accounts. Transfers of Liberalized Capital Accounts from one nonresident to another are permitted freely, regardless of the account holder's country of residence. Balances on these accounts may be transferred abroad in accordance with the provisions of bilateral * The territories to which this applies are Argentina, Austria, Belgian Monetary Area, Bulgaria, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, French Franc Area, Greece, Iran, Italy, Netherlands Monetary Area (including Indonesia), Norway, Poland, Portuguese Monetary Area, Saar Area, Sterling Area, Sweden, Switzer- land, Turkey, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 5 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Ceylon, Denmark, Egypt, France, Greece, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Union of South Africa, and United Kingdom. 138 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC agreements, credited to Partly Convertible DM Accounts, or used to pay for practically all invisible transactions not directly related to mer- chandise and for specified investments in Germany. Imports and Import Payments Most imports from OEEC countries and their associated areas are free; imports from the dollar area are liberalized to a lesser extent. Over 70 per cent of imports from bilateral agreement countries are not restricted. Goods free from quantitative restriction may be imported on the basis of an import declaration only, stamped by a Land Central Bank; this declaration constitutes an automatic entitlement to clear the goods with the customs and to obtain an exchange allocation in appropriate currency. No prior control is exercised over such import transactions; however, ex post control is carried out by the Land Cen- tral Banks or the federal authorities. For imports still subject to quanti- tative limitation, an individual license is required covering both the trade and the exchange aspects of the transaction. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles, particularly those connected with or related to foreign trade, are almost entirely free of individual licensing, but are subject to certain controls. Residents are permitted to make payments to any country up to DM 200 per quarter for any purpose other than on account of import or capital transactions. Residents are permitted to take out at each crossing of the frontier DM 1,500, either in German notes or coins or by the acquisition and export of foreign currency. Transfers up to this amount for travel abroad are also permitted. For business and scientific travel as well as for study, residents are permitted to acquire and take out any required amount, if the currency in question is partly convertible. For travel for the same purposes to countries of the "free currency area," freely convertible currency is automatically allocated for a period of 60 days, up to the equivalent of DM 150 per day; higher sums may be author- ized in individual cases. Nonresident travelers leaving Germany may also take out foreign or German currency in any form up to the equivalent of DM 1,500; amounts in excess of this limit may be taken out provided their import was certified on entry into Germany. 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC Earnings from nonresident investments in Germany may, without special permission, be transferred abroad, or credited to a Liberalized Capital Account or to a Freely or Partly (according to the owner's country of residence) Convertible DM Account. Transfers of indemni- ties paid on the basis of the Supplementary Federal Law on the Com- pensation for Victims of the National Socialistic Persecution, of Sep- tember 18,1953, may be effected freely. Special arrangements are applicable to transfers of interest and amortization on account of specified German external debts, in accord- ance with the London Debt Agreement, signed February 27, 1953 and effective September 16, 1953 (see Fifth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, pages 153-54). Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters may freely conclude export contracts with foreign importers, carry through the export of commodities, and accept pay- ments in an appropriate currency. With certain exceptions, all foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered. The exporter is responsible for obtaining the export proceeds, which must be received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above). No export declaration is required for the export of goods up to a value of DM 1,000, but only an export (small consign- ment) notification serving statistical purposes. An export declaration is required for other exports, and for certain exports—mostly strategic commodities—individual licenses are required. The customs authori- ties exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Control over the receipt of export pro- ceeds is undertaken by the Bank deutscher Lander, which also under- takes the evaluation of the returns for exports exceeding DM 5,000. Exporters are permitted, subject to certain limitations, to use their export proceeds to pay the customary commissions to their agents abroad, and for payments in settlement of claims arising from defects or to cover such usual discounts or other reductions in price as may have been agreed upon subsequently. Residents are permitted to maintain foreign currency accounts with German authorized banks, but these accounts may be used only for authorized payments. In general, exports effected without payment require licenses (a "certificate of nonobjec- tion") ; certain of such exports where the proceeds usually cannot be remitted are exempt from this requirement. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC Proceeds from Invisibles Services for nonresidents do not require licenses. A special license is required for transactions relating to the sale of, or the granting of licenses for, inventions, patents, registered designs, trademarks, etc., as well as for the rendering of technical assistance through the delivery of constructional drawings, materials, and instructions for manufacture. Residents are obliged to surrender exchange proceeds from invisible transactions. Such proceeds may, however, be held on exchange accounts with German authorized banks and used within a certain period of time for authorized payments. German and foreign notes and coins may be brought or sent into Germany in unlimited amounts. Capital Foreign investments in specified fields in Germany may be effected freely through Liberalized Capital Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). Investments in other ways are permitted under individual license. Applications for permission to make capital invest- ments through the import of foreign exchange have to be made to the Land Central Banks, which submit them to an interministerial Federal Investment Commission. Outgoing transfers of nonresident capital are generally permitted under the London Debt Agreement, or under open or individual licenses. Financial institutions in Germany are permitted to receive from abroad any kind of securities through the post and to send abroad through the post and to transfer to other German banks securities owned by nonresidents. Securities payable in German currency, negoti- able on a German stock exchange, and owned by nonresidents may be sold on the basis of the stock exchange rate. The proceeds of such sales may be credited to Liberalized Capital Accounts, Bilateral Agreement Accounts, or Partly Convertible DM Accounts. Residents may not dispose of prewar German assets abroad. German residents who are prevented by the exchange control regulations in other countries from repatriating their assets held abroad are given permis- sion to sell them to resident^ authorized to make investments abroad, the parties concerned being permitted to agree among themselves as to the amount of compensation. The Land Ministries of Economics may grant authorization to resident enterprises to make the following invest- ments abroad: up to DM 250,000 to establish, purchase, or participate in, an enterprise involved in producing, processing, or delivering goods, 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC and up to DM 500,000 for any other enterprise. It is required that such investments contribute to strengthening the economic or trade relations of Germany with other countries. Investments abroad by resident firms in the fields of banking and insurance, or where the value of the intended investment exceeds the limits indicated above, are considered by the Federal Ministry of Economy and the Bank deutscher Lander. Changes during 1955 February 10 The previous arrangements under which importers of coffee f rom Brazil were required to purchase 50 per cent of their Brazilian account dollars at the official rate and 50 per cent through the free market was abolished. Payments for coffee imports from Brazil were placed on the same basis as all other imports from Brazil, i.e., 20 per cent at the official rate and 80 per cent through the free market (valid until October 1,1955). March 1 Resident travelers leaving Germany were permitted to take out freely up to DM 600 in currencies not freely convertible and up to DM 300 in German notes and coins, the German and foreign currencies together not to exceed DM 600. Previously, they could only take out DM 300 in German notes and coins. Residents traveling to any foreign country would be given an alloca- tion in appropriate foreign currency up to the equivalent of DM 1,500 per person per year. Previously, such an allocation was granted only for travel to the non-dollar area. Residents were permitted to effect transfers to countries in the "free currency area" up to the equivalent of DM 200 per person per quarter for purposes other than those of an import or capital nature. April 26 In addition to authorized foreign trade banks, other banking institu- tions were authorized to purchase, exchange, and sell foreign currencies and other means of payment used for travel purposes. May 10 Payments from China (Taiwan) and Saudi Arabia could be received in the same manner as those from countries outside the "free currency 142 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC area" in cases where the payment cannot be obtained in a currency and method appropriate to the "free currency area." The limitation that payments from Peru, Thailand, and the U.S.S.R. exceeding DM 30,000 required an individual permit from the Bank deutscher Lander was abolished. May 13 Earnings accruing from, as well as proceeds due at the time of maturity of, German securities expressed in foreign currencies and belonging to residents could now be paid. Earnings accruing from such sources were to be surrendered. May 16 Payments between Germany and the Spanish Monetary Area were to be effected through Partly Convertible DM Accounts in accordance with the payments agreement of May 16,1955, thus enabling payments to be made on a multilateral basis. May 24 Israel and Rumania were excluded from countries belonging to the "free currency area." May 28 An additional list of imports free from quantitative restriction, applicable to the dollar area, was established; the list covered 100 agri- cultural and 500 industrial products. In consequence, liberalized imports from the dollar area were increased, from 56.9 per cent to 68 per cent of all private imports in 1953. Of the 6,000 items in the com- modity classification for foreign trade statistics, 1,800 remained subject to quantitative restriction. June 1 Residents were exempted from the obligation to declare their claims against nonresidents which arose from rendering services to foreign countries. However, they were obliged to surrender exchange earnings accruing from such services. Financial institutions in Germany were permitted to send abroad through the post securities owned by nonresidents. Securities deposited by nonresidents with institutions in Germany could be transferred to 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC another institution to be held in the name of the owner or another person. Rights granted to the Land Ministries of Economics to approve investments abroad by German enterprises were modified and extended. They could approve investments abroad up to DM 250,000 in enter- prises producing, processing, or delivering goods, and up to DM 500,000 in other enterprises. Previously, the limits had been DM 100,000 and DM 200,000, respectively. June 7 Foreign exchange regulations applying to private insurance trans- actions with foreign countries were codified and supplemented. June 15 The scope of investments in Germany by nonresidents was extended by giving more liberal treatment to foreign investments effected through Liberalized Capital Accounts and with assets brought from abroad. July 23 German residents were permitted to conclude and carry through futures transactions in coffee on the Amsterdam and Rotterdam markets and in copra on the Amsterdam market. Residents were permitted to conclude with nonresidents guarantee contracts in order to secure their claims against resident and nonresi- dent debtors. July 30 A few items were added to the list of imports liberalized within the framework of OEEC. August 1 Payments between Germany and Brazil were to be effected through Partly Convertible DM Accounts in accordance with the payments agreement of July 1, 1955, thus enabling payments to be made on a multilateral basis. August 17 A further liberalization of imports within the framework of OEEC was introduced, raising the liberalization percentage from 90.1 to 91.3. 144 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC August 22 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. August 26 Foreign trade banks were authorized to rediscount abroad drafts and bills of exchange drawn in German or foreign currencies and payable abroad. Exchange due to or owned by residents in accordance with exchange control regulations could be credited to their accounts in foreign cur- rencies maintained with German authorized banks. September 1 Italian lire and certain Italian authorized banks were included, for forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, in the multi- lateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. Persons leaving Germany were permitted to take with them an amount of German or foreign banknotes and coins at each crossing of the frontier up to DM 1,500 (previously, the limitation was DM 600). No registration in travel documents was necessary, unless the sum taken out of the country exceeded DM 1,500. The full amount of foreign banknotes, instead of the previous limit of DM 300, brought back into Germany by tourists could be retained, and taken out again up to the limit of DM 1,500. September 23 The authority of foreign trade banks was extended in respect of taking over guarantees, securities, etc., related to trade transactions and foreign travel. October 1 Payments between Germany and Japan were to be effected through Partly Convertible DM Accounts or in sterling in accordance with the payments agreement of July 28, 1955, thus enabling payments to be made on a multilateral basis. Payments between Germany and Paraguay were to be effected through Partly Convertible DM Accounts in accordance with the pay- 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC ments agreement of July 25, 1955, thus enabling payments to be made on a multilateral basis. October 25 In place of various regulations, a regulation was issued which modi- fied and extended a general license permitting various transactions between residents and persons residing in the currency area of the East German mark. Forward transactions in hides were permitted on the New York for- ward market. November 3 Financial institutions in Germany were authorized to permit over- drafts on Liberalized Capital Accounts for a period of three working days (1) for the execution of payment orders of foreign financial insti- tutions or (2) for the execution of orders of foreign account holders for the purchase of domestic securities in accordance with general regulations. Holders of balances on Liberalized Capital Accounts were permitted to use them freely for a number of specified expenses in Germany. In consequence, such balances could be used for practically all payments in Germany other than those related to merchandise transactions. November 15 Foreign trade banks were authorized to invest their balances in foreign currencies held with their foreign correspondents for a period not exceeding six months. November 22 The general license to German residents in respect of forward trans- actions was extended to dealings in cotton in the forward market in Alexandria and to dealings in rubber in the forward market in New York. December 20 In addition to the possibility of crediting to Liberalized Capital Accounts nonresident funds arising from the liquidation of invest- ments in Germany, these funds could now be transferred directly 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY, FEDERAL REPUBLIC abroad through Bilateral Agreement Accounts or credited to Partly Convertible DM Accounts. The general license that permitted the direct transfer of earnings from securities was extended to earnings from any kind of nonresident investment in Germany. Prior to this, earnings that had not been covered by the general license could be transferred abroad only under special license. The import of any kind of securities by financial institutions in Germany was permitted. Securities payable in German currency, nego- tiable on a German stock exchange, and owned by nonresidents could be sold on the basis of the stock exchange rate and the proceeds from these sales could be transferred abroad directly through Bilateral Agreement Accounts or credited to Liberalized Capital Accounts or Partly Convertible DM Accounts. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rate System There is no established par value for the Greek Drachma. The official rates are Dr 29.90 buying, Dr. 30.10 selling, per US$1. The rate of the drachma in relation to other currencies is determined by the Bank of Greece on the basis of the parity relationship of each of these currencies to the U.S. dollar. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, and a Currency Committee. Con- trols are implemented and applied by the Bank of Greece and author- ized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in the currency and manner provided for by trade and pay- ments agreements, or on the basis of the origin or destination of the goods and services involved. Under the terms of most of the trade and payments agreements,1 settlements are effected through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account, or in the currency of the partner country. Imports and Import Payments One of two general import procedures is applicable to private imports, depending on the method of payment. (1) No license is neces- sary to import goods (except as mentioned under (2 ), below) from bilateral agreement countries,1 if payment is effected through the rele- vant clearing accounts, or from countries participating in EPU or from other countries (except Albania, Mainland China, and North Korea), if payment is effected through EPU. (2) An import license is required for imports from countries specified in Procurement Authorizations covering imports sponsored by the U.S. International Cooperation Administration ( ICA ); from Canada and the United States, when pay- ment is made in free dollars; and from any other country, when the method of settlement differs from that mentioned under (1), above. Payment under either import procedure may be made by opening a 1 Apart from EPU countries, Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Finland, East Germany, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 148 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE documentary credit, by cash against shipping documents, or, for some specified goods, by the acceptance of time drafts. Imports of specified luxury and a few other goods from any country are subject to special license and payment may be effected only by the opening of a documentary credit for a period not exceeding six months. Five commodities imported from Japan are subject to the same procedure. For goods imported on the basis of cash against shipping documents, a Greek importer must deposit with his bank an amount in cash equal to 15, 50, or 100 per cent of the invoice value, according to the com- modity to be imported; for certain commodities (mainly foods tuffs), a bank guarantee of 3 per cent, instead of a cash deposit, is required. Deposits and guarantees are partly or entirely forfeited if imports or payments for them are not effected as prescribed. For shipments against time drafts, a personal guarantee equivalent to 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods to be imported is required. No cash deposit or bank guarantee is required on shipments payable by letter of credit. For commodities ultimately paid for by ICA funds, importers who within ten days from the date of obtaining the import license remit to the shipper an advance payment of at least 10 per cent of the value of the goods are exempt from the additional cash deposit or bank guarantee of 10 per cent required for this category of import. After making arrange- ments for payment and upon delivery of the documents, the importer's bank issues a permit for the clearance of the goods. In the event of the failure of the importer to fulfill the conditions pre- scribed for the import or payment of the goods, a fine of up to 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods is payable. Greek importers who do not place orders with the exchange control prior to the shipment of goods may be subject to a fine of up to 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, legal entities, and public utility companies. Payments for Invisibles Payments on account of invisibles require individual licenses, but these are granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (e.g., ships and airplanes, merchandise transportation, fire, accident, and life insurance) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE amounts owed. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maxi- mum of Dr 450 in Greek banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to individual license, but most exports are free of quantitative limitation. Export proceeds have to be surrendered. An exchange tax of Dr 3 per US$1 is charged on exports of certain types of olive oil.2 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts representing payments for services must be sur- rendered. Foreign exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requirement; however, shipowners have to pay taxes, fees, etc., and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained through the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece at the official rate. Individuals may bring in a maxi- mum of Dr 450 in Greek banknotes. Capital All drachma assets of nonresidents have to be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, however, balances on such accounts may be utilized for such purposes as the purchase by a nonresident of real estate in Greece; the sale of such real estate is permitted, provided the sale proceeds are credited to a blocked account opened in the name of the nonresident seller. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687 of October 31, 1953, approved foreign investments in Greece which are expected to promote national production or otherwise contribute to the economic advancement of the country can be granted preferential treatment, but such investments are not repayable earlier than one year from the date of importation or from the time the enterprise began to operate productively. When any enterprise organized with foreign capital is granted terms more favor- able than those which had been accorded to a similar enterprise previ- ously established with foreign capital, similarly favorable terms will be extended at the request of the beneficiary to the previously estab- lished enterprise. Special guarantees are provided in case of requisition. Approved foreign capital may be repatriated at an annual rate not exceeding 10 per cent. Transfers of dividends on equity capital may 2 Exports of olive oil of all types are, however, temporarily prohibited. 150 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE not exceed 12 per cent per year, and those for payments of interest on loan capital may not exceed 10 per cent; however, annual earnings below these limits can be supplemented by earnings in excess of such limits from other years. Deviations from the general regulations can be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining prod- ucts or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term investments also are granted preferential treatment in respect of the repayment of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. Changes during 1955 January 20 The maximum amount of Greek banknotes which travelers can take with them freely when leaving or entering Greece was raised from Dr 200 to Dr 450. February 16 According to the category of import, a cash deposit equal to 15 per cent was required for all imports payable against sight drafts, with certain exceptions for which a cash deposit of 50 per cent or a bank guarantee of 3 per cent was required. The 3 per cent bank guarantee was required for payment against sight drafts for nine basic food imports. For certain commodities which could be imported against 90-day drafts, no cash deposit was required but the 3 per cent guarantee was obligatory. Where the conditions for import and payment as pre- scribed by regulations or licenses were not fulfilled, importers were made liable to forfeit the 3 per cent bank guarantee and 5 or 10 per cent of the unutilized portion of import licenses, according to whether a cash deposit of 15 per cent or of 50 per cent applied. April 1 A bilateral payments agreement with Japan came into effect. April 21 Importers of rayon yarn were obliged to purchase from Greek arti- ficial fiber factories a quantity equal to four times the amount they wished to import from abroad. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE June 28 Taxes ranging from Dr 3 to Dr 5 per US$1 were imposed on the f.o.b. foreign exchange value of exports of olive oil, according to the category of the olive oil and the kind of packing. The exchange tax was abolished on exports of olive oil fully proc- essed, or with an acidity below 1 per cent and packed in barrels or cans, or with an acidity of up to 2.5 per cent and packed in cans containing up to 5 kilograms. July 18 The list of import commodities subject to the 50 per cent cash deposit requirement was slightly modified. July 19 An exchange tax of Dr 3 per US$1 was established for exports of olive oil with an acidity below 1 per cent and packed in barrels. July 29 Certain kinds of iron and manufactured goods of plastic material were added to the list of import commodities for which a cash deposit of 50 per cent is required. September 8 Cash deposits and bank guarantees could be returned to the importer three months after the issue of the import license, upon submission by the importer of a statement to the effect that he would not make use of the license. September 16 The exchange tax of Dr 2 per US$1 on exports of cotton was abolished. October 22 A cash deposit of 100 per cent was required for the import against sight drafts of certain newly listed goods. 152 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE October 31 The requirement of domestic purchases by importers of rayon yarn (see April 21, above) expired. However, importers of rayon yarn were obliged to put down a cash deposit of 50 per cent, instead of 15 per cent as hitherto. November 26 Exports of olive oil of all types were temporarily prohibited. 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Rate System The par value is Hong Kong Dollars 5.71429 = US$1, but there is a multiple exchange rate system comprising the official rates, the free market rates, and four mixed rates (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). The official rates are those of the authorized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rates (established by agreement between the three note-issuing banks and the Hong Kong Official Exchange Fund), and the sterling-foreign currency rate in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the U.S. dollar proceeds of exports not of local origin (exceptionally, in the case of seven local commodities, a percentage of the proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate), and to most authorized non-dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to most other transactions. Exchange Control Territory The Colony of Hong Kong is a part of the Sterling Area —the Sched- uled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange control system. Administration of Control The exchange control system in Hong Kong is operated by 31 banks fully authorized to conduct exchange transactions within the frame- work of the local regulations and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are not permitted to con- clude exchange transactions at other than the official rates. Prescription of Currency All payments and receipts except those effected through the free market must be by the method and in the currency prescribed in the United Kingdom's exchange control regulations (see section on Pre- scription of Currency in the survey on the United Kingdom). In addi- tion, payments and receipts may be in Hong Kong dollars through the account of a bank established in the other country concerned. Nonresident Accounts Credits to the accounts of banks situated outside the Sterling Area, Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan require licenses; payments from these accounts, including payments for 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG exports invoiced in Hong Kong dollars to the countries of the account holders, may be made to residents of Hong Kong. Credits to the accounts of persons and firms resident on the North American continent and in the Philippine Republic require licenses; but credits to the accounts of persons and firms in other countries do not require licenses. Payments between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories require licenses; however, authorized exchange banks may make or receive such payments without license if the transaction is in respect of (1) bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area terri- tories, (2) dividends and interest payments, or (3) small bank charges. In addition, authorized exchange banks may pay Hong Kong residents for family remittances from residents of British North Borneo, Indo- China, Indonesia, Malaya, Sarawak, Singapore, and Thailand, without the requirement of an individual license, but subject to a weekly report being made by the banks. Imports and Import Payments Except for certain strategic materials and for some other items from specified countries, imports are free of import license. Exchange licenses are required, even if the importer provides his own exchange, for imports from all countries except other parts of the Sterling Area, North America, Mainland China, Indo-China, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea, the Philippine Republic, Taiwan, and Thailand. The exchange licenses are granted freely, provided payment is made in accordance with the regulations laid down in the United Kingdom (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Foreign exchange, except U.S. dol- lars, to pay for authorized imports may be obtained at the rate corre- sponding to the official rate. U.S. dollar exchange at this rate normally is authorized only for a few imports regarded as strictly essential; for other authorized imports payable in U.S. dollars, foreign exchange may be obtained in the free market. Payments for Invisibles To obtain exchange at the official rate, exchange licenses are required. These are granted to local residents for most invisible transactions on criteria similar to those applied in the United Kingdom; e.g., exchange at the official rate for travel, personal remittances, and similar purposes is limited. If exchange at the official rate is not authorized, exchange licenses can be issued upon evidence of the prior sale to an authorized exchange bank of the equivalent in U.S. dollars (which can be pur- chased on the free market). In any event, payments may be effected freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Trans- 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG fers to other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses, except that authorized exchange banks may make remittances for dividends and interest without licenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain strategic articles and of a few commodities in short supply to any destination require licenses.1 For exports to all countries other than the Sterling Area, Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan, a declaration by the exporter showing how the export proceeds will be collected must be approved by the Department of Commerce and Industry. The U.S. dollar f.o.b. proceeds of most exports originating in Main- land China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Macao, or Taiwan are freely disposable. However, portions of the U.S. dollar f.o.b. proceeds of certain exports originating in these countries must be surrendered, viz., 50 per cent for cotton yarn, 25 per cent for lead, silver (subject to prior permission), and tin, 20 per cent for copper and feathers, and 15 per cent for wood oil; the remaining percentages may be sold in the free market. The U.S. dollar proceeds of exports originating in other coun- tries must be entirely surrendered. Exchange proceeds in other cur- rencies from exports to countries other than Mainland China, the Republic of Korea, Macao, Taiwan, and the Sterling Area must be re- ceived in foreign exchange appropriate to the country of destination (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles The receipt of transfers from other parts of the Sterling Area, unless in respect of dividends or interest, requires permission. When freight and insurance on exports that have originated in Mainland China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Macao, or Taiwan, and that have been financed in U.S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in pounds sterling or Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must surrender the U.S. dollar proceeds of that freight and insurance at the official rate. The surrender of other exchange receipts from invisibles is not insisted upon. Capital Outgoing transfers of capital in currencies other than U.S. dollars may be effected at the official rate; but they require licenses, which are 1 Export licensing in Hong Kong, as in some other areas, is not related to exchange control. 156 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG granted only for approved purposes or, at the discretion of the local control, provided the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank. Transfers of capital can be effected freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars, but all transfers to and receipts from other parts of the Sterling Area require licenses, which are granted for all bona fide transactions effected between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 24,1955) (sterling per Hong Kong dollar or Hong Kong dollars per U.S. dollar) Buying Selling IB. 2 15/16d. All transactions in sterling against Hong Kong dollars. (Rates for non- dollar currencies are based on the sterling rate.) HK$5.694 Exports not originating in Mainland China, Hong Kong, Republic of Korea, Macao, and Taiwan, payable in U.S. dollars. HK$5.779 (60% at HK15.694 and 60% at Free Market Rate) Cotton yarn exports.2 HK&5.822 (86% at HKS6.694 and 76% at Free Market Rate) Lead, silver, and tin exports.2 HKS5.831 W% at HK&5.694 and 80% at Free Market Rate) Copper and feather exports.2 HK$5.839 (16% at HK$6.694 and 86% at Free Market Rate) Wood oil' exports.2 HKS5.865 (Fluctuating Free Market (approx.) Rate) All other exports. Invisibles and capital. Is. 2 27/32d. All transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling. or HK$5.776 as appropriate. A few essential imports payable in UJ3 dollars. Authorized invisibles and capi- tal. All non-dollar imports. HKS5.87 (Fluctuating Free Market (approx.) Rate) All other imports payable in U.S. dol- lars. Other invisibles and capital. 2 Originating in Mainland China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, Macao, or Taiwan, and received in U.S. dollars. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Changes during 1955 February 2 It was no longer necessary to have the approval of the Hong Kong exchange control for credits covering shipments of Chinese goods exported to Japan. March 17 Authorized banks were given permission, subject to weekly reports being made, to effect payments to Hong Kong residents for family remittances from residents of British North Borneo, Indo-China, Indo- nesia, Malaya, Sarawak, Singapore, and Thailand. Previously, such payments required the approval of the Hong Kong exchange control. March 24 The export control procedure was simplified for shipments from Hong Kong to the Transferable Account Area (i.e., to non-sterling, non-dollar countries) when paid through an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. August 25 The Italian lira was added to the list of specified currencies in the Hong Kong exchange control regulations, and became an acceptable means of payment for exports from Hong Kong to any Transferable Account country. Authorized banks were permitted to deal in Italian lire against sterling on Transferable Account. November 2 The basic travel allowance of exchange at the official rate for resi- dents (for exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong traveling in cer- tain countries was maintained unchanged at £100 per person per 12 months for the period commencing November 1,1955. (These facilities, which are cumulative for a period of three years, are also available for residents of the United Kingdom and the Colonies who have been stay- ing in Hong Kong for not less than three years.) 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is Icelandic Kronur 16.2857 = US$1. The official rates are IKr 16.26 buying, IKr 16.32 selling, per US$1. Exports of most products of the small fishing boat industry benefit from the distribution of additional local currency from a pool derived from the premium payable by certain importers. Exchange Control Territory Iceland is a part of the Sterling Area —the Scheduled Territories of the United Kingdom's exchange control system. Administration of Control The granting of import licenses, where required for goods not on the free lists, is in the hands of the Import Office, which is also responsible for the over-all administration of exchange control. The two largest Icelandic banks have the exclusive right to buy and sell foreign exchange, and determine from time to time the extent to which exchange is available to pay for imports. Prescription of Currency Payments to and receipts from certain countries in respect of speci- fied transactions must be effected in the currency and by the method laid down in the payments agreements concluded with those countries. Imports and Import Payments Regardless of other requirements, prior certification is required from an Icelandic bank that exchange is available to make payment for an import before the import can be effected. Certain imports require import and exchange licenses, which are issued in combined form; these licenses are granted on a consideration of the essentiality of the goods and the availability of exchange to pay for them. Imports are classified in five categories: (1) goods on a "free list" which may be imported without license from any source; (2) goods on another "free list" which may be imported without license from the "clearing" countries;1 (3) goods on the "conditional free list" which 1 These are listed as Czechoslovakia, Finland, East Germany, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Spain, and the U.S.S.R. 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND may be imported without license from any country, but only if an import certificate is acquired; (4) goods on the "conditional free list" which may be imported without license from a "clearing" country, but only if an import certificate is acquired; and (5) goods subject to indi- vidual license. The import certificates are acquired through the pay- ment of a premium according to the country from which the import is to be obtained: 70 per cent (plus 1 per cent fee) of the nominal value of the certificate for imports from EPU and dollar area countries and the U.S.S.R., and 35 per cent (plus 1 per cent fee) for imports from "clearing" countries, except the U.S.S.R. (See also section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below.) When import licenses for passenger automobiles are issued, a fee amounting to 35 per cent of the amount licensed must be paid in Icelandic currency. A further, temporary, license fee —amounting to up to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of pas- senger cars and delivery vans (under three tons) if imported from EPU and .dollar area countries, and to 60 per cent if imported from "clear- ing" countries—must also be paid in Icelandic currency. Payments for Invisibles All outgoing payments require licenses, which are granted only on a basis of essentiality and the availability of the required foreign exchange. At the time of issuance of exchange licenses for travel pur- poses, other than for study or medical treatment, a fee of 25 per cent of the amount involved is payable. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign banknotes and coins to a maximum of IKr 150. The export of Icelandic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Nonresidents may re-export unexpended amounts of foreign banknotes and coins that were declared on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Exchange receipts must be surrendered. Exporters of products of the small fishing boat industry, except cod- liver oil, herring, and herring products, obtain, in addition to the local currency equivalent of the exchange surrendered, a certificate nomi- nally equivalent to 45 per cent of the export proceeds for fish caught in the main fishing season (January 1-May 15), and to 50 per cent for fish <caught from May 15 until the end of the year. These certificates are, in effect, sold at fixed premiums to importers (or used by the Federation of Cooperative Societies), and they may be used to import designated less essential goods, which, when imported, are not subject to domestic price con£rols (see also section on Imports and Import Payments, 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND above). The proceeds derived from the sale of the certificates are collected in a central pool, from which a distribution is made peri- odically to exporters. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Shipowners and insurance companies are permitted to use a portion of their exchange earnings for operating purposes. The import of Icelandic banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital All foreign investments are subject to individual approval. Incoming foreign capital in the form of exchange must be surrendered. Outgoing transfers of capital require approval, which is granted only in excep- tional cases. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents are subject to registration, and all transactions or operations concerning them are sub- ject to license. The import and export of securities is also subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Changes during 1955 January 1 The percentage of the f.o.b. value of exports for which certificates are issued was reduced from 50 to 45 for fish caught in the main fishing season (January 1-May 15). November 4 The premium on special import certificates was raised from 60 per cent (plus 1 per cent fee) to 70 per cent (plus 1 per cent fee) for imports from the dollar area, EPU countries, and the U.S.S.R., and from 25 per cent (plus 1 per cent fee) to 35 per cent (plus 1 per cent fee) for imports from "clearing" countries, except the U.S.S.R. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Indian Rupees 4.76190 = US$1. Exchange trans- actions are effected at uniform rates. All transactions in foreign exchange must be conducted through the medium of authorized dealers, whose dealings with the general public must be effected as follows: in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, Pakistan rupees, and pounds sterling, at rates fixed by the Exchange Banks Association; in other currencies, at rates at or between the official buying and selling rates of the Bank of England for spot transactions and at freely determined market rates for forward transactions. Further, authorized dealers are permitted to cover their requirements of specified foreign currencies in the London market. They may also cover their permitted transactions in the speci- fied currencies against sterling or rupees, either spot or forward, with their agents in the respective countries of the specified currencies. Administration of Control Like other Sterling Area countries, India has an exchange control system similar to that in operation in the United Kingdom but adapted to suit local requirements. The administrative work and decisions on exchange control matters are handled by the Reserve Bank of India, in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Indian Govern- ment in consultation with the Reserve Bank. A great deal of routine work on exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regulations laid down by the Reserve Bank. Prescription of Currency Transactions with nonresidents are subject to the prescription of cur- rency requirements; i.e., payments to or from foreign countries must be effected in the currency prescribed by the exchange control authority, for the most part in conformity with the exchange control regulations of the United Kingdom. In general, settlements may be made by the transfer of sterling or rupees to or from accounts related to the coun- try concerned, while with some countries settlements may be made also in specified currencies.1 Exceptionally, for exports to Egypt pay- ment may be received only in Indian rupees from the accounts of Egyptian banks, and payments between India and Pakistan may be *For a list of the specified currencies, see footnote 4 in the survey on the United Kingdom. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA effected only in Indian or Pakistan rupees according to special arrange- ments between the two countries. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts consist of rupee accounts belonging to banks, or to private individuals or firms, resident outside India. Payments to the accounts of nonresident banks for imports, interest, dividends, and allowances may be made by authorized dealers without prior approval; other payments from residents to such accounts must be approved by the Reserve Bank. The nonresident accounts of foreign banks may be drawn on to pay for Indian exports and for other payments, if the amount of an individual transaction does not exceed Rs 20,000. For all other credits and debits to the accounts of banks, prior approval of the Reserve Bank must be obtained. Rupee balances of banks in other Sterling Area territories may be transferred freely from one to another. Those of banks outside the Sterling Area may be transferred freely to nonresident rupee accounts of banks within the Sterling Area. Trans- fers between rupee accounts of banks belonging to the same country or monetary area are also allowed. All other interbank transfers require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payments of dividends and interest on securities and proceeds of small checks up to certain limits. They may be debited for such items as payments for insurance premiums, income taxes, and remittances to relatives, subject to the limit of Rs 500 for each transaction. All other credits and debits require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Transfers normally are not permitted from the accounts of individuals or firms to nonresident accounts of banks belonging to the same country or monetary area, unless the items originally credited to such accounts were "currently remittable" in nature. There are also blocked accounts to which are credited capital pro- ceeds that are due to nonresidents and cannot be remitted abroad. Bal- ances on blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities. The income derived from such invest- ments may be remitted to the owner's country with the approval of the Reserve Bank. Imports and Import Payments Goods may be imported into India under either open general licenses or individual licenses. Open general licenses permit individuals or firms 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA to import the goods listed therein without quantitative limitation from the countries or monetary areas specified. There are four open general licenses, listing goods which may be imported freely from (1) all coun- tries, (2) all soft currency countries, (3) Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, and (4) Pakistan. Individual licensing can be by quotas allocated to estab- lished importers in accordance with their imports in a base period and to actual users on the basis of their current requirements or by ad hoc licensing. Currency-wise, there are two kinds of license, those for imports from soft currency countries and those for imports from hard currency countries. The licenses for hard currency countries2 are freely convertible into licenses for soft currency countries, but the con- version of the latter into the former is permissible only in certain cases, which are considered on their merits. No distinction is made between one country and another within either currency area, except that imports from South Africa are prohibited and certain imports from Pakistan are admitted on a more liberal basis than from other countries. At the beginning of each half-yearly licensing period, an announcement on import control policy is made in the form of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for established importers, actual users, and new- comers. There are also special procedures applicable to capital goods, heavy electrical plant, and goods imported to fulfill government con- tracts and irrigation projects. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is re- leased by authorized banks on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license. The license holder may effect payments by opening letters of credit or by making remittances against sight drafts. Advance remittances in payment of imports before shipping documents are received are not normally permitted; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufacturers, the Reserve Bank grants special authorization for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Payments for Invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. How- ever, except for travel, insurance, and a few other items, foreign ex- change is granted freely for such payments, especially for expenses inci- dental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in foreign currency to residents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; 2 These are Canada and American Account countries. 164 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA but Indian residents are prohibited from taking out life insurance poli- cies in foreign currencies. There are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, dividends, and interest to beneficiary owners permanently resident in any country out- side India. Foreign employees are permitted to make reasonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums or other expenses, and for the support of their families. For Sterling Area nationals, other than nationals of Pakistan, authorized dealers may allow such remit- tances by the principal member of a family up to a maximum of £150 per month, in the currency of any Sterling Area country. Nationals of Pakistan are allowed to remit up to Rs 50 per month for the support of their dependents in Pakistan. Each application from non-Sterling Area nationals is considered on its own merits and facilities are provided for the remittance of savings that the applicant may reasonably be ex- pected to make. Foreign exchange facilities are granted for business travel and educa- tion abroad according to a scale of allowances fixed for each country. Foreign exchange normally is not granted for travel to American Account countries, other than for purposes of business, health, and edu- cation. Special provisions govern the granting of exchange for travel connected with medical treatment, visits to hard currency countries being subject to certain restrictions. A basic ration of £750 per adult and £375 per child, plus allowances for return fares, is available during a period of two years ending December 31,1956 to all persons resident in India for personal trips to soft currency areas other than neighboring countries; for neighboring countries (except Pakistan and Afghan- istan), a special allowance of Rs 3,000 per adult and Rs 1,500 per child, plus return fares, is available for the same period. Persons leaving India, except those going to Pakistan, Afghanistan, and the Portuguese territories in India, may take out Indian and foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding a total value of Rs 270 per month. Persons leaving for Pakistan may take out not more than Rs 50 per day in Indian notes and coins and another PRs 100 in Pak- istan notes and coins. Persons leaving for Afghanistan may take out Afghan currency without limit and Rs 50 per day in Indian notes and coins. Persons leaving for the Portuguese territories in India are not allowed to take out any currency notes or coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of certain commodities is controlled by the Chief Con- troller of Imports and Exports of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus- 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA try, and may be effected only under an open general license or a special license. Goods on open general license are not subject to quantitative restriction and may be exported to any destination unless the open gen- eral license is valid only for the dollar area or for Pakistan. Controlled exports not under open general license may be licensed either freely or under global quotas. The export of goods is permitted only if the exporter makes a decla- ration on the prescribed form to the Collector of Customs that foreign exchange representing the full export value of the goods has been or will be disposed of in a manner and within the period specified by the Reserve Bank. The currencies in which the export proceeds may be received are prescribed (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles in U.S. dollars and Philippine pesos must be surrendered. All other receipts may be retained, but their dis- posal is subject to license. General permission has been granted by the Reserve Bank for any person to bring or send into India without limit Indian currency and banknotes from any foreign country, except from Pakistan, Afghan- istan, and Burma, where special limitations apply. With the exception of Bank of England notes, which are limited to £10 per person, foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding duly certified declaration forms may sell the relevant currency notes to any money-changer or authorized dealer in foreign exchange. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it forms part of an investment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government; in such cases, applications have to be made to the Re- serve Bank, which refers them to the Indian Government. Exchange receipts from approved foreign capital investment and from capital in Philippine pesos or U.S. dollars must be surrendered; all other exchange may be retained but its disposal requires a license. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment as Indian enter- prises. Repatriation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and of capital invested in India by residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, is freely authorized. 166 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by resi- dents of other countries may be repatriated at any time, including cap- ital appreciation on the original investment. The proceeds from liqui- dated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) who emi- grate to a Sterling Area country may transfer their assets in full at the time of emigration. Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) who emigrate to a country outside the Sterling Area may trans- fer up to Rs 75,000 for emigration to the dollar area and up to Rs 125,000 for emigration to any other country. Any remaining assets are blocked. Sterling Area nationals who are temporarily resident but not domiciled in India are permitted to repatriate their assets, including capital investments, to any Sterling Area country at the time of their repatriation. Sterling Area nationals who emigrate from India to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are permitted remittance facilities on the same scale as in the United Kingdom. Other nationals who are resi- dent but not domiciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the sale proceeds of their investments, subject to an over-all limit of Rs 125,000 per holder, pro- vided any shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their cur- rent remittable assets in India. Any amount exceeding that authorized for free transfer is blocked. There are no restrictions on the import into India of domestic or foreign securities. Domestic dealings in rupee securities are not subject to any restrictions. Persons resident in India may deal in the shares of sterling companies which are operating exclusively in India and which maintain two registers, one in India and the other in the United King- dom, provided payment is made in rupees and the shares are on the Indian register. The export of securities and their transfer to non- residents require approval. Persons resident in India who become owners of foreign securities are permitted to hold them, provided they have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange control regulations. The sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities requires approval. Changes during 1955 January 1 Import policy for the first half of 1955 came into effect. It provided for the extension of more liberal import licensing and some relaxation 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA of restrictions on essential imports from the dollar area. Import quotas for certain items were reduced, with a view to protecting domestic industry. Basic travel allowances for two years were increased to £750 per adult and £375 per child (previously, £600 per adult and £300 per child) for travel to soft currency countries other than neighboring coun- tries, and to Rs 3,000 per adult and Rs 1,500 per child (previously, Rs 2,000 per adult and Rs 1,000 per child) for travel to neighboring countries (except Pakistan and Afghanistan). March 5 Import quotas for certain items were increased. May 2 Persons resident in Portuguese territories in India were treated as nonresidents for the purposes of exchange control. June 15 Authorized dealers were permitted to deal in foreign currencies other than U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, and Pakistan rupees, at rates determined by market conditions, but all spot trans- actions had to be effected at or between the official buying and selling rates of the Bank of England. Previously, such transactions had to be effected at rates fixed by the Exchange Banks Association. June 29 Import policy for July-December 1955 was announced. Although the basic structure of the policy remained almost unchanged, quotas were increased for items needed for Indian industries, as well as for con- sumer goods not adequately supplied by domestic industries, and were reduced for items of which rising domestic production was able to meet a larger portion of demand. For 55 items, either quotas were increased for dollar imports or a portion of soft currency licenses could be made valid for imports from the dollar area. Eighteen new items were thrown open to actual users and the scope of the newcomer category was en- larged (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). An important concession was made to the small importer by lowering the minimum value of a license to Rs 500. For the benefit of established importers, the base period for the determination of quotas was extended to include 1953-54 for 92 items. 168 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA July? General permission was granted for the transfer of Indian securities to persons resident in Nepal. The export of such securities to Nepal would, however, be subject to license. August 22 The Italian lira was included in the list of specified currencies, and became a permissible means of payment between the Sterling Area and the Italian Monetary Area. August 26 The settling-in allowance for Indian nationals (and persons domi- ciled in India) emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area was raised to Rs 75,000 (US$15,750) for emigration to the dollar area and to Rs 125,000 (US$26,250) for emigration to any other country outside the Sterling Area. Non-Sterling Area nationals retiring to their own countries were allowed to transfer up to Rs 125,000 in addition to currently remittable assets. Allowances for businessmen visiting American Account countries and for students or trainees going to these countries for education or train- ing were raised. Authorized dealers were permitted to approve applications for pay- ment of individual subscriptions to foreign magazines and periodicals for any period (including life subscriptions) desired by the applicant. September 30 New open general licenses for imports were issued, with some changes from the previous licenses. The new licenses were valid for 1 year, with the exception of the license for imports from Pakistan, which was valid for 11 months. October 25 All operations on the nonresident accounts of persons or firms, and on those of banks, resident in the Portuguese territories in India were made subject to the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India. 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA November 10 A ban was placed on the taking out of Indian currency notes by travelers to the Portuguese territories in India. November 25 Travelers to Pakistan were allowed to take with them Pakistan cur- rency notes and coins up to PRs 100 per person per day (previously, the limit was PRs 50). The limit on Indian currency notes and coins that could be taken to Pakistan remained unchanged at Rs 50 per person per day. December 30 Import policy for the first half of 1956 was announced. Quotas were reduced for items the domestic production of which had been rising and were increased for machinery and raw materials. In particular, special provision was made for the requirements of small-scale industries. In a few cases, soft currency licenses would be validated to a certain extent to allow imports from dollar countries of quality goods at competitive prices. The base period was extended to include 1954-55 for 135 items. Caustic soda and sodium bicarbonate were added to the list of items the import of which was to be made through officially determined channels. A few minor changes were made in the open general licenses. 170 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Indonesian Rupiah. The middle rate is Rp 11.40 per US$1, the official rates being Rp 11.355 buying, Rp 11.475 selling, per US$1. Exporters of certain products receive premiums of 5 or 10 per cent of the f .o.b. export proceeds. Most imports are subject to an additional import levy (TPI) of 50 per cent, 100 per cent, 200 per cent, or 400 per cent of the c. & f. value of the import, according to its nature. Payments for invisibles of a nontrade, non- personal nature are subject to a tax (TPT certificate) of 66% per cent; and there is an additional import levy (TPI) of 33% per cent on the import of foreign securities. In addition, the Foreign Exchange Institute collects a fee of % of 1 per cent and a statistical tax of ^4 of 1 per cent on all imports and exports. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Foreign Exchange Institute (which is under the direction of the Bank Indonesia), on whose behalf combined import and exchange licenses are issued by the Bureau for Import-Exchange Licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Bureau for Exports. Control is actually managed by the Bank Indonesia, the commercial banks authorized for this purpose, and the customs. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized ex- change banks and in the currency stipulated on the license. Payments to and from OEEC countries can be settled in Netherlands guilders through Indonesia's account with the Netherlands Bank. Payments to and receipts from South American countries are also settled largely through that account. By arrangement with the governments concerned, Indonesia obtains reimbursement of U.S. dollars from the Netherlands, and also from Singapore and Malaya, for Indonesian goods re-exported by those countries to the dollar area. Payments to Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, East Germany, Hungary, Japan, Mexico, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia, with which Indonesia has payments agreements, are settled through special clearing accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two classes of nonresident account, as described in the fol- lowing paragraphs. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA 1. Accounts of foreign banks. Balances that have been created by transferring foreign currency to Indonesia are freely convertible into the same currency and may be transferred freely to accounts of nonresi- dent banks of the same monetary area. 2. All other nonresident accounts. The opening of these accounts and all entries require permission from the Foreign Exchange Institute; these accounts are designated as Capital Accounts or Income Accounts, transfers from the former to the latter not being allowed For non- resident accounts of private persons, the authorized exchange banks have been given permission to make routine personal payments in Indo- nesia and yearly transfers up to a maximum of Rp 25,000 in the cur- rency of the nonresident out of his current income. The granting of licenses for remittances to the debit of Capital Accounts, viz., capital remittances and remittances of inheritances, has been suspended since January 1,1954. However, in cases of destitution, transfers to the debit of Capital Accounts may be permitted up to limited amounts at the discretion of the Foreign Exchange Institute. Imports and Import Payments Business establishments wishing to import must obtain the official recognition of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Each nonnational importer (other than those classified as industrial or horticultural and importing goods solely for their own use) is required to deposit Rp 5 million with the Foreign Exchange Fund.1 In order to apply for a combined import and exchange license, the importer must obtain a statement from an authorized bank showing that he has paid to the bank (1) an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the rupiah equivalent at the official selling rate of exchange and (2) the appropriate additional import levy (TPI—see below); nonnationals who have deposited Rp 5 million may use this sum to pay these advance deposits. The combined import and exchange license enables the import to be effected and the foreign exchange specified on the license (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above) to be obtained from an authorized exchange bank. The additional import levy referred to under (2) above is paid by the importer through the purchase of a TPI certificate from his bank at the time he applies for the import-exchange license. These pur- chases are made in rupiah, at a percentage of the rupiah equivalent of the nominal c. & f. value of the import (insurance has to be covered 1 Effective February 1, 1956, a deposit of Rp 500,000 is required from national importers. 172 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA with insurance companies in Indonesia), converted at the official bank selling rate. The percentage depends on the commodity to be imported: for Category I (essentials, except rice, cotton weaving yarns, raw cot- ton, and certain other items), 50 per cent; for Category II (semi- essentials), 100 per cent; for Category III (luxuries), 200 per cent; and for Category IV (extreme luxuries), 400 per cent. The amounts received from the sale of TPI certificates are transferred weekly for the account of the Foreign Exchange Fund. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles are subject to special licenses from the Foreign Exchange Institute, although for items that represent the current income of individuals abroad and for such items as rents and dividends, foreign exchange is granted freely up to certain limits in accordance with general licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Insti- tute to the authorized banks. A 66% per cent tax (TPT) is payable on transfers of foreign exchange for most invisibles not directly related to the movement of goods or to private remittances of a personal nature. To foreign nationals resident in Indonesia, foreign exchange up to 20 per cent of the remitter's gross taxable salary is supplied for private remittances, such as the maintenance of families abroad, children's educational expenses, and the remittance of savings, with an annual over-all ceiling of Rp 36,000 per remitter for those in independent pro- fessions and of Rp 48,000 for employed persons. Payments for life insurance premiums, annuities, and similar items are limited to Rp 300 per month. For such items as advertising, film rentals, and charitable remittances, exchange is granted at the discretion of the Foreign Exchange Institute, on individual application. Foreign ex- change is not made available to pay insurance premiums on import freight. The export of Indonesian and foreign banknotes and coin is pro- hibited, but residents going abroad are provided with small amounts of foreign banknotes to meet traveling expenses. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Exporters (with the exception of those oil companies to which special arrangements apply) are required to surrender to an authorized bank in Indonesia all foreign exchange to which they become entitled. Exports must, as a rule, be financed by irrevocable bank credits, and the drafts drawn on such credits must be sight drafts or short-term drafts. Exports may not be invoiced in rupiah, but must be invoiced in a currency acceptable to the Bureau for 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Exports. There are no general limitations as to the destination of exports, but the Bureau for Exports will refuse export licenses if, for example, the shipment should not conform to existing trade agree- ments. Exports of high-grade rubber, estate coffee, and tea to Singa- pore and other Malayan ports are prohibited. Exporters of certain local Indonesian products receive export premi- ums calculated on the total f.o.b. export proceeds surrendered, as fol- lows: 5 per cent for pepper exports and 10 per cent for other local products except copra, coffee, palm products, petroleum, tin, leaf tobacco, sugar, and rubber.2 Proceeds from Invisibles Residents are required to surrender to an authorized bank in Indo- nesia all foreign exchange to which they become entitled. Foreign nationals resident in Indonesia may retain, in the currency of the country of their nationality, any income that does not arise from foreign trade. The import of Indonesian banknotes and coin is prohibited. Foreign banknotes and coin may be imported on the condition that they are surrendered to the Bank Indonesia at the official buying rate. Visitors planning to stay in Indonesia no longer than three months may, after a record has been made, retain their foreign currency, sell it to an authorized bank, or take it with them on departure. They may exchange only the following currencies, and only with an authorized bank: (1) U.S. banknotes (in denominations not exceeding $50) and U.S. travelers checks; (2) sterling banknotes (in denominations not exceed- ing £1) and sterling travelers checks (payable outside the Sterling A r e a ); and (3) Malayan banknotes (in denominations not exceeding $M 10). After 90 days, the visitor intending to re-export his foreign currency must apply for an extension of his permit. Capital There are no limitations on the remittance into Indonesia by non- residents of capital which, if it were in the form of foreign exchange, would have to be surrendered in accordance with the regulations. Per- sons who offer to an authorized bank officially quoted foreign currency on account of capital acknowledged in a written statement by the Foreign Exchange Institute to be a direct investment receive, if they 2 The premium was raised to 15 per cent for exports of kapok, effective March 10, 1956, and to 25 per cent for exports of other fibers, effective March 1, 1956. 174 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA stay in Indonesia, a guarantee in the form of an exchange certificate entitling the holder to repurchase the foreign exchange sold. Foreign investments in companies operating in Indonesia have been classified as "active" or "passive" investments as of December 27, 1949. The "active" group includes investments in companies owned by corporate bodies that were registered abroad as of that date, as well as investments in limited liability companies which, although registered in Indonesia, were owned by one or by a few foreigners residing abroad. The "passive" group includes investments that do not fulfill these requirements. Profits on "active" investments may be transferred abroad in the fol- lowing way: After having paid its corporation tax (ranging from 40 per cent to 52^/2 per cent of gross profits), the company has to deposit 40 per cent of the remaining 60 to 47^> per cent of gross profits into an account in its name with the Bank Indonesia (reserved profits). The remaining 60 per cent of net profits may then be transferred abroad, subject to payment of the 66% per cent TPT (see section on Pay- ments for Invisibles, above). The 40 per cent of reserved profits may be used for financing new capital equipment and for some other pur- poses, to be decided upon by the Bank Indonesia. No transfer of profits on "passive" investments is allowed; however, a transfer of dividends may be allowed upon individual application —made in accordance with a decision of a general shareholders7 meeting of the company concerned —but not more than 40 per cent of gross profits or more than 30 per cent of the company's paid-up capital may be transferred. Such transfer of dividends is also subject to the 66% per cent TPT. Foreign investments effected after December 27, 1949 in companies operating in Indonesia are, generally speaking, distinguished as (1) investments which are additional to already classified "active" and "passive" investments and (2) totally new investments. The former group is subject to the same regulations as investments classified as "active" or "passive." Totally new investments are subject to regu- lations which are agreed upon, from case to case, between the authori- ties and the interested parties, pending the promulgation of a Foreign Investment Law. For instance, transfers of profits by foreign com- panies that have been established in Indonesia in 1954 or thereafter are generally exempt from payment of the 66% per cent TPT. Residents are required to surrender exchange from capital, and approval is not normally given to them for capital payments abroad. Residents may trade in the Djakarta market in registered foreign 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA securities.8 Residents may also trade in unregistered securities, pro- vided a nonresident does not benefit thereby, directly or indirectly. Nonresidents are permitted to trade in specified domestic securities, provided the proceeds of any sale are credited to a nonresident Capital Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above); they may use funds from nonresident accounts to purchase specified domestic securi- ties, and may export securities so purchased to the Netherlands or to the nonresident's country of residence within 90 days of purchase, on condition that if the security is reimported or not exported within the time limit it shall be dealt with only with approval of the Foreign Ex- change Institute. The import of foreign securities into Indonesia is subject to license, the issue of which is subject to an additional import levy (TPI) of 33% per cent of the current domestic market value of the security. The proceeds of the tax are payable to the Foreign Ex- change Fund. 3 The term "securities" includes registered bonds and shares, obligations, bank mortgages, profit-sharing certificates, and similar securities, coupons, and dividend warrants. 176 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (rupiah per U.S. dollar) Buying 11.355 (Official Rate) Exports of nonnative products and of some local Indonesian products, e.g., copra, coffee, palm products, tobacco, sugar, smallholders' rubber. Invisibles. Capital. 11.923 (Official Rate plus 5% Export Premium) Exports of pepper. 12.491 (Official Rate plus 10% Export Premium) Exports of other products. Indonesian local Setting 11.475 (Official Rate) Certain imports exempt from TPI sys- tem. Authorized invisibles (other than freight on imports) directly related to movements of goods. Remittances of a personal nature. 17.213 4 (Official Rate plus 50% TPI) Imports of Category I goods. 19.125 (Official Rate plus 66%% Tax) Authorized invisibles and capital not directly related to movements of goods or to remittances of a personal nature. 22.950 4 (Official Rate plus 100% TPI) Imports of Category II goods. 34.425 4 (Official Rate plus 200% TPI) Imports of Category III goods. 57.375 * (Official Rate plus 400% TPI) Imports of Category IV goods. Changes during 1955 February 11 "Inducement" certificates were no longer to be issued for rubber exports. February 19 The issue of licenses to import securities became subject to the pay- ment of an additional import levy (TPI) of 33% per cent of the current domestic market value of the security. 4 These rates constitute the effective rates which result from adding to the official selling rate the cost of the appropriate TPI certificate required in connec- tion with the foreign payment. 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA February 25 Importers of textile goods, other than those imported through the Supply Institute, were required to surrender a textile import certificate (BIT) to obtain an import license. BITs were issued by the Bank Indonesia and sold at auction. (This system was, however, abolished on September 1.) March 29 Applications for import licenses stamped "Credit D" were required to be accompanied by evidence that 25 per cent of the c. & f. value of the import had been deposited with the Bank Indonesia for the credit of the Foreign Exchange Fund. This levy was required in addition to any TPI or advance deposit requirements. (The "Credit D" regula- tion was, however, abolished on July 21.) May 2 Ceilings for remittances of invisibles for 1955 were set as follows: for private remittances by individuals, Rp 36,000 per year for those in independent professions and Rp 48,000 for employed persons; for life insurance, annuities, and similar payments, Rp 300 per month. Other- wise, former limits continued. June 1 The "inducement" certificate system (see Sixth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, pages 189-90) was abolished. July 21 Importers were required to purchase provisional import certificates (BIS) for various percentages of the c. & f. value of the import as fol- lows: for capital goods in Category A, 25 per cent; for other goods in Category A and goods in Category B.I, 50 per cent; for goods in Category C, 100 per cent. Imports of certain essentials and those liable to the BIT system (see February 25, above) were exempted from BIS's. (This system was, however, abolished on September 1.) The "Credit D" regulations were abolished. September 1 The import and exchange system was considerably revised. The existing import categories, the additional import levy (TPI), the textile 178 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA import certificate (BIT), the provisional import certificate (BIS), and the advance deposit systems were abolished. Compensation, barter, and parallel transactions, imports through the Supply Institute, and imports for which official exchange was not provided were prohibited. New import categories were established, as follows: Category I, essentials; Category II, semiessentials; Category III, luxuries; and Category IV, extreme luxuries. A new system of additional import levies (TPFs) was established on a basis similar to the old TPI system, but the levies were set at 50 per cent of the c. & f. value of imports in Category I, and at 100 per cent for imports in Category II. TPFs for imports of goods in Categories III and IV were to be sold at auction, with the Monetary Board fixing reserve prices (but see October 15, below). Import licenses were to be issued to approved importers only upon proof that the full local currency equivalent of the c. & f. value of the import had been deposited with an authorized bank. In the case of approved non- national importers, the amount of the advance deposit could be debited against the deposit of Rp 5 million required of such importers. The Central Bureau of Imports and the Supply Institute were abolished and their functions were taken over by the Bureau of Foreign Exchange and Trade (BDP), a newly established department of the Foreign Exchange Institute. September 27 Nonnational importers were allowed to debit Amounts payable for TPFs against their deposit of Rp 5 million. Also, nonnationals classi- fied as industrial or horticultural importers and who imported goods solely for their own use were exempted from the requirement to deposit Rp 5 million but remained liable for the advance deposits, etc., to which national importers were subject. October 14 Imports of cotton weaving yarns and raw cotton were exempted from the requirements of the TPI system. October 15 It was announced that the introduction of the auction system for TPFs for imports in Categories III and IV (see September 1, above) would be postponed; and the rates for TPFs for Categories III and IV were fixed at 200 per cent and 400 per cent, respectively. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA October 24 Premiums were granted to exporters of certain Indonesian products. The premiums were based on the f.o.b. export value in rupiah and were set at 10 per cent for all local products except pepper (for which the premium is 5 per cent) and copra, coffee, palm oil and palm kernels, petroleum, tin, leaf tobacco, sugar, and rubber. 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Iranian Rials 32.25 = US$1. Most commercial trans- actions are classified in Category I and take place at rates fixed by the Bank Melli Iran: Rls 75.00 buying, Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. In addition, there are charges on the invoiced amount of all imported goods of y% of 1 per cent for sanitary services, and of 1/10 of 1 per cent under the law on encouragement of exports. The effective selling rate for Category II imports (about 3 per cent of total imports) equals the official selling rate (Rls 32.50 per US$1) plus the rate for exchange certificates. These certificates are issued to exporters of Category II commodities when they surrender foreign exchange at the official buying rate; they are negotiable in a free market for such certificates. On December 31, 1955, the (fluctuating) rate for exchange certificates was Rls 46.00, resulting in effective rates for Category II transactions of Rls 78.00 buying, Rls 78.50 selling, per US$1.1 Purchases and sales of noncommercial exchange on private account also take place at the rates fixed by the Bank Melli Iran for Category I transactions. A rate of Rls 41.00 per US$1 is used to pay the rial equivalent of dollar exchange provided by the U.S. Point Four Program to Iranian students. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control Exchange control is vested in the Exchange Control Committee, com- posed of representatives from the Ministry of National Economy, the Ministry of Finance, and the Bank Melli Iran. Import licenses are issued by the customs authorities. Exchange licenses are issued by the Exchange Control Committee. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through authorized banks. The Ministry of National Econ- omy determines the classification of imported and exported com- modities. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be settled in specified currencies. Trans- fers to the dollar area are made in U.S. dollars. The free Swiss franc is payable vis-a-vis Switzerland. 1 However, in January 1956 the rates for Category II transactions became Rls 75.00 buying, Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1, i.e., the same as for Category I transactions, and in March 1956 separate rates for Category II transactions were eliminated. 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Transactions with countries with which Iran has payments or clear- ing agreements must be conducted in the currencies specified in the agreements: U.S. dollar accounts are used for transactions under the agreements with the Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, and Italy; the Swiss franc is specified in the agreements with Czechoslo- vakia and Poland; and the French franc is used in the agreement with France. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are freely permitted to maintain accounts, in rials as well as in foreign currencies, with the authorized banks. Rial accounts may be used only to effect payments in Iran. Foreign currency accounts may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks. Imports and Import Payments Imports are classified in two categories; each commodity in a cate- gory receives a quota established in rials. In addition, there is a list of prohibited imports. The Ministry of National Economy decides both the quota and the prohibition regulations. Under the import regula- tions, if the quota limits should prove to be inadequate, they may be raised by the Ministry of National Economy, taking into account the availability of foreign exchange and the need for protecting domestic industries. Under a general license, authorized banks may make pay- ments for nonprohibited imports, provided the Ministry of National Economy has not announced that the quota of the import commodity concerned is filled. Import licenses, which are required to clear goods through customs, are issued automatically by the customs authorities upon presentation of documents indicating that payment for these goods has been or will be effected through an authorized bank. In addition, the customs authorities check whether the import is authorized (i.e., not prohibited) and under which category the import falls. Exchange to pay for Category II imports is obtained by the importer when he delivers to an authorized bank a valid exchange certificate. The importer may acquire such a certificate by purchasing it in a free market or by surrendering exchange proceeds from Category II exports. No quotas are set for commodities imported under state monopoly, such as sugar, silkworm eggs, tobacco, cigarette paper, and railway equipment. Special permits may be issued to private traders or insti- tutions to import these commodities. 182 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Persons holding "own exchange" are permitted to utilize the exchange for imports in Category I only, provided they pay Rls 1.50 per US$1 of the import value to the authorized bank. Imports effected with "own exchange" should fall within the quotas. Imports of precious metals, such as silver, gold, and platinum, are permitted, provided no exchange is transferred therefor; in such cases, an import license is not required. Agreements concluded between private merchants or commercial firms in Iran with private concerns abroad for the exchange of per- mitted products may be approved by the Ministry of National Econ- omy upon submission of a detailed list of the goods to be exported and imported. Imports under private barter arrangements from countries whose currencies are not purchased by the Bank Melli are authorized, provided the importer pays Rls 1.50 per US$1 of the import value to an authorized bank. Imports of Category II commodities under barter are approved upon submission of evidence that a corresponding amount of Category II exports has been received in the other country. The prohibited list and the quota regulations are applicable to imports under barter. Payments for Invisibles All payments for noncommercial purposes require licenses issued by the Exchange Control Committee. The Committee determines the rate at which the exchange may be purchased. Licenses are issued mainly for medical treatment and living expenses abroad and for expenses of Iranian students studying abroad. Most students obtain their foreign exchange at the noncommercial rate. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian imports, but for imports covered by documentary credits, the insurance must be taken out in Iran and the exchange granted used for this purpose. For imports made against sight drafts, however, the c.i.f. value of the goods may be transferred to the exporter abroad. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insurance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Residents going abroad as tourists may acquire licenses to purchase exchange at the Rls 76.50 rate. Travelers may take Rls 2,000 in Iranian banknotes with them when going abroad. Iranian pilgrims to Iraq, however, may take Rls 3,600 in Iranian banknotes with them. Travelers of Iranian nationality may export foreign currency as authorized by the Exchange Control Committee. Nonresident travelers may not 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of some commodities, mainly wheat, barley, and rice, are prohibited except under license. Nonprohibited export commodities are classified in two categories. Exporters of commodities in Category I receive, for their export pro- ceeds, the rial equivalent at a fixed rate of Rls 75.00 per US$1. Exporters of goods in Category II receive the rial equivalent at the Rls 32,00 rate plus exchange certificates for the export value. Within their one-month validity period, these exchange certificates, which entitle the holder to purchase exchange to pay for Category II imports, may either be used by the exporter or be sold in a free market. Export receipts, up to the amount of the export value as appraised by the customs authorities, must be offered for sale to an authorized bank within six months after the export takes place. Under private clearing arrangements approved by the Ministry of National Economy, however, export proceeds need not be surrendered. Within the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), authorized banks accept export proceeds in Belgian francs, French francs, Indian rupees, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. Export proceeds in other currencies may be used by the exporter to purchase imports payable in the same currency. Re-exports are prohibited, except that goods to which 50 per cent or more of value has been added by manufacture may be re-exported, provided that foreign exchange equivalent to 150 per cent of the original landed value is obtained on reshipment. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts derived from invisibles connected with commercial transactions must be surrendered at the same rate as the related com- mercial transactions. All noncommercial foreign exchange proceeds must be surrendered at Rls 75.00 per US$1. Travelers to Iran are permitted to bring with them an unlimited amount in foreign currencies and Iranian banknotes. Travelers of Iranian nationality must surrender their foreign exchange holdings to an authorized bank within 15 days after their arrival in the country. 184 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Other travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an authorized bank at the bank's noncommercial buying rate (Rls 75.00). Capital Transfers of capital abroad require the approval of the Exchange Control Committee, which is given only in exceptional circumstances. Incoming capital must be registered and offered for sale to an author- ized bank at the noncommercial rate within three days of receipt. In accordance with a decree of December 16, 1953,2 foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activities in industry, mining, or agriculture may be repatriated, together with earnings in the form of foreign exchange and/or goods. The decree guarantees legal protection for foreign capital and provides for a committee to make recommendations on proposed investments to the Council of Ministers. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1955) (rials per U.S. dollar) Buying 32.00 (Official Rate) Selling 32.50 (Official Rate) Specially approved transactions. 41.00 75.00 Category I exports. All noncommercial exchange proceeds. Students' expenses under Point Four Program. 76.50 Category I imports. Approved non- commercial payments. Specially ap- proved medical and students' expenses. 78.00 3 (Official Rate plus Fluctuating 78.50 3 (Official Rate plus Fluctuating Certificate Rate) Certificate Rate) Category II exports. Category II imports. Note: The actual, fluctuating, certificate rate on December 31, 1955 was Rls 46.00. Changes during 1955 February 6 The fixed rates were changed from Rls 82.00 to Rls 75.00 buying, and from Rls 84.50 to Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. As a temporary measure, 2 This decree was modified slightly in 1955 by the Foreign Investment Protec- tion Act. 3 See footnote 1, above. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN however, and until the existing holdings of exchange certificates by authorized banks were utilized, importers of Category I commodities were required to procure the required exchange 50 per cent at the new selling rate and 50 per cent at Rls 82.50. The new rates applied also to noncommercial transactions previously effected at rates of Rls 78.00 buying, Rls 80.00 selling, per US$1. Exchange for approved medical and students' expenses was granted at the new rate, while tourists and others had to procure their exchange 50 per cent at Rls 76.50 and 50 per cent at Rls 82.50. March The advance deposits required for opening documentary credits abroad for Iranian importers were reduced for Category II imports from 60 per cent to 40 per cent at the official selling rate. April 23 The import program for the Iranian year beginning March 22, 1955 was published. In addition to general regulations applicable to imports and exports, it contained lists of import quotas and of prohibited im- ports. Separate categories, with different exchange rates, for imports and exports were abolished, but Category II imports as listed in the previous year's import program could continue to be imported with exchange obtained at freely fluctuating market rates from exporters of Category II exports. May 19 The advance deposits required for opening documentary credits for Category II goods were reduced from 40 per cent to 30 per cent at the official selling rate. June 9 Under Decree No. 4610, import licenses would henceforth be issued by the customs authorities. Augusts The authorized banks' holdings of exchange certificates were fully utilized, and the temporary rate-mixing arrangement (see February 6, above) came to an end. 186 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN October 4 It was announced that no letters of credit could be opened, nor drafts received after October 5 paid, for imports into Iran from any country not having a clearing agreement with Iran, except for Category II imports made with Category II exchange certificates. October 29 The ban on import payments imposed on October 4 was removed, except for those goods whose import quotas had already been exhausted. November 19 It was announced that Iranian students abroad would no longer receive the benefit of the exchange rate of Rls 32.50 per US$1. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rate System The par value is Iraqi Dinar 1 = US$2.80. Most transactions in the official market are effected in sterling (Iraq is one of the countries of the Sterling A rea ). For certain currencies, licensed dealers are author- ized to deal on the basis of London rates; for the U.S. dollar, the Na- tional Bank of Iraq quotes an official rate at which it will sell exchange to licensed dealers to cover the excess of their dollar requirements over their purchases from customers or other banks. Administration of Control Exchange Control Law No. 18 of 1950 entrusts the Board of Admin- istration of the National Bank of Iraq with all powers and responsi- bilities in connection with exchange control. In practice, however, the Board has delegated most of its administrative authority to the Direc- torate of Foreign Exchange of the National Bank. All foreign exchange transactions must be effected through licensed dealers unless especially authorized by the Bank. Import and export licenses, where required, are issued by the Directorate General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economics. Prescription of Currency The method and currency of payment for transactions with most non-Sterling Area countries are, in general, comparable to those applied in other countries of the Sterling Area. Insofar as Iraqi exports are con- cerned, receipts must be obtained in acceptable foreign currency appro- priate to the country concerned, in sterling through an appropriate account (i.e., either American, Canadian, or Transferable), or in dinars through an appropriate dinar account of a nonresident. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are designated according to the residence of the account holder. Imports and Import Payments The import control policy aims at allowing adequate imports of all goods essential for domestic consumption and development. Imports of certain nonessentials are restricted. A small number of imports are prohibited for protective reasons; these include a variety of agricul- 188 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ tural products, and goods produced by certain newly established Iraqi industries. All imports from hard currency countries require licenses, which are granted in accordance with an annual program based on the anticipated needs of the economy. For imports from soft currency areas, both the control policy and the licensing procedure are more liberal. The licensing procedure does not apply to most imports from soft cur- rency countries (except certain listed goods for which an import license from the Directorate General of Commerce should be ob ta ined). For goods subject to license, the licensed dealer may make the exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license; for goods not subject to license, exchange is provided on application. The licensed dealers do not, of course, provide exchange for imports of goods licensed on the understanding that the importer will provide his own exchange. Payments to Cyprus require special authorization. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange granted for invisibles normally is restricted to travel, educational and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. or a c.i.f. basis, insurance premiums, and royalties on certain cinema films. Exchange is not, however, granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Exchange is provided for the transfer of interest and profits if the amounts applied for are considered reasonable. Licensed dealers are permitted to transfer up to ID 50 per month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resident in Iraq, provided the remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income. For amounts exceeding this limit, it is necessary to refer to the exchange control authority. For residents traveling abroad, there is a basic allowance of ID 100 per person per month for not more than three months in any one year. Travelers may take out ID 15 in Iraqi cur- rency notes or the equivalent of ID 25 in foreign currency. Pilgrims to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in foreign exchange, including up to ID 40 in the form of notes and coin. Exchange to meet the costs of business travel is subject to administra- tive approval. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of essential goods in short supply require licenses. Specified exports (such as certain kinds of livestock, certain foodstuffs in short 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ supply, cereals and fruit, and raw materials in short supply, including cement and scrap metals) are prohibited. However, commodities on the prohibited list may be exported if specially authorized by the High Supply Committee. Generally, goods imported into Iraq may be re- exported, subject to license; however, goods imported from the hard currency area and such specified goods as cars and agricultural machin- ery may not be re-exported. Exporters must declare their exports to ensure that foreign exchange proceeds are received and surrendered. However, foreign exchange proceeds from exports of dates to India, Pakistan, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Persian Gulf Protectorates are exempt from the surrender requirement. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Foreign currency, including notes, may be brought into Iraq by travel- ers in unlimited amounts provided they are declared to the Iraqi customs, and the unused amount may be re-exported. Travelers other than pilgrims returning from Saudi Arabia may bring in only ID 15 in Iraqi currency notes. Capital In general, all transfers of capital abroad require exchange control approval. The transfer of capital abroad by residents is not allowed. Nonresidents may import capital freely, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer. Such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repatriation to the country of origin is permitted. Foreign investment in Iraq is permitted freely, and exchange is pro- vided for the repatriation of reasonable profits upon submission of an audited earnings statement and proof that local taxes have been paid. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to administrative checking. Payments of a capital nature which are not permitted to be trans- ferred abroad may be credited to Blocked Accounts. Balances on Blocked Accounts may be disposed of, subject to approval of the exchange control authorities. 190 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Changes during 1955 February 10 Certain items were removed from the list of prohibited imports, sup- plementing the group removed in the latter part of 1954. April 4 Import licensing requirements were abolished for 52 items when im- ported from soft currency areas. June 1 Special export declarations were no longer required for exports to be paid for through an intermediary in the United Kingdom, unless the goods were being exported to the dollar area. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Israel Pound. The official rate of exchange is L61.800 = US$1. The official rate applies to most trans- actions, but for receipts from charitable organizations a rate of I£1.500 per US$1 applies. Discount and premium arrangements are applied to Israel's transactions with Turkey and Yugoslavia: the discount rate for exports to Turkey is 30 per cent and that for exports to Yugoslavia is 13 per cent; the rates of premiums for imports from these countries, and whether or not premiums are paid for any given import, are deter- mined by the Israel authorities on a case-by-case basis. A discount of 10 per cent is applied to exports to Argentina, Hungary, and Poland. Dealings through Blocked Accounts take place at unofficial rates of exchange; such accounts are available for use for certain purposes (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Subsidies ranging from I£0.300 to L61.550 per US$1 are given for specified essential imports. Administration of Control Exchange control is exercised by the Department of Foreign Ex- change of the Treasury (Ministry of Finance) under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange in cooperation with other govern- ment agencies, and is carried out by the authorized banks. The official exchange rates are published by the Bank of Israel. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Payments with coun- tries with which payments agreements are in force * are usually settled in U.S. dollars as an accounting unit, pounds sterling, or the currency of the partner country. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either as foreign currency accounts or as local currency accounts. A nonresident abroad may use his foreign currency account freely or, if in Israel, may convert it into Israel cur- rency. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: 1 Israel has payments agreements with Argentina, Bulgaria, Denmark, Finland, France, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 192 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL (1) Registered Accounts for foreign aviation, shipping, insurance, and film companies, and others; (2) Blocked Accounts, further differenti- ated into "A" and "B," according to the nature of the original trans- action giving rise to the account. Blocked Accounts are available for investment in Israel securities, the purchase of real estate, payment of property tax payable by the account holder, and tourist expenses in Israel up to I£35 per day for the account holder and a like amount for each member of his family if the account has been held for at least six months. Blocked Accounts are presently opened only for the holding of funds derived from former investments; other nontransferable funds are credited to Registered Accounts, which may be used for the same purposes as Blocked Accounts, but only with special approval. Imports and Import Payments All imports require licenses. Certain of these licenses are issued on the understanding that no official exchange will be granted to pay for the imports. Exchange is automatically granted for other licensed imports. Payments for all authorized imports are effected at the official rate. Subsidies on certain imports, ranging from I£0.300 to I£1.550 per US$1, are paid at the time the exchange to pay for the import is pur- chased by the importer. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles require licenses. All authorized pay- ments are made at the official rate. The annual transfer of profits, interest, and repayment of loans to a maximum of 10 per cent of in- vested capital approved under Clause 21 of the Law for the Encourage- ment of Capital Investments (1950) is allowed. The export of Israel banknotes is prohibited. Tourists leaving Israel are permitted to repurchase through authorized dealers part of the same foreign cur- rency they previously exchanged into Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of I£36. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected and may be surrendered at the official rate of LB1.800 per US$1 or deposited in PAZAK accounts with authorized commercial banks. All foreign exchange received from abroad—except that ob- tained by semipublic institutions—if not surrendered at the official rate may be deposited in these accounts. PAZAK accounts are kept in U.S. dollars, Swiss francs, or pounds sterling, if the receipts are in one of those currencies; receipts in other currencies may be converted into 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL and held in sterling. The use of these accounts requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Certain industries are permitted to keep all or part of their export proceeds in PAMAZ accounts (another type of foreign currency account) and to use them for the purchase abroad of raw materials required for their export production. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered or kept as time deposits (PAZAK accounts—see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Foreign currency received from appeals and chari- table donations by institutions, organizations, funds, and similar bodies must be surrendered at the LE1.500 rate. However, for a period of two years after their entry into Israel, immigrants and foreign residents are exempt from surrendering their foreign currencies to the Treasury or depositing them in PAZAK accounts, and may keep such currencies in demand deposit accounts with authorized banks in Israel. Tourists visiting Israel are expected to bring with them the amounts of foreign currency that they will need during their stay. The import of Israel banknotes is prohibited. Tourists and others visiting Israel who are holders of Blocked Accounts are permitted to draw upon such accounts to the extent of I£35 per day for themselves and a like amount for each member of their families, provided they have held the account for six months or more. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital has to be surrendered at the official rate. Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of invest- ment can, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Invest- ments of March 29, 1950, which permits the repatriation of capital and transfers of earnings up to 10 per cent annually of the invested capital. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be effected, provided the total value of profits, interest, and repayment does not exceed 10 per cent of the total investment in any one year. In June 1955 an amendment to this law made the privileges more automatic and reduced taxation on new enterprises. Foreign investments effected in Israel without taking advantage of the 1950 law do not benefit from these transfer privileges. Payments that are due to nonresidents and are not permitted to be transferred abroad may be credited to Registered or Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). 194 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liquidation of foreign assets held by residents have to be surrendered or may be kept in time deposits (PAZAK accounts—see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, above). Alternatively, residents may purchase Treasury promis- sory notes in foreign currency against dollars, sterling, or Swiss francs accruing to them from legacies, gifts, life insurance policies, liquida- tion of assets abroad, or restitution payments. The notes bear interest at 5 per cent, payable semiannually, and are redeemable in 15 years, though holders may demand repayment by giving 90 days7 notice. Im- porters holding import licenses with allocation of foreign currency may use, without giving the 90 days' prior notice, the notes registered in their name for payments of the value of the foreign currency allocated to them. Payments will be effected at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of redemption or repayment. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents are not permitted. The export of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. The investment in securities quoted on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange of foreign capital in Blocked Accounts is, however, entirely free. Changes during 1955 April 1 The list of subsidized imports was amended and some subsidy rates were revised. The disagio on clearing units with Finland, Norway, and Denmark was abolished; the official rate of LB1.000 per US$1 plus the premium (or surcharge) of LB0.800 per US$1 was to apply to the conversion of these clearing units. A separate fund was established for granting subsidies to imports from Turkey, to be derived by deducting 15 per cent from all proceeds of Turkish clearing units earned by exports to Turkey; after May 31, the deduction was to be 20 per cent (but see May 31, below). May 11 Importers opening documentary credits financed by credit lines must deposit the local currency equivalent of at least 25 per cent of the amount of the documentary credit with an authorized bank. 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL May 26 Residents receiving from abroad funds resulting from the liquidation of property abroad, from an estate or legacy accruing in a foreign country, from payment on a life insurance policy, or from compensation from Germany, could have the funds kept in an interest-bearing de- posit in foreign currency with authorized banks (PAZAK accounts). Previously, such funds had to be surrendered. May 31 It was announced that 15 per cent of export proceeds from Turkey would continue to be transferred to the Fund for Balancing Trade with Turkey until August 1, when it would become 20 per cent. June 20 An amendment to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Invest- ments was passed, making the privileges in the law more automatic and reducing taxation on new enterprises. June 21 A trade balancing fund similar to that for Turkey (see April 1, above) was established for trade with Yugoslavia, and a deduction of 13 per cent would be made from exporters' receipts. June 24 Residents, including new immigrants, were permitted to use all receipts from abroad (except remittances by charitable institutions and transfers under bilateral and clearing agreements) to establish interest-bearing time deposits in foreign currencies with authorized commercial banks (PAZAK accounts). Julyl The basic effective rate of LB1.800 per US$1 for most transactions was established as the official rate and the nominal official rate of LE1.000 per US$1 was abolished. August 1 Foreign shipowners were permitted to credit PAMAZ accounts with all foreign currency received from foreign residents. The amounts could be transferred abroad at the end of each month. 196 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL October 2 The buying rate applied to exchange receipts from appeals and dona- tions of institutions, organizations, funds, etc., was changed from LE1.300 to LE1.500 per US$1. The requirement that a deposit in local currency equivalent to 25 per cent of the credit must be made when a documentary credit is opened on credit lines (see May 11, above) was extended to documen- tary credits for which the exchange allocation would not be made available until the credit was utilized. In addition, for import licenses marked "cash allocation," the authorized bank was required to obtain foreign exchange and/or clearing currencies from the Bank of Israel against full payment in Israel pounds. November 1 The percentage of export proceeds from Turkey to be deducted and paid to the Fund for Balancing Trade with Turkey was raised from 20 to 30. 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Exchange Rate System No par value for the Italian Lira has been established with the Fund. Exchange rates are quoted for Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and for the various currencies l in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. Under the multilateral arbitrage arrangements, the author- ized banks may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, with authorized banks in any of the participating countries in any of their currencies (except free Swiss f rancs ); the spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks may deal in Canadian and U.S. dollars with banks in Canada and the United States. The rate for the U.S. dollar has remained between Lit 624 and Lit 625 per US$1 since Septem- ber 1949. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not exercised over payments from the Italian Republic to the Republic of San Marino. There are special arrange- ments for payments between Italy and the territory of Somaliland under Italian administration. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Uffido Italiano dei Cambi) on the basis of instructions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and purchases of exchange, including those negotiated on the free market, pass through banks authorized for this purpose. Prescription of Currency Incoming and outgoing payments for transactions with countries in the dollar area or with countries with which there are no payments agreements generally are made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, or pounds sterling. Incoming and outgoing payments for 1 These currencies are Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche marks, French francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss "agreement" francs. 198 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY transactions with countries with which there are payments agreements2 must be made according to the methods and in the currencies established by the agreements. Nonresident Accounts The main types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to maintain with authorized banks are described below. 1. Current Accounts. These accounts are for current transactions. They are classified into three main subgroups: (a) Current Convertible Accounts may be held by a resident of any foreign country; (b) Current EPU Accounts may be held by banks, foreign travel bureaus, shipping and insurance companies, and other firms specially authorized by the Ministry of Foreign Trade, located in EPU countries; and (c) Current Bilateral Accounts may be held by banks, foreign travel bureaus, shipping and insurance companies, and other firms specially authorized by the Ministry of Foreign Trade, located in bilateral agreement countries.2 Balances on Current Convertible and Current EPU Accounts are freely transferable from one account to another within the same sub- group. Balances on Current Convertible Accounts are freely trans- ferable to any other nonresident account, while balances on Current EPU Accounts may be transferred to Current Bilateral Accounts, to Financial EPU Accounts, or to Financial Accounts related to "other countries" (see below). Generally, Current Accounts may be credited with amounts arising from permitted outward transfers, in particular with payments for imports and incidental invisibles, and they may be debited freely for payments for Italian exports and incidental invisibles. Balances on Current Accounts, except Current Bilateral Accounts, may be used for investment purposes in Italy. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts are for financial transactions. They are classified according to currency area into three subgroups: (a) Financial Dollar Area Accounts for residents of dollar countries; (b) Financial EPU Accounts for residents of EPU countries; and (c) Financial "Other Countries" Accounts for residents of non-dollar, non-EPU countries. 2 Besides payments agreements with EPU countries, Italy has bilateral payments agreements with Albania, Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Hungary, Iran, Israel, Japan, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Spain, UJ3.S.R., Viet- nam, and Yugoslavia. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Balances on Financial Accounts are freely transferable from one account to another within the same subgroup. Balances on Financial Dollar Area Accounts may be transferred to any other Financial Account. Balances on Financial EPU Accounts may be transferred to Financial Accounts related to "other countries." No transfers from a Financial Account to a Current Account are allowed. Apart from permissible transfers from other accounts, Financial Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of the sale of foreign-owned personal property and real estate in Italy and with payments arising from the regulation of foreign-owned capital in Italy under the Regency Decree of March 2,1948. Financial Accounts may be debited for invest- ments, the living and traveling expenses in Italy of the account holder and his family up to Lit 500,000 per month, the payment of taxes, etc. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required for most imports from OEEC coun- tries and their associated territories, Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, Thailand, and Yemen. Imports from countries other than these and with which Italy has payments agreements are subject to the licensing system or to customs authorization in accord- ance with the lists provided by the agreements. Most imports for which payment must be made in convertible currency are subject to license; however, for a wide range of dollar commodities in "List A," import licenses are granted automatically by authorized banks. Trade with some countries with which no payments agreements exist is settled on a compensation basis (private compensations, global compensations, and transactions on a reciprocal basis). Imports from Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, Finland, Paraguay, and Spain are linked to exports to these countries. For all authorized imports, the exchange control authorities grant exchange or approve payment forthwith for the necessary amount and in accordance with the established methods of payment (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles As a general rule, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses, which are issued by the exchange control authorities. Foreign exchange is granted freely for expenses incidental to trade transactions. For other types of expenditure, such as travel for business and tourism, health and education, patents and trademarks, and remittances of in- come on foreign-owned capital, the authorized banks are permitted to 200 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY approve payments abroad up to specified limits. Residents may send postal money orders for up to Lit 20,000 in any currency for any non- commercial purpose. As a rule, when the cost of insurance premiums is being met by Italian exporters or importers, payment to domestic or foreign insurance companies operating in Italy is effected in Italian lire. Insurance may be paid in free currency, pounds sterling, or a clearing currency, as the case may be, only for goods arriving in Italy or being sent out of Italy where the insurance has been stipulated by contractual agreement with an insurance company chosen by the seller or buyer abroad. Tourists traveling to EPU countries may obtain from the banks exchange to the value of Lit 130,000 per adult (Lit 65,000 per child) per year. Remittances to cover health and education expenses and busi- ness travel in EPU countries may be authorized by the banks up to the value of Lit 130,000 per person per year. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Lit 30,000 in Italian banknotes. Favorable treatment is accorded to earnings on investments in Italy made in free Swiss francs or in U.S. or Canadian dollars (see section on Capital, below). Income from capital due to residents of EPU and bilateral agreement countries may be transferred freely up to Lit 500,000 per year. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain commodities listed in a special table (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. This requirement is waived for a few commodities if they are paid for in U.S. or Canadian dollars or free Swiss francs. Special credit facilities are provided to promote exports of special sup- plies. In addition, certain tax refunds are granted on a wide range of exported commodities; the funds for this purpose are made available by imposing an "equalization tax," ranging from 1 to 4 per cent, on certain import commodities. Licenses for exports to Argentina, Brazil, Ecuador, Finland, Paraguay, and Spain require that such exports be linked to an equivalent value of imports from the respective country. Exchange receipts must be surrendered to an authorized bank within seven days of receipt. For a short period they may be held in an account with that bank and used for authorized payments (see Changes during 1955, July 28, below). Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same surrender require- ments as receipts from exports, except that shipping and insurance com- 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY panies and travel and forwarding agencies may keep operating accounts in U.S. and Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, and pounds sterling. Persons may bring in Italian banknotes in any amount. Capital In accordance with the provisions of Decree Law No, 211 of March 2, 1948,8 foreign investments in Italy effected through the transfer of free Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, or Canadian dollars may be repatriated in the currency of the original investment within the limits of its value, begin- ning two years from the date of investment, and for each succeeding period of two years, in amounts not exceeding 50 per cent of the capital; however, the repatriation of capital invested in capital equipment (which can constitute a maximum amount equal to half of the entire capital invested) may be repatriated not earlier than five years from the date of investment. Earnings on such investments at a rate not exceeding the legal rate of interest (currently 5 per cent) by more than 1 per cent are freely transferable abroad.4 Any amounts which arise from such investments and are not freely transferable abroad may be credited to Financial Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Other foreign investments, unless accorded special treatment as to transfer facilities under bilateral arrangements, are credited to Financial Accounts. Investments abroad by residents are subject to approval, which is granted only when such investments are considered economically ad- vantageous. Residents who are also Italian nationals are obliged to repatriate or surrender all capital invested abroad in the form of loans or securities payable in foreign currencies unless specifically exempted from this obligation. The export of securities is not permitted, except for those which are owned by nonresidents and have been purchased against freely convert- ible currencies. 3 The provisions of Decree Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 have been replaced by Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956, which provides greater facilities for foreign investments. 4 Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956, all restrictions on the repatriation of capital invested in the establishment or expansion of "productive enterprises" and on the transfer of income therefrom were abolished. For other investments, the capital may be repatriated after a minimum period of two years and the transfer of income is limited to 8 per cent. 202 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Banknotes Banks are authorized to buy banknotes in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or Swiss francs at the official rates, and banknotes in other cur- rencies at a price corresponding to the rate of exchange for such notes in foreign free markets. Changes during 1955 January 14 A new list covering a large number of inward and outward payments for invisible transactions with EPU countries was put into force, indi- cating for each item the transfer limits, the specific regulations to be observed, the power given to the authorized banks, etc. At the same time, provision was made for the free transfer of up to Lit 50,000 for invisible transactions, regardless of purpose. February 16 Power was granted to authorized banks (up to Lit 1 million) and to regional offices of the Italian Exchange Office (up to Lit 2.5 million) to offset debts arising from imports against claims for exports—includ- ing payments for incidental expenses on both imports and exports— provided the offsetting takes place in conformity with the general pre- scription of currency requirements. April 1 The system of nonresident accounts in both lire and foreign currencies was considerably simplified, and the transferability of balances on such accounts was extended to all nonresident accounts related to EPU countries. April 27 A list similar to that issued on January 14, 1955, covering current invisible and capital transactions with bilateral agreement countries, was put into force; it provided for the free transfer of up to Lit 30,000 for any invisible transaction, regardless of purpose. April 29 The free amount for franco valuta imports and exports (trade trans- actions that do not involve foreign exchange) permitted under the cus- toms declaration procedure was raised from Lit 150,000 to Lit 500,000 quarterly. 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY April 30 The free transferability of balances held on Current EPU Accounts (see April 1, above) was revised for multilateral lire accounts only, so that balances on the accounts of nonresidents residing in sterling coun- tries were freely transferable only among accounts related to other sterling countries. However, this revision was later superseded (see August 22, below). June 20 A few goods hitherto under the OEEC liberalization were again made subject to import licensing. July 28 Decree Law No. 586 was put into force, empowering the Italian Gov- ernment to permit current proceeds in foreign exchange to be retained by the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for a certain period (the eligible currencies were listed in a ministerial decree—see July 29, be- low) . During the retention period, such balances may be utilized for permitted transactions or may be sold to other residents or to author- ized banks. The banks are allowed to sell such currencies to residents for authorized transactions and to negotiate them freely with the Ex- change Office or among themselves. After expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Exchange Office at the low- est official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome). The new decree law also discontinued the "50 per cent dollar retention scheme" that had been in operation since March 1946. July 29 A ministerial decree in execution of the decree law of July 28 deter- mined that, in addition to the convertible currencies, all currencies of countries participating in the multilateral arbitrage arrangements in operation among certain Western European countries would fall under the new free exchange market scheme. August 18 Circular No. 87800 of the Italian Exchange Office was issued, deter- mining the categories of forward transactions authorized banks are allowed to conclude freely. 204 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY August 22 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. Authorized banks were given additional power to credit and debit freely nonresident Financial Accounts related to EPU countries (see January 14 and April 30, above). December 5 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, in the multilateral ex- change arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. 205 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Japanese Yen 360 = US$1. The official rates of authorized banks for telegraphic transfers are ¥ 359.20 buying, Y 360.80 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates are uniform. Administration of Control A Ministerial Council whose main function is the drafting of ex- change budgets is the highest control authority on the policy level. The Ministry of International Trade and Industry carries out exchange and trade control policy in respect of merchandise transactions, while the Ministry of Finance —through its Foreign Exchange Bureau and the Foreign Exchange Council—does so in respect of prescription of currency and method of settlement, the operation of the foreign ex- change fund, payments for nonmerchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Ministry of Finance also has the func- tion of determining exchange rates. The Bank of Japan, as the Govern- ment's agent, executes the above functions in part. Authorized banks carry out the controls on the technical administrative level. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in accordance with the following prescription of currency requirements: (1) with Sterling Area countries and others,1 settlements are made in sterling; (2) with the Federal Republic of Germany, under the new payments agreement, settlements may be effected on a cash basis in deutsche marks, pounds sterling, or other currencies mutually agreed upon by the two Governments; (3) with certain payments agreement countries, settlements must be made through open accounts, which are denominated in accounting dollars and are maintained on a strictly bilateral bas is ;2 and (4) with all other countries, settlements are made in U.S. dollars, with the additional feature that settlements with Canada and Switzerland may be made in their respective curren- cies. Exports to the Sterling Area, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the open account countries may also be settled partially or wholly 1 Austria, Mainland China, Denmark, Italy, Norway, Portuguese Monetary Area, and Sudan were included in the sterling settlement group as from January 1956. 2 The open account settlement countries are Argentina, Brazil, China (Taiwan), Egypt, Finland, French Monetary Area, Greece, Indonesia, Republic of Korea, Netherlands Monetary Area, Philippine Republic, Sweden, Thailand, and Turkey. 206 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN in U.S. dollars if the authorities of the importing country agree or such agreement is not required. The prescribed technical and banking form and channel for effecting settlements differ according to various char- acteristic features and the category of transaction involved. Deviations from these prescription of currency requirements are subject to indi- vidual license from the control authorities. Nonresident Accounts 1. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Nonresidents may be author- ized individually to keep Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. Debits to these accounts for the personal needs of the account holder or for certain payments in yen without compensation to a resident or to a nonresident are authorized freely. Debits to these accounts for conversion into foreign currency require individual licenses. 2. Nonresident Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts. As a measure to facilitate the application of exchange control, specified nonresidents are authorized to keep deposit accounts in U.S. dollars with banks. (Speci- fied residents, such as shipping companies, airlines, tourist services, and insurance companies, also are authorized to keep Foreign Currency Deposit Accounts in U.S. dollars or pounds sterling.) 3. Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. Certain proceeds of foreign- ers7 liquidated investments may be put in Foreign Investors7 Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for making other investments under certain conditions. Imports and Import Payments Practically all imports are subject to individual import license and, where payment is to be made, to registration with an authorized bank ("bank certification77) for prescription of currency purposes. Import licenses are granted rather freely for certain types of goods, e.g., food- stuffs, basic raw materials, and specified machinery and equipment. Most of the authorized imports are planned in the exchange budget and communicated through "Import Announcements.7' Authorized imports that are not listed in the "Import Announcements77 are such items as operating supplies and maintenance materials required for export or essential domestic production, and imports through compensation arrangements or under the Special Foreign Exchange Allocation System (retention quo ta). Other imports authorized outside the above arrange- ments include those not requiring payment and goods imported for processing and re-export. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN There are four different licensing procedures: (1) Under the exchange allocation system (covering imports of foodstuffs, raw materials, and other essentials), the importer must first obtain from the trade control authorities an allocation of foreign exchange appropriate to the desig- nated sources of the imports. If the allocation is granted, the importer receives a foreign exchange allocation certificate which entitles him to receive import licenses from a foreign exchange bank automatically upon application. (2) Under the global quota system, the same pro- cedure as described above is followed, except that the exchange alloca- tion certificates for imports are issued by the trade control authorities on a global quota basis, that is, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settlement. (3) Under the automatic approval system, licenses for specified commodities are issued on application, provided the amount appropriated for the currency area or open account country concerned has not been used up. There is no quantitative limi- tation for each commodity importable under this system, but there is a maximum amount of exchange assigned to each currency area or open account country for all eligible items, so that further applications will not be accepted when the budgeted amounts are exhausted. (4) Under the "first come, first served" procedure, the "Import Announcement" specifies both the maximum amount of exchange and the sources of import for each commodity. When the total of the applications re- ceived exceeds the outstanding balance appropriated for a particular commodity from a particular source, decisions are made by balloting. This system has not been used recently, however. Licenses for imports covered by exchange allocation are issued by authorized banks; but when the proposed payments are not in accord- ance with the prescribed methods of settlement, such imports require prior approval of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. Licenses for other imports are issued by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. As a general rule, applicants for import licenses must make a deposit, which is calculated by multiplying the value of the intended import by a coefficient that differs for various categories of goods. The deposit is returned after the goods have been imported or if the import trans- action is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. Payments for Invisibles Contracts for specified services are subject to individual license, e.g., services between residents giving rise to foreign claimable assets, and services between residents and nonresidents when payment is to be effected by a nonstandard method or over a period longer than three 208 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN months. Payments also are subject to individual license; however, pay- ments considered as part of a transaction which has been authorized may be effected freely. Payments on account of costs incidental to authorized imports and exports and specified categories of transfers— e.g., those in connection with insurance and shipping—are permitted freely. Residents may take out of Japan ¥ 2,000 in Japanese currency to be spent only on Japanese ships or on Japanese aircraft. Applica- tions to take larger amounts are considered on a case-to-case basis. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to registration with an authorized bank ("bank certification") in order to enforce the requirements concerning prescription of currency and surrender of proceeds. The following exports are subject to individual license: (1) goods in short supply in the domestic market, (2) strategic materials, (3) imported goods, (4) goods on the list of prohibited exports, (5) gold or gold alloy in bul- lion form, and (6) goods exported by transshipment or under consign- ment, processing, or compensation contracts. Export proceeds have to be surrendered within ten days from the date of acquisition. However, exporters are permitted to use, through simpli- fied procedures, 5 per cent of their export proceeds for specified pur- poses, which are listed as follows: traveling and living expenses abroad related to the promotion of foreign trade; expenses of overseas branch offices; imports (including incidental costs) needed for export promo- tion and/or economic recovery; imports of bona fide samples; catalogs, financial directories, and other similar trade publications. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts by the standard methods of settlement may be accepted without a license. However, contracts for specified services are subject to individual license, e.g., services between residents giving rise to foreign claimable assets, and services performed for nonresidents when payment is to be received by a nonstandard method. Exchange receipts from invisibles must, as a rule, be surrendered. Residents may bring into Japan in Japanese currency any unspent balance of the amount which they legally took out. Otherwise, the importation of Japanese currency by residents or nonresidents is prohibited. Capital In accordance with Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950, which was revised on April 3, 1951 and July 1, 1952, foreign investments in Japan are, generally speaking, subject to approval. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN All purchases of stocks, debentures, and investment trust certificates by foreign investors are subject to individual license if remittance of income or principal is desired. Such purchases must be effected against the yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent. However, stocks in the form of stock dividends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remit- tance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. Proceeds from the sale of debentures before maturity may not be reinvested. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated freely. Transfers abroad of earnings on foreign investments, and of up to 20 per cent of the value of such an investment in any one year, are per- mitted. The proceeds of liquidated investments may be transferred abroad two years after the investment is made; for stocks purchased with proceeds from the sale of other stocks, the two-year period runs from the date of the last purchase. In the event of capital loss, only the actual proceeds may be remitted. For debentures, the principal may be entirely remitted at maturity only. Principal on investment trust certificates may be remitted after their redemption in five equal annual installments. Purchase rights on stocks may be sold if the issuing company gives its consent, or the value of the rights can be realized by selling the stocks with rights and purchasing the same stocks without rights or purchasing other stocks. (This constitutes a preferential treatment of foreign investors, as under the Japanese commercial code stock pur- chase rights may not be sold.) All other capital transactions and trans- fers having an exchange control aspect are subject to individual license. Assets held by residents abroad must be declared and, if requested, liquidated and the proceeds surrendered. Capital transfers abroad and foreign investments by residents are subject to approval, which may be given if such investments are recognized as necessary for business activity. Imports and exports of, and transactions in, securities involving non- resident interests are subject to approval. Changes during 1955 February 8 A new trade and payments agreement was signed with Turkey which provided for the settlement of mutual transactions on an open account, 210 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN U.S. dollar basis. An export rights system was adopted to prevent exces- sive exports to that country. March 1 The retention quota applied to export proceeds under the Special Foreign Exchange Allocation System was reduced from 10 per cent to 5 per cent. March 12 A trade and payments agreement was signed with Greece under which payments between the two countries were to be settled in open account U.S. dollars. Effective April 1, exports to Greece would be made subject to prior approval, in order to prevent excessive exports to that country. March 22 The regulations governing the quotation of exchange rates by ex- change banks were liberalized by allowing the commercial banks to quote buying rates for sight bills and acceptance rates for import bills within certain specified limits. The quotation of buying rates for export usance bills was removed from official control. March 31 The export-import linking devices (such as the linking of exports of iron and steel products to imports of scrap iron) were abolished. April 1 The scope of the global quota system for allocation of exchange was greatly extended in the foreign exchange budget announced for the period April-September 1955. The import usance facilities in U.S. and Canadian dollars, Swiss francs, and German open account dollars were made available for 14 additional items, e.g., raw cotton, raw wool, rayon pulp, flax, copper ore, phosphoric rock, and potash. October 1 The new payments agreement between Japan and the Federal Repub- lic of Germany became effective. Payment transactions between the two countries could be effected in sterling, in partly convertible deutsche 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN marks, or in other currencies mutually agreed upon by the two Govern- ments. Deutsche marks were added to the list of currencies designated for the settlement of international transactions. October 6 The number of commodities importable under the automatic approval system was increased from 360 to 457. The amount of the guarantee deposit that an importer must make when applying for an import license was considerably reduced. October 18 It was decided to terminate an existing open account payments agree- ment with Italy. December 28 Austria, Mainland China, Denmark, Italy, Norway, the Portuguese Monetary Area, and the Sudan were designated as countries with which settlements would, in principle, be in pounds sterling, effective Janu- ary 1956. 212 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMTTE KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value of the Jordan Dinar is JD 1 = US$2.80. The official rates are US$2.82 buying, US$2.78 selling, per JD 1. There are two exchange markets in Jordan, one primarily for transactions in non- Arab League currencies and the other for transactions in Arab League currencies.1 Official rates are applied in the former, while in the latter, rates fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand. The rate in the free market as at December 31, 1955 was equivalent to US$2.575 per JD 1. A tax of 2 per cent is levied on sales of exchange for invisible transactions whether payment is made at the official or the free rate. Import license fees of 5 or 2 per cent are charged on imports paid for at the official or the free rate, respectively. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is exercised by the Exchange Control Department of the Ministry of Finance under the responsi- bility of the Controller of Currency. Import licensing regulations are enforced by the Controller of the Import Department of the Ministry of Trade. In general, exchange is granted automatically for imports for which the requisite license has been obtained. Prescription of Currency Transactions for which exchange at official rates is provided must in general be paid for according to the country of origin in a currency prescribed on the individual import license. Export proceeds must be surrendered, where required, in a currency appropriate to the country of destination. "Prescribed currency" includes the payment of sterling to or from an account in the United Kingdom appropriate to the country concerned. Most trade involving official exchange is financed through such accounts. The Hashemite Kingdom of the Jordan is one of the countries in the Sterling Area. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open nonresident accounts designated geo- graphically according to the residence of the account holder, subject to 1The members of the Arab League are Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Syria, and Yemen. The currencies most concerned here are, how- ever, those of Lebanon and Syria. 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMTTE KINGDOM the prior approval of the Controller of Currency. These accounts, which may be used only for legitimate business purposes, must be fed by appropriate funds. The approval of the Controller of Currency is neces- sary for redesignation of residence, for transfers from resident to non- resident accounts, and for transfers to residents of hard currency coun- tries from any other nonresident account. All other transfers between nonresident accounts and transfers from nonresident to resident accounts are permitted freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports into Jordan of certain goods are prohibited. Imports are sub- ject to individual import license; however, certain products of some Arab League countries are exempt from import licensing under Jordan's bilateral agreements with Iraq, Egypt, Lebanon, and Syria, but no official exchange is provided for these imports. For programmed imports in the essential category, non-Arab League currencies are normally provided at the official rates upon payment of an import license fee of 5 per cent. Arab League currencies may be granted for such imports, if necessary, in which case an import license fee of 2 per cent is charged. Exchange allocations for essential imports are divided between hard and soft currencies. Import licenses in hard currencies are not granted if the goods can be obtained from soft cur- rency sources on equal terms. In practice, licenses in hard currencies are confined to certain specified items, such as medicines, cars and spare parts, agricultural and industrial machinery, used clothes, and tobacco, but without quantitative limitation. Licenses are generally given freely for all goods listed in the program from non-dollar sources. An importer who has been granted an import license must open a letter of credit within three months after the import license is granted. Alternatively, the importer may order the goods and arrange with his bank to apply for exchange either when the shipping documents arrive in Jordan or when the goods have been cleared through customs. For imports in the nonessential category, import licenses are issued providing for payment in Arab League currencies upon payment of an import license fee of 2 per cent. Licenses are given freely, and no quantitative limitations are imposed. Imports in this category comprise both imports of goods of Arab League origin, and imports of goods of non-Arab League origin for which exchange at the official rates is not provided. Payment for goods originating in and imported from Arab League countries must be made in the currency of the exporting coun- 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMTTE KINGDOM try. Payment for goods originating in countries outside the Arab League but imported from an Arab League country must be made in the cur- rency of the Arab League country concerned. For goods imported directly from the country of origin outside the Arab League, authorized banks in Jordan are required to arrange through a Syrian or Lebanese bank for payment in the currency of the exporting country or in ster- ling. The necessary currency to cover such payments is purchased by the Jordan banks against payment in Syrian or Lebanese currency. All Arab League currency licenses for goods of non-Arab League origin are endorsed to the efifect that, before the goods enter Jordan, customs will require evidence that a credit has been opened or that payment will be made through an authorized bank. No such requirement is attached to licenses for goods of Arab League origin. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payment to non-Arab League countries is approved at the official rate in the currency of the country to which payment is due or in sterling. Payment to an Arab League country is approved at the free rate in the currency of the country concerned, except that remittances for educa- tional expenses in Arab League countries are granted in sterling. A tax of 2 per cent is levied on all payments for invisibles. Payments for the following types of invisible transactions are generally permitted: in- come of nonresidents, savings up to JD 5,000 of foreign nationals who intend to return to their own countries, remittances to refugee depend- ents, living expenses of Jordan nationals abroad, travel expenses of Jordan residents abroad, educational expenditures, medical treatment expenses, business expenses abroad, and insurance payments in accord- ance with special regulations. The policy in authorizing these payments is, in general, nondiscriminatory. In respect of certain items, however, limits have been established. Thus, for travel to Europe the allowance is UK£150 per month for a period of three months in any one year; larger allowances are approved for travel to the United States. No allowance is given for travel to Syria and Lebanon, but Jordanians, Lebanese, and Syrians traveling to these countries may take out up to JD 100 in Jordan banknotes. Otherwise, persons leaving Jordan may not take out more than JD 5 in Jordan banknotes. Persons leaving Jordan for any destination may take out the equivalent of JD 10 in foreign banknotes and any amount of such notes previously brought into the country by them. Up to JD 5 per person per month may be sent by postal or money order to other Arab League countries. 215 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMITE KINGDOM Exports and Export Proceeds In general, export proceeds exceeding JD 20 must be surrendered to the authorized banks in the currency of the country to which the export is made; such proceeds have to be surrendered at the free market rate if in an Arab League currency and at the official rate if in any other currency. Proceeds from exports of vegetables, fruits, and other perish- able commodities are exempt from this requirement on the understand- ing that the proceeds will be used to pay for imports from the Arab League states. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the banks in the appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), but receipts from tourism are usually negotiated outside the authorized exchange markets. Nationals of Jordan, Lebanon, or Syria entering Jordan from Lebanon or Syria may bring in a maximum of JD 100 in Jordan banknotes; otherwise the limit is JD 5. All persons may bring in any amount in foreign currencies. Capital Capital may be imported freely. Capital exports require approval. Current income arising from nonresident investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Capital Investment, effective May 1, 1955, profits from approved foreign investments may be remitted regularly in the currency of the original investment without any limitation. After one year, the repatri- ation of the capital is permitted in four annual installments in the same foreign exchange as the original investment. The Government may approve more liberal provisions upon application. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents are subject to approval. However, capital transfers and transactions between Jordan and other Arab League countries are accorded preferential treatment. 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMITE KINGDOM Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (UJ3. dollars per dinar) Buying 2.82 (Official Rate) Exports to non-Arab League countries of phosphates, etc. Some invisibles. 2.575 (Free Market Rate) All other exchange receipts. Selling 2.78 2 (Official Rate) Government payments. Imports author- ized at the official rate in non-Arab League currencies. 2.7244 ($2.78 with 2% Tax) Invisibles authorized at the official rate in non-Arab League currencies. 2.575 2 (Free Market Rate) All imports authorized in Arab League currencies. 2.5235 (Free Market Rate with t% Tax) Invisibles authorized in Arab League currencies. Changes during 1955 January 26 The exchange and trade control system was substantially modified. The main changes are described below. 1. With certain exceptions, all commodities were made subject to import licensing and grouped in two categories. Licenses for imports in the essential category were to be granted in sterling or dollars or, if necessary, in Arab League currencies, and licenses for other imports were to be granted in Arab League currencies. 2. The system of fines on certain imports was discontinued. 3. A free exchange market for transactions in Arab League cur- rencies was legalized. Payments in Arab League currencies for imports in the nonessential category and for invisibles were to be effected through this market at rates fluctuating with demand and supply. A license fee of 2 per cent was imposed on these imports, and the invisible payments were made subject to exchange control approval and to a tax of 2 per cent. Proceeds of exports to Arab League countries and invisible receipts in Arab League currencies were required to be surrendered to the 2 This selling rate does not include the fee payable on all import licenses (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN, HASHEMTTE KINGDOM authorized banks at free market rates. However, exports of fruits, vegetables, and other perishable commodities to the neighboring coun- tries were exempted from this requirement. 4. The official exchange market (i.e., where official rates are applica- ble) was restricted primarily to non-Arab League currencies. Payments for all essential imports and for specified invisibles were to be effected through this market. A fee of 5 per cent was payable on licenses required for these imports, while the tax of 2 per cent on exchange for invisibles remained unchanged. Surrender requirements at the official rate were applied to all receipts in non-Arab League currencies. Mayl The Law for the Encouragement of Foreign Capital Investment came into effect (see section on Capital, above). July 9 The amount of Jordan banknotes that nationals of countries other than Jordan, Syria, and Lebanon could bring in or take out of Jordan was reduced from JD 20 to JD 5. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Korean Hwan. The official rate is 500 hwan = US$1. The official rate applies to all transactions, with the exception of the following U.S. aid items: (1) coal of U.S. origin, to which a rate of not less than 40 per cent of the official rate applies until June 30,1956 (200 hw a n ); (2) fertilizer, to which a rate of not less than 50 per cent of the official rate applies (250 hwan ); * (3) investment goods for nonrevenue-producing projects, to which differential exchange rates or subsidies apply; and (4) relief supplies, to which various rates apply depending on the commodity. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance and by the Bank of Korea (the central bank), which is the only authorized exchange bank in Korea and through which all exchange transactions must pass. Exchange control regulations are issued by the Monetary Board of the Bank and the Ministry of Finance. Certain imports and exports must be approved by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars, Hong Kong dollars, pounds sterling, or in a currency authorized by the Monetary Board of the Bank of Korea. Imports and Import Payments Imports listed by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry may be imported without license, the only procedure necessary being the open- ing of a letter of credit. A few specified commodities require prior approval, and goods not listed on the import lists require the authoriza- tion of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Imports from com- munist countries are prohibited. Imports are classified in two categories—ordinary imports and special imports. Ordinary imports may be imported either with foreign ex- change purchased from the Government or with export earnings. Special imports may be imported only with foreign exchange earned from exports or with dollar receipts from United Nations Forces. Imports of 1 Effective February 1, 1956, this special rate for imports of fertilizer was elimi- nated, and the official rate of 500 hwan applied. 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF mining machinery, farm machinery, looms, and parts, and sugar and flour are restricted by quota. Since August 24, 1955 the Government has been releasing, at inter- vals, foreign exchange in specified amounts at the official rate to any Korean registered as a foreign trader. Foreign exchange obtained from the Government in these sales is deposited in Import Accounts and may be used to purchase goods on the list of ordinary imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for invisible transactions, including tax payments and gifts, up to US$500 may be made from a General Account (see section on Proceeds from Invisibles, below) with the approval of the Bank of Korea. Larger amounts require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Persons holding General Accounts may apply to the Min- istry of Finance to utilize this exchange for business travel if they have received a recommendation from the Bank of Korea. General Accounts may be used to purchase hwan to pay wages or salaries to foreign employees, who may remit overseas from these accounts subject to checking by the Ministry of Finance. The remittance of profits is not permitted. Departing foreigners may exchange hwan for dollars up to US$100. The export of foreign means of payment is prohibited by military order. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain specified goods, such as raw cotton, livestock, precious metals and their ores, paper and paper products, machinery, and vessels, and exports to communist countries are prohibited. Cer- tain goods may be exported only under the authorization of the Minis- try of Commerce and Industry. The foreign exchange proceeds of exports must be deposited in a foreign exchange Import Account in the Bank of Korea. Import Accounts are credited with foreign exchange accruing from (1) exports of goods and services; (2) sales of goods to the Republic of Korea Army, where payment is made from U.S. aid f u n d s ;2 (3) purchases, to pay for imports, of foreign currency holdings from the Government of Korea by private parties; (4) sales of gold and silver to the Bank of Korea, as authorized by the Monetary Board; and (5) sales of goods and serv- ices to the United Nations Forces by persons or firms in Korea. (When United Nations Forces make contracts with local suppliers for goods 2 Effective January 5, 1956. 220 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF and services, the local supplier must obtain the approval of the Minis- try of Finance. The supplier may then be paid in dollars, which must be sold to the Bank of Korea or deposited in an Import Account.) Exchange in Import Accounts may be sold to the Bank of Korea or used to pay for imports, for incidental costs of imports and exports (freight, insurance, etc.), and for other approved purposes. Proceeds from Invisibles The proceeds derived from invisible transactions must be either sold to the Bank of Korea or deposited with the Bank in a General Account. Foreign exchange received by foreigners from employment in Korea is deposited in a General Account, but such deposits may be disposed of only in accordance with existing regulations. Foreign exchange reported upon entering the country or sent from overseas is credited to a Gen- eral Account. (See also section on Payments for Invisibles, above.) Capital All capital remittances require approval. Changes during 1955 June 30 Exporters to Japan were deprived of the privilege of using the reten- tion quota system, and about 40 items were removed from the list of goods importable with exchange held under the retention quota system. August 12 The United States and the Republic of Korea agreed on an exchange rate between the hwan and the U.S. dollar and on other economic matters. August 15 It was announced that the new official exchange rate was 500 hwan per US$1, to apply to all transactions except certain U.S. aid imports. August 18 The Ministry of Commerce suspended issuance of permits for exports to and imports from Japan. 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF August 23 It was announced that at least US$60 million of government-held foreign exchange would be sold, at intervals during the year, at the official rate and that foreign exchange would be controlled under Im- port Accounts and General Accounts. August 26 The Republic of Korea became a member of the International Mone- tary Fund. August 29 The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced a new import program, listing ordinary and special items. Special imports could be purchased only with exchange accruing from exports. Ordinary imports could be purchased either with exchange from exports or with exchange purchased from the Government. September 3 The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced a readjustment in the classification of import items. Wheat flour and foreign motion pictures were reclassified in the category of ordinary imports. September 8 The Combined Economic Board agreed on a rate for imports of fer- tilizer of 250 hwan per US$1. September 29 The Ministry of Commerce and Industry announced new import and export procedures. Certain goods could be imported without a license. Nine categories of goods could be exported without the permission of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. October 14 The Minister of Commerce and Industry announced the reopening of trade with Japan (see August 18, above) on a limited scale. October 21 Revised procedures for commercial procurement with U.S. Inter- national Cooperation Administration funds were announced. Funds 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA, REPUBLIC OF were to be made available to private users on the basis of the order of arrival of applications. A deposit of the hwan equivalent of 80 per cent of the dollar funds must be made. December 19 It was announced that trade with Japan would be resumed January 1, 1956, with imports from Japan limited to the amount of foreign ex- change accruing from exports to that country. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System The par value is Lebanese Pounds 2.19148 = US$1. The official rates are LL 2.19 buying, LL 2.21 selling, per US$1. These rates apply only to certain government payments; all other transactions take place at the free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar as at December 31, 1955 were LL 3.24% buying, LL 3.24% selling, per US$1. The free market dollar rate is prevented from falling below LL 3.20 per US$1. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are attached to exchange payments or receipts in Lebanon. In some cases, transactions with certain countries, with which Lebanon has concluded payments agreements specifying the method or channel of payment, may be made through specific accounts.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods (apples, citrus fruits, dangerous drugs, etc.) are prohibited. Imports of certain commodities that are for the most part produced locally are subject to license. All other imports may be imported freely without license. Exchange to pay for imports is obtained freely through the free market. Payments for Invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles may be obtained freely through the free market or payment may be made freely in local currency to any account. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licensing is applied to only a few items, such as livestock, wheat, barley, jute goods, cement, caustic soda, petroleum and petro- leum products, and certain metals. There are no surrender requirements attached to exchange receipts from exports, which may be retained, used, or freely sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no surrender requirements attached to exchange receipts from invisibles, which may be retained, used, or freely sold in the free market. 1 Lebanon has payments agreements with Mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, East Germany, Federal Republic of Germany, Poland, and U.S.S.R. 224 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Capital There are no limitations on capital payments or receipts, and ex- change in respect of capital movements may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Changes during 1955 January 1 The requirement of import licenses was lifted for all but the follow- ing commodities: dried fruits, wheat, barley, maize, wheat flour, tahin, Halawi, canned fruits, fruit juices (concentrated or in liquid fo rm ), ordinary wine, vinegar, salt, ethyl alcohol, methanol, eau de cologne, powder cleansers, matches, varnished hides and skins, rubber soles and heels, leather and rubber shoes and parts, woodwork, wooden furniture, iron furniture, ordinary cardboard, cigarette paper, natural silk yarns, crepe, costume jewelry, toys, and machines and equipment for the establishment of factories similar to those already existing in Lebanon. February 14 Licenses were no longer required for imports of the following items: dried fruits, preserved fruits (except apples), fruit juices (except orange and lemon juice), vinegar, wine, ethyl alcohol, eau de cologne, and matches. February 23 Licenses were no longer required for imports of silk piece goods known as crepe, and other silk fabrics. March 14 The import of apples and citrus fruits of all kinds was prohibited. March 15 Cigarette paper could be imported freely without license. April 29 Imports of powder cleansers were freed from the licensing re- quirement. May 12 Imports of certain toys and cardboard were freed from the licensing requirement. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Netherlands Guilders 3.80 = US$1. The official rates are f. 3.77 buying, f. 3.83 selling, per US$1. Basically, exchange transactions are effected at uniform rates based on the par value. For Canadian and U.S. dollars, sterling, Belgian francs, French francs, free Swiss francs, Swiss "agreement francs," deutsche marks, Danish kroner, Italian lire, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kroner, and Argentine, Japanese, and Turkish "agreement dollars," spot and for- ward exchange markets have been established. Authorized banks are allowed to cover both spot and forward permitted transactions in these currencies against guilders, in the Amsterdam exchange market and, except for the "agreement dollars," with banks in the country of the currency concerned. Spot transactions take place at rates within a fixed spread of 1 per cent on either side of parity. Forward transactions must be based on permitted merchandise or service transactions. The Netherlands participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, with other authorized banks in any of their curren- cies. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the for- ward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. These currencies may also be bought and sold by authorized banks in Finland against their guilder accounts held with Netherlands author- ized banks. Authorized banks in the Netherlands are also permitted to conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to six months' delivery, multilaterally with banks abroad in convertible currencies (U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and free Swiss francs). Special arrangements apply to exchange related to certain countries or in certain currencies, as follows: (1) Egyptian pounds are traded hi a spot market without official buying or selling rates, as well as in a free survey takes account of certain changes which became effective on January 2, 1956 (see section on Changes during 1955, December 29, below). 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS forward market; (2) Belgian-Luxembourg francs on Financial Accounts (see section on Capital, below) are traded in a spot market at free rates that are, in practice, very close to the official rates. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands overseas territories (the Netherlands Antilles, Surinam, and New Guinea) are subject to ex- change control. However, vis-a-vis third countries with which payments agreements are in force, the Netherlands and its overseas territories constitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. The Republic of Indonesia participates in several of the Netherlands' payments agreements, in particular with EPU countries, and in those cases it also constitutes a part of the Netherlands Monetary Area. Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is conducted by the Nether- lands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, Overseas Ter- ritories, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agriculture. Import licensing and export licensing are handled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CDIU) and its delegated offices, under directives from the Directorate- General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital trans- actions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are all transit trade transactions. Sixty-nine authorized banks are permitted to handle foreign exchange transactions within the scope of general and special licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for transfer abroad, must always be made through an authorized bank, either to the credit of a transfer- able nonresident guilder account held by a foreign bank with an author- ized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's holdings abroad of the currency concerned. Such payments to nonresi- dents must be made in accordance with the prescriptions of Foreign Exchange Notice 1/53 (unless approval has been given to effect the payments in another way ), viz., (1) where a two-account payments agreement is in force, either in guilders held in a nonresident account related to the partner country or in the partner country's currency; (2) for a single-account agreement, in the currency of the agreement; (3) in transactions with the United States and Canada, either by debit- ing an authorized bank's holdings of the respective currencies in the United States or Canada, or by crediting a Free Guilder Account or an 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS appropriate transferable guilder account (American or Canadian Account) held by a U.S. or Canadian bank with an authorized bank; (4) in all other cases, except that of Egypt, in the way indicated in the individual authorization, usually in U.S. dollars or sterling; (5) to Egypt, in Egyptian pounds for most commercial payments and in guil- ders for most other payments; (6) to Brazil, in Belgian francs, deutsche marks, or pounds sterling, as well as in guilders. The prescription of currencies for exchange receipts is similar to that for exchange payments. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are given below. Apart from those listed under 5, they are designated by the country of resi- dence of the account holder. 1. Guilder Agreement Accounts. These are transferable accounts in the names of banks abroad. They are applicable to Canada (Canadian Accounts), to the United States (American Accounts), to those coun- tries with which there are payments agreements providing for accounts in guilders and in the partner's currency or in guilders only,2 and to New Guinea. Guilder Agreement Accounts are transferable to other Guilder Agreement Accounts of the same country or monetary area. They are used for payments and receipts mainly on account of current transactions. They are, in general, convertible into the currency of the country of the account holder in those cases where there is a two- account payments agreement. 2. T Accounts. These accounts also are used for current transactions, and general licenses have been granted for current payments from them to residents. T Accounts are transferable to other T Accounts of the same country or monetary area, and balances on them may be trans- ferred to Guilder Agreement Accounts related to the same country or monetary area. They may be held by all nonresidents (regardless of nationality) except those who reside in Indonesia or those who hold an E Account (see 6, below). Their use for capital transactions is pro- hibited unless the account holder resides or is domiciled in the Nether- lands overseas territories or in a specified convertible currency coun- 2 Payments agreements of these types are in force with EPU countries (except Turkey) and their associated territories, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Finland, East Germany, Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Netherlands Antilles, Para- guay, Poland, Spain, Surinam, U.SJ3.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Other payments agreements are in force with Argentina, Japan, and Turkey, and in these the U.S. dollar is the agreement currency. 228 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS try.3 Balances on T Accounts related to these convertible currency countries are freely convertible into U.S. dollars through authorized banks. 3. N Accounts—Indonesia. These accounts apply only to nonresi- dents residing or domiciled in Indonesia, regardless of nationality. There are special regulations applicable to the crediting and debiting of these accounts. 4. K Accounts. These accounts may be held by all nonresidents,4 regardless of nationality, except those who reside in Indonesia. They are used primarily for investments, but may be debited for some current payments, including travel expenses in the Netherlands up to a daily maximum of f. 100 per person. K Accounts may be transferred to other K Accounts of the same country or monetary area and, if held by resi- dents of EPU countries, may be transferred to T Accounts or trans- ferred through a Guilder Agreement Account to the country of the account holder. Balances on K Accounts held by nonresidents in speci- fied convertible currency countries8 may be repatriated by purchasing "security dollars." K Accounts are classified as follows: (a) K Accounts related to specified convertible currency countries 3 and Switzerland; (b) K Accounts related to other countries; these are subclassified as (i) exportable—the proceeds of the sale or liquidation of securi- ties imported after May 5, 1945 and of securities paid for in U.S. or Canadian dollars, free Swiss francs, or free guilders, as well as of securities that have been acquired out of securi- ties imported after May 5, 1945, or have been paid for in the currencies mentioned—or (ii) nonexportable—all other capital proceeds not eligible for credit to an exportable K Account. Netherlands and Indonesian securities, as well as foreign securities denominated exclusively in guilders, which are purchased to the debit of K Accounts related to the countries mentioned under (a) and of K Accounts described under (b) (i) may be exported. 5. Free Guilder Accounts. These accounts are available to all non- residents. They may be credited with the proceeds in guilders of gold 8 Canada, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, United States, and Venezuela. 4 However, nonresidents who are emigrants from the Netherlands must, after establishing residence abroad, apply to have their balances on E Accounts (see 6, below) transferred to K Accounts. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS sold by nonresidents to the Netherlands Bank, and with Canadian dol- lars, U.S. dollars, and free Swiss francs sold to the Netherlands Bank or an authorized bank. They may, moreover, be credited as follows: with transfers from other Free Guilder Accounts, Canadian Accounts, or American Accounts; with amounts authorized to be credited to Cana- dian or American Accounts; or with amounts authorized to be debited to authorized banks' accounts in Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, or free Swiss francs. Free Guilder Accounts may be debited with transfers to other Free Guilder Accounts, Guilder Agreement Accounts, K Accounts, or T Accounts. They may also be used for all payments within the Netherlands authorized to be made to the debit of an American Account, for the purchase of any foreign exchange by a nonresident, and for making available Netherlands banknotes and Treasury notes to the account holder or other nonresidents. 6. E Accounts. These are accounts held by emigrants from the Netherlands after the date of their departure. On establishing resi- dence abroad, emigrants may, on application, have their balances on E Accounts transferred to K Accounts. 7. Z Accounts (residual group). These accounts are those to which sums of doubtful origin have been credited. The debiting or crediting of Z Accounts is only permitted if expressly allowed by a Foreign Exchange Notice or a general or special license. Imparts and Import Payments For a large number of liberalized goods imported from OEEC coun- tries and their associated areas, Egypt, Indonesia, New Guinea, Surinam, and the Netherlands Antilles, in consignments of f. 10,000 or less, no licenses are required, so that these goods may be imported upon submission of the customs copies of "import statements," prepared by the importers, to the customs. Payments may be effected upon submis- sion of the bank copies of the "import statements" to an authorized bank. If the amount does not exceed f. 200, no "import statement" is required and the import and payment may be effected without docu- ments. All other imports require combined import and exchange licenses. For most goods from OEEC countries and their associated areas, licenses are issued automatically upon application; the related liberalization list also applies to Egypt, Indonesia, New Guinea, Surinam, and the Netherlands Antilles. For most of these same goods imported from the dollar area, licenses are also issued automatically. For nearly all imports from the Belgian Monetary Area also, licenses are issued upon application. 230 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS Import, export, and transit licenses are combined with exchange licenses. In principle, whenever an import and exchange license is obtained, or if no license is required, payment may be effected without delay, provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles exceeding f. 200 are subject to exchange license. Most categories of invisibles, however, are permitted by gen- eral licenses; in these cases, the supervision of the payments rests with the authorized banks. Supporting documents need not be submitted to authorized banks for payments to non-dollar countries, unless the debtor does not carry an account with the bank. For payments under general license to dollar countries, supporting documents must be submitted. Tourist exchange, exclusive of the payment of fares, is provided up to the countervalue in the appropriate currency of f. 1,000 per person per trip for travel to any country with which payments are effected within the scope of monetary agreements concluded by the Netherlands (see footnote 2, above) and to Canada and the United States. This gen- eral license also extends to nonresidents who are domiciled in Indonesia or any of the overseas territories but are staying in the Netherlands temporarily. Residents traveling abroad who hold passports may take with them all foreign notes and negotiable instruments acquired in accordance with a general or special license, and a maximum of f. 200 in domestic notes, which may be spent abroad. Nonresidents may, when leaving the Netherlands, export foreign banknotes and coins up to the equivalent of f. 4,000, or as much more as was declared at the time of entry, as well as f. 1,000 in Netherlands banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to a combined export and exchange license. No special license, however, is required for a large number of goods exported to certain destinations in consignments not exceeding f. 10,000 (in some cases, f. 1,000) in value and provided that payment is received from the country of destination; in such cases, the customs copies of "export statements" should be submitted to the customs and payment may be received upon submission of the bank copies of the statements to an authorized bank. If the value of the goods concerned does not exceed f. 200, no customs or bank copies are required, and the export 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS may be effected and payment received without documents, but the method of payment must be in conformity with the regulations (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). Surrender of export proceeds is not obligatory; but if they are sur- rendered, it must be at the official rate. The collection of export pro- ceeds is obligatory; they must be received in accordance with the pre- scription of currency, and may then be held in appropriate "foreign currency accounts" with authorized banks. The use of such funds is subject to the usual licensing requirements. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles (with minor exceptions) need not be surrendered and may be credited to "foreign currency accounts" instead. For settlement in guilders of incoming exchange exceeding f. 200 derived from current invisible transactions, the recipient must submit to an authorized bank a form "B" indicating the nature of the underlying transaction as well as the amount and currency received. The authorized banks must also verify that the underlying transaction comes within the scope of the categories of transactions for which the Netherlands Bank permits payments to be received from the remitting country by the method chosen, if payment in that case would have to pass through a transferable account held by a Netherlands or foreign central or private bank; but this verification is not required in the case of receipts from Canada, the United States, Indonesia, the Netherlands Antilles, New Guinea, and Surinam. The Netherlands Bank may pre- scribe the submission of evidence as to the origin of each claim and give other directives pertaining to such exchange receipts to the authorized banks. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands f. 1,000 in Netherlands banknotes and unlimited amounts in foreign banknotes and negotiable instruments. These may be sold only to an authorized bank or an authorized exchange office or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Netherlands. Capital Inward and outward capital transfers and the shifting of foreign- owned capital within the Netherlands from one asset to another are subject to control, but general licenses have been granted for many types of capital transaction. Payments for interest, dividends, and con- tractual amortization due to nonresidents are permitted freely to the 232 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS country of their residence by crediting the appropriate T Accounts or Guilder Agreement Accounts. Residents may buy foreign securities from, or sell them to, other residents. They may also sell foreign securities abroad, but in such cases, the sales proceeds must be obtained in the currency in which payment of the principal or interest may be demanded. The exchange so acquired must be deposited with an authorized bank or securities broker in the Netherlands and may be sold or credited to an account denominated in the same foreign currency. Accounts of this type in which dollar proceeds are held are called "security dollar" accounts; all the others are called "reinvestment" accounts. These accounts may be credited also with capital repayments and similar items and used to effect capital payments in the currencies concerned. Residents may also buy foreign securities abroad, insofar as payment is made out of any balances abroad which cannot be transferred to the Netherlands owing to the foreign exchange regulations of the countries in which the balances are outstanding; real estate may also be bought to the debit of such balances. In addition, the Netherlands Bank is prepared to grant licenses to residents for the purchase of foreign securities in EPU countries. These securities must be quoted officially and the principal and interest or dividends must be payable in an EPU currency. Pay- ment for such purchases must be effected in an EPU currency.5 Under an arrangement between the Netherlands, Belgium, and Lux- embourg, all capital transactions between them are conducted through a free market in which practically all capital payments may be made either under a general license or by individual licenses granted auto- matically. These payments are made in the Netherlands through K Accounts in guilders, and in Belgium-Luxembourg through Financial Accounts in Belgian or Luxembourg francs kept in the names of Netherlands authorized banks and securities brokers. Residents of Belgium-Luxembourg and residents of the Netherlands may trade K Account guilders against Financial Account francs. Securities ex- pressed in Netherlands guilders or in one of the currencies of the Bel- gian Monetary Area, and Indonesian securities, may be purchased and sold without restriction. Moreover, residents of Belgium-Luxembourg may purchase foreign securities from Netherlands residents to the debit of a K Account or to the credit of a Financial Account, with the exception of securities denominated in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, 5 Effective January 14, 1956, this was made the subject of a general license and individual licenses were no longer required. By virtue of this general license, securities of which the principal and interest or dividends are payable in ILS. or Canadian dollars may also be purchased with EPU currency, 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS or Swiss francs and of U.S., Canadian, or Swiss securities of no par value. Residents of other EPU countries may have the proceeds of the sale of capital invested in the Netherlands transferred to them through the normal payment channels.8 New capital investments in the Netherlands by nonresidents are in general permitted only if made in convertible currencies, but there are special facilities for such investments by residents of Belgium- Luxembourg. Capital proceeds held by nonresidents in K Accounts may be reinvested in the Netherlands. The export of Netherlands securities and Indonesian securities and of foreign securities denominated exclusively in guilders, not belonging to residents of Belgium-Luxembourg, is allowed insofar as (1) the owner resides in the United States, Canada, Cuba, the Dominican Re- public, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, Switzerland, or Venezuela; (2) the securities concerned have been imported into the Netherlands after May 5,1945, or have been acquired by switching securities imported after that date; (3) the securities con- cerned have been paid for in convertible currency. In these three cases the securities are, on exportation, provided with "red documents." Emigrants are permitted to export on departure foreign exchange to the countervalue of f. 4,000 for an individual emigrant or for the head of a family, plus f. 2,000 for each member of the family, in addition to personal effects, and f. 25,000 for the establishment of a domicile and/or the independent exercise of a profession or trade. On departure from the Netherlands, their guilder funds are held on E Accounts. On establish- ing residence abroad, emigrants may apply to have their E Accounts converted into K Accounts and to have their income credited to T Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Thus, as balances standing to the credit of K Accounts may be transferred to EPU countries, emigrants to those countries may have all their capital transferred to their new country of residence; emigrants to dollar coun- tries may have their capital transferred by purchasing "security dol- lars" to the debit of their K Accounts. Changes during 1955 January 4 Special facilities for handling exchange transactions were granted to authorized contractors acting on behalf of nonresidents in connection with the operation of the futures market in crude linseed oil. 6 However, the regulations of Switzerland permit Swiss residents to receive capital from other EPU countries only through free exchange markets. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS January 10 Proceeds received through the Netherlands-Brazilian agreement account for Netherlands exports to Brazil would be made available to Netherlands exporters only if they were in possession of a valid export license and could prove that at least one hundred eightieths of the amount received from Brazil had previously been paid to Brazil through the agreement account for Netherlands imports from Brazil. February 18 Payments between the Netherlands and Austria were decentralized; i.e., payments could now be settled through the accounts of the author- ized banks in the two countries and not only through the two central banks. Rates for the Austrian schilling would now be quoted by the Netherlands Bank. February 26 The simplified declaration procedure was applied to the import and export of a number of goods to and from certain countries, provided the value did not exceed f. 10,000. For certain exports to these countries, the limit remained at f. 1,000. April? Netherlands residents were free to buy foreign securities from one another through banks or brokers, payment to be made in guilders. Moreover, Netherlands banks and brokers could use funds held in "security dollar" (formerly "Arbus dollar") accounts to purchase securities denominated in guilders from residents of the United States. April 20 Authorized banks were permitted to sell foreign banknotes in Swit- zerland, not only against other foreign banknotes and free Swiss francs, as previously, but also against credit to a dollar account with a cor- respondent in Canada or the United States. May 9 Special facilities for handling exchange transactions were granted to the authorized resident brokers acting on behalf of nonresidents in connection with the operation of the coffee futures markets (Amster- dam and Rotterdam) that were being reopened. Special facilities for handling exchange transactions were granted also to the authorized brokers acting on behalf of nonresidents in con- 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS nection with the operation of the copra futures market that was being reopened. May 31 Export bonus dollar accounts could no longer be credited. Prior to this, credits had been possible for dollar exports made on the basis of contracts concluded prior to October 18, 1953. July 11 The exchange control regulations that made it obligatory for Nether- lands residents to declare and surrender gold and U.S. and Canadian banknotes and coins and to declare and surrender designated foreign securities were canceled. (The only remaining surrender requirements apply to dollar travel allowances not fully utilized and dollar bank- notes, coins, and negotiable instruments obtained from services.) July 15 Finnish banks were permitted to buy and sell, to the debit or credit of their guilder accounts, multilaterally negotiable EPU currencies from and to authorized banks in the Netherlands. Special licenses would, however, continue to be required for transfers in guilders be- tween accounts related to Finland and accounts related to those EPU countries whose currencies are multilaterally negotiable. August 1 Export bonus dollar accounts were canceled. Outstanding balances were treated as balances on ordinary dollar accounts. A general license made it possible for U.S. and Canadian residents to repatriate guilder balances on K Accounts by purchasing "security dollars" through authorized banks and security brokers. Previously, such repatriation had been possible only by purchasing guilder securi- ties in the Netherlands and exporting them for sale abroad. August 10 A revised general license increased from f. 400 to f. 1,000 the amount which could be remitted under a simplified procedure to nonresidents in the dollar area in respect of specified invisible transactions. Another revised general license increased from f. 1,000 to f. 5,000 the amount which could be remitted under a simplified procedure to nonresidents in most countries except Canada and the United States. (The limit of 236 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS f. 400 had been in operation as from October 5, 1953 and the limit of f. 1,000 as from October 31, 1952.) August 22 Italian lire were quoted on the official exchange market. Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. Authorized banks could continue to conclude forward transactions in lire with their customers; however, such forward exchange contracts could no longer be reconcluded with the Netherlands Bank, but could be negotiated in the foreign exchange market with other authorized banks. In accordance with a new monetary agreement with Brazil, the guilder replaced the Netherlands-Brazilian agreement dollar as the currency of settlement. Payments between the two countries were decentralized; i.e., they could now be made through the accounts of Brazilian authorized banks maintained with Netherlands authorized banks. In addition, payments to Brazil could be made in deutsche marks, pounds sterling, or German "agreement dollars," and payments from Brazil could be received in deutsche marks or pounds sterling. August 27 Free Guilder Accounts could be opened for nonresidents in Indonesia. September 14 The facility available to U.S. and Canadian residents to repatriate guilder balances on K Accounts by purchasing "security dollars" (see August 1, above) was extended to residents of the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Panama, and Venezuela. At the same time, residents of these dollar countries were permitted to purchase all foreign securities (including dollar securities) in the Netherlands to the debit of their K Accounts, with the exception of Belgian, Luxembourg, and Belgian Congo securities. The possibilities for residents of other countries to purchase in the Netherlands securities not denominated in dollars or Swiss, Belgian, Luxembourg, or Belgian Congo francs were also increased. December 5 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for forward transactions not exceeding 90 days, in the multilateral exchange arbi- 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS trage arrangements in operation among most Western European coun- tries (see August 22, above). December 29 Four general licenses were issued, to be effective January 2, 1956: (1) The limit of f. 5,000 on freely permitted transfers for specified invisible transactions (see August 10, above) was removed and this facility, previously applicable to payments to nonresidents in most countries except Canada and the United States, was extended to non- residents in all non-dollar countries. Also, transfer was permitted freely for more types of transaction. Another general license simplified the procedure for the payment of royalties to dollar countries. (2) Resi- dents were permitted to negotiate on a cash basis with other residents, including authorized banks, the Western European currencies in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements, at rates within the official limits. (3) The facility by which balances on T Accounts related to certain dollar countries were convertible into U.S. dollars through authorized banks was extended to T Accounts related to Cuba and Haiti. (4) Emigrants were enabled to obtain remittance of their capital to EPU countries, and to dollar countries through K Accounts and the purchase of "security dollars." 238 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rate System The par value is Nicaraguan Cordobas 7.00 = US$1. The correspond- ing official rates are C$7.00 per US$1 (buying) for all exchange proceeds other than from exports and C$7.0525 per US$1 (selling) for all author- ized payments. A temporary buying rate of C$6.60 per US$1 applies to all export proceeds. A fluctuating free market for foreign notes and coins is used for travel and certain other transactions (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Issue Department of the National Bank of Nicaragua, which issues import and export permits and allocates import commodities to the established categories of essen- tial, semiessential, and nonessential goods, for the purpose of advance deposit requirements. All sales of exchange pass through the Issue Department and the Banking Department of the National Bank or through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency; incoming and outgoing pay- ments normally are made in U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions or prohibitions on imports. All imports are subject to license, but licenses are issued automatically and without delay. Three import categories have been established: List I (essential), List II (semiessential), and List III (nonessential). Before making an application to import, the importer must deposit in domestic currency 75 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports in List II and 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports in List III. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles at the official selling rate are subject to prior authorization, which is granted only for the following classes of pay- ments: government payments, students' expenditures, insurance and reinsurance premiums, and remittances on account of registered foreign 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA investments and of registered foreign loans. Other invisibles are usually paid for through the free market. Domestic currency notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are subject to a licensing procedure similar to that for imports, which serves to ensure that all exchange receipts are sur- rendered at the C$6.60 rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered at the C$7.00 rate. Domestic currency notes may be imported freely. Capital Under the Law on Foreign Investments of February 26, 1955 (effec- tive March 11, 1955), foreign investments approved by the National Bank and registered are granted favorable treatment. Foreign invest- ments may be effected in any form, and if in foreign exchange, the exchange must be surrendered. The registration of foreign capital is recorded in the currency of the country of origin. The law provides that exchange operations in respect of foreign investments are to be carried out at the exchange rate applicable to the essential import cate- gory on the day of the transaction. Visible imports for investment pur- poses are exempt from the prior deposit requirements. Foreign invest- ments are granted the following privileges: (1) free repatriation of the registered capital; (2) free transfer of earnings, profits, or interest on the capital; and (3) free re-exportation of goods imported for invest- ment. Profits not transferred abroad during the year following the year in which they were earned and not registered as foreign capital are treated as domestic capital. Remittances on account of foreign investments effected prior to March 11, 1955 are subject to individual approval by the National Bank, with the limitation that remittances for profits or amortization may not exceed 10 per cent of the capital per year. Transfers of a capital nature on account of residents are subject to individual licenses, which prescribe the applicable exchange rate. Banknotes Foreign currency notes may be negotiated in the free market. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (cordobas per U.S. dollar) Buying 6.60 (Official Export Rate) All export proceeds. 7.00 (Official Rate) Most invisibles. Registered capital. 7.40 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Foreign banknotes and coins. Changes during 1955 Selling 7.0525 (Official Rate) All imports. Government payments. Students7 expenses. Insurance pre- miums. Registered capital. 7.50 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Other invisibles, including travel. March 11 A new foreign investment law (Decree No. 10) provided for unre- stricted export of foreign capital, including equipment, registered under the law, as well as of net profits on such capital. Julyl The par value was changed to C$7.00 per US$1, and a basic rate of C$7.00 per US$1 was established for all exchange transactions in the official market other than export receipts. This reform of the multiple rate structure included the elimination of the exchange surcharges of C$1 and C$3 per US$1 (applicable to semiessential and nonessential imports, respectively, as well as to most invisibles), the preferential selling rate of C$5.00 per US$1 (used for government payments), and the 5 per cent exchange tax on payments for some invisibles. The C$6.60 rate was continued on a temporary basis for all export proceeds, but receipts from invisibles and capital were granted the C$7.00 rate. July 15 New classifications for imports were established, for the purpose of applying the following advance deposit requirements: List I, no de- posit; List II, 75 per cent deposit; and List III, 100 per cent deposit. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Exchange Rate System The par value is Norwegian Kroner 7.14286 = US$1. The official rates for telegraphic transfers are NKr 7.135 buying, NKr 7.150 sell- ing, per US$1. Parity rates for other currencies are based on the par value for the U.S. dollar. Norway participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, with other authorized banks in any of these terri- tories. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Administration of Control In principle, all imports and exports require licenses granted by the Ministry of Commerce. However, goods listed on the so-called "free list" may be imported against a free list license, which is granted auto- matically, or against a "declaration." All payments to nonresidents, and vice versa, must be made through one of the Norwegian authorized banks or through the Bank of Norway. Generally, all payments require approval from either the Ministry of Commerce (in respect of goods) or the Bank of Norway (in respect of invisibles). However, the author- ized banks may effect payments to nonresidents in settlement of goods on the "free list," and to a certain extent payments to nonresidents in respect of invisibles may be made without prior permission from the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the methods in which payments to and receipts from nonresidents are to be made is set out in the payments agreements concluded with other countries.1 Usually, inward and outward payments must be made in either Norwegian kroner or the currency of the country of the nonresident (double-account payments agreements), or in a 1 Norway has payments agreements with Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, Spain, U.S.S.R., and Yugo- slavia, as well as with EPU countries. There is a compensation agreement with East Germany. 242 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY single currency (single-account payments agreements). Payments effected in Norwegian kroner are made into and out of free accounts held in Norwegian kroner with the authorized banks (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident account held in Norwegian kroner with the authorized banks: free accounts and blocked accounts. Free accounts may be used for all payments to and from the country of the nonresident holder. Any balance in a free account may be converted at any time into the currency of the country of the holder. Nonresident-owned capital, which normally cannot be transferred abroad, is deposited in blocked accounts. These accounts may be used by the holder for various expenses in Norway, such as personal taxes, insurance premiums, and traveling expenses, and for investment in bonds that are issued in Norwegian kroner only, are quoted on a Norwegian stock exchange, and do not mature earlier than five years from the date of purchase. Bonds acquired in this way may either be deposited with an authorized Norwegian bank or be sent to the owner abroad. imports and Import Payments All goods on the so-called "free list" may be imported freely from OEEC countries and their associated areas and from Czechoslovakia, Finland, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, the Spanish Monetary Area, and Yugoslavia. All other imports require import licenses. Nor- way has not yet established any formal "free list" relating to imports from the dollar area. However, a number of commodities from the dollar area are subject to a liberal import policy —particularly commodi- ties that are on the Norwegian "free list" for imports from OEEC coun- tries—and these represent about 70 per cent of total imports on private account from the dollar area. If no license is required, or when an import license is obtained, pay- ment may be effected without delay, subject to presentation of a copy of the import declaration or a copy of the import license, and provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Exchange for payments to nonresidents for most current invisible transactions is granted freely. Norwegian tourists to EPU countries, 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY Finland, Spain, and Yugoslavia are granted the equivalent of NKr 700 per year for each adult. Each person leaving Norway may export NKr 99 in Norwegian bank- notes. Nonresidents leaving Norway may export any foreign bank- notes that they can prove they brought into the country. Exports and Export Proceeds With the exception of a few commodities that may be exported freely to certain countries, all exports are subject to license.2 Payment must be received in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above). All exchange resulting from exports must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Incoming receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may import NKr 99 in Norwegian banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresi- dents are subject to approval by the Bank of Norway. Outward trans- fers of capital are subject to individual license, the granting of which depends on such circumstances as the merits of the case, the transfer possibilities under the relevant payments agreement, the possibility of compensation with Norwegian assets abroad, etc. Outward transfers in respect of investments effected in Norway after the war can be pro- vided for in accordance with the terms of approval of the investment. Payments for contractual amortization are permitted freely. In accordance with an agreement concluded by Norway with Den- mark, Sweden, and the United Kingdom in 1950, capital transfers to these countries normally are permitted. Transfers to the United States and Canada may take place within certain limits. Above these limits, transfer depends upon the merits of the case, but inherited capital assets owned by residents of the United States and Canada may be transferred freely. Repatriation of moderate amounts of other nonresi- dent-owned capital is permitted in cases of hardship. The export and import of, and all transactions in, securities involving nonresident inter- ests are subject to approval. 2 An export "free list" is, however, in course of preparation. 244 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securi- ties, have to be surrendered. Investments and transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents are subject to approval, which is granted restrictively. Changes during 1955 July 18 Authorized banks could receive Norwegian banknotes in certain denominations sent in from banks in Denmark or Sweden and could credit them to the nonresident account of the remitting bank. Author- ized banks could buy from Danish, Swedish, or resident travelers Dan- ish or Swedish banknotes in certain denominations and could sell them to travelers or send them abroad to their correspondent banks in Den- mark or Sweden, respectively. August 10 Exchange allocations for emigrants were eased by allowing an amount equivalent to US$300 per family to be taken out freely upon emigration to EPU countries, the United States, or Canada. August 15 The Exchange Control Law of July 14, 1950 came into effect. represented a recodification of the existing regulations. The maximum amount in Norwegian banknotes that each traveler may take in or out of Norway was raised f rom NKr 50 to NKr 99. It August 22 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. December 5 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, in the multilateral ex- change arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN Exchange Rate System The par value is Pakistan Rupees 4.7619 = US$1. Exchange trans- actions are effected at un iform rates. All transactions in foreign ex- change must be conducted through authorized dealers, whose trans- actions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pakistan on the basis of par values established by the Fund and its members. Authorized dealers in Pakistan are permitted to cover in the London market their requirements of certain specified foreign exchange. They may also cover their permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees either spot, or forward for a limited period, with their agents in the countries concerned. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be effected through author- ized dealers. The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 21 com- mercial banks authority to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise surrender requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes within limits prescribed by the State Bank. Prescription of Currency Regulations prescribe the currencies to be used for both trade and nontrade payments with different countries and monetary areas. The prescribed methods are similar to those of the United Kingdom and most other Sterling Area territories. Exchange receipts have to be obtained through a bank. Receipts from non-Sterling Area countries must be obtained either in sterling through a nonresident account in the United Kingdom related to any Transferable Account country, Canada, or an American Account country, according to the country con- cerned, or, in some cases, in other specified currencies. Receipts from Sterling Area countries (other than India) must be received in Pakistan rupees or sterling from the account of a resident in the Sterling Area other than a resident of India or Pakistan. Payments abroad by residents of Pakistan to countries within the Sterling Area are made by the transfer of sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, including Pakistan rupees, to the appropriate account of a nonresident; payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by the transfer of sterling or Pakistan rupees to an account 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN related to any Transferable Account country, Canada, or an American Account country, according to the residence of the recipient, or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. Temporarily, however, imports from France and all cotton exports to France covered by special pay- ments arrangements may be settled only in French francs. Exchange transactions with India are settled only in Indian or Pakistan rupees. Transactions with Afghanistan are settled in Pakistan rupees. Nonresident Accounts Different rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of individuals, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for foreign banks without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers from non- resident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other nonresident account holders must obtain permission from the exchange control for transfers from their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India held prior to the imposition of exchange control with India are governed by separate regulations. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license, except goods imported by the Central Government for defense purposes, goods for which orders are placed directly by the departments of the Central Government, certain goods imported over the land route from Afghanistan, and certain other items permitted under a Ministry of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24, June 12,1951). Individual import licenses can be used in any country of the world, except for items imported with a single country license under the terms of the trade agreement with that country. Import licenses are issued only on a c. & f. basis. Foreign exchange under the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) is made available upon receipt of an import license from the applicant. His application must, however, be placed through an authorized bank in the exchange control area in which he resides. Imports of capital goods on a deferred payments basis from Japan and the United Kingdom, as well as from other countries, may in some cases be approved. These arrangements provide for an advance remit- tance not exceeding 10 per cent of the value at the time of placing the order, remittance of 15 per cent on complete shipment of the goods, and the balance in approximately equal half-yearly installments over a 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN period of five years from the date of contract or the date of shipment, as the case may be. Some imports of iron, steel, and nonferrous metals are also allowed on a deferred payments basis. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and require licenses. Authorized dealers may sell exchange or make remittances in accordance with detailed regulations. Although remittances for business and commercial purposes normally are permitted, remittances of a personal nature either are subject to annual quotas or are permitted on their individual merits. Separate regulations govern payments to India for such purposes as travel, family maintenance, etc. Remittances by Pakistan nationals to their families abroad require special authority. Foreign exchange is granted for expenses incidental to trade trans- actions, but not to importers for transport insurance, which may only be effected with insurance companies in Pakistan. Exchange is granted for transfers abroad of dividends and other earnings due to nonresidents. Payment for international travel fares is permitted if certain condi- tions are met. The allocation of exchange for tourist travel is subject to basic annual rations, which vary according to the country to be visited; however, there is no basic ration for tourist travel to North, Central, and South America and the Philippine Republic, applications for which are considered on their individual merits. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in. Residents of Pakistan leaving for Afghan- istan may take with them Afghan currency without limit; for travel to other countries, foreign currency notes up to the equivalent of PRs 50 per person at any one time or sterling notes not exceeding £10 may be taken out. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of selected commodities is allowed, free of export con- trol, under open general license. Other commodities are subject to export license. In both cases, the State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter to ensure surrender of the foreign exchange earned. An authorized dealer is required to certify an export shipment after making sure that the exporter's declaration meets specified conditions. The exporter declares that, when payment in accordance with the pre- scribed method (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) is re- 248 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN ceived, he will surrender the specified foreign currency within a certain period of time. Exporters of certain primary goods may retain 15 per cent of their exchange receipts, and exporters of certain manufactured goods may retain 25 per cent, to use for their own specified imports (see section on Changes during 1955, October 25, below). Proceeds from Invisibles Incoming foreign exchange from invisibles, with the exception of certain currencies x which may be retained, must be surrendered at the official rate within one month. Travelers entering Pakistan are per- mitted to bring with them Pakistan currency notes up to PRs 250 per person, sterling notes up to £10 per person, and coins that are legal tender in India up to Rs 5 per person. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes, subject to declaration to the customs. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In accordance with the foreign investment policy, foreign investors may invest capital, up to 60 per cent of the total of local and foreign invest- ment, in 27 approved industries. The extent of foreign investment in public utility concerns (other than the 27 approved industries) is con- sidered on merits and decided separately in each case. The trans- fer of capital abroad and the repatriation of investments other than those of U.K. origin are not normally permitted, except where this has been arranged by prior agreement with the Government or is in accord- ance with the foreign investment policy. Capital invested after Septem- ber 1,1954 in industrial projects approved by the Government of Pakis- tan may be repatriated at any time thereafter —subject to the exchange control regulations in force—to the country in which the investment originated and to the extent of the original investment; any profits derived from investment which are reinvested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government of Pakistan may be treated as investment for the purpose of repatriation; appreciation of any such capital investment may also be treated as investment for re- patriation purposes. For an investment by means of goods or services, the amount of capital is the rupee value of such goods or services as recorded in the books of the company or firm concerned at the time of investment. These repatriation facilities do not apply to purchases of 1The currencies of Aden, Afghanistan, Belgian Congo, Burma, Ceylon, East Africa, French Africa, India, Portuguese territories in India, Madagascar, Malaya, Mauritius, Nepal, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, South Africa, and Tibet. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN shares on the stock exchange, unless the shares are an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Pakistan before September 1, 1954. Under the foreign investment policy, if any undertaking is nationalized, just and equitable compensation will be paid to the dispossessed owners and will be freely remittable to the country of residence of the foreign owners. Detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the country or monetary area to which transfers are to be made. Under an agreement with the United Kingdom, the transfer of capital assets belonging to U.K. nationals is authorized freely by the State Bank. Other foreign nationals resident in Pakistan are permitted to transfer capital assets up to UK£5,000. Residents are permitted to buy and sell foreign securities upon approval by the State Bank, pro- vided the foreign exchange proceeds resulting from such sales are sur- rendered. Transfers of capital abroad by residents are not permitted. The export of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquida- tion of nonresident capital assets may be credited to blocked accounts. Balances on blocked accounts may be invested in appproved securities payable in Pakistan rupees. Changes during 1955 January 1 Import licensing on the basis of three currency areas—the dollar area, the non-dollar area, and certain trade agreement countries—was abolished. All items on the import list for the first half of 1955 could be purchased in any country of the world, with the exception of items imported under the terms of bilateral agreements with licenses issued on a single country basis. January IB Nonferrous metal imports were added to the iron and steel imports that can be made under deferred payments arrangements. January 27 A new trade agreement, valid until September 14, 1955, was con- cluded with Japan. 250 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN March 19 A new trade agreement, valid from January 1,1955 to June 30,1956, was concluded with the Federal Republic of Germany. April 27 Export forms were no longer to be certified by authorized dealers unless arrangements had been made to ensure that the shipping docu- ments would be received by an authorized dealer. May 4 A new trade agreement, valid from July 1,1955 to June 30,1956, was concluded with Ceylon. May 11 It was announced that proceeds from exports to the Transferable Account Area could be received in any specified currency freely offered and transferable to the United Kingdom. The exchange allowance for the 1955 season for pilgrims going to Hejaz was announced. May 27 It was announced that, in order to facilitate the stocking of essential goods, imports of various approved items would be permitted on a con- signment basis. Goods could be imported initially without any remit- tance of foreign exchange, at the risk of the importer. The goods could be released only on presentation of a valid import license. (However, this consignment scheme had not been finalized at the time this Report was prepared.) June 11 An exchange allowance was announced for pilgrims traveling to Hejaz via Bahrein by the sea-cum-air route. July The export incentive scheme was extended to September. July 1 Turkey was included in the Transferable Account Area. 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN July 13 With certain exceptions, all bills of lading, railway receipts, airway bills, and any other documents of title to cargo referring to exports had to be drawn in favor of or to the order of an authorized dealer in Pakistan. July 19 A new trade agreement, valid from September 1, 1955 to August 31, 1956, was concluded with India. July 31 The par value of the Pakistan rupee was changed from PRs 3.30852 per US$1 to PRs 4.7619 per US$1. August 22 The Italian lira was included in the list of specified currencies. September 21 The trade agreement with Japan (see January 27, above) was ex- tended to January 31,1956. September 30 The export incentive scheme expired. October 17 A new trade agreement with France, valid from July 1, 1955 to June 30, 1956, was concluded. The payments agreement with France continued in force. October 25 A new export promotion scheme was announced which entitled ex- porters of certain primary commodities to retain 15 per cent of their exchange receipts for use against their own imports of 46 specified items, and exporters of certain manufactured articles to retain 25 per cent of their exchange receipts to pay for their own imports of transport equip- ment, machinery, and raw materials needed in their industries. 252 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN November 14 The basic travel allowance for Lebanon was raised from PRs 400 to UK£75 per travel year. November 22 The basic travel allowance for Pakistan nationals leaving for employ- ment abroad was reduced to £25 for the group of countries for which an allowance of £150 was otherwise available. December 1 Persons entering Pakistan could bring with them Pakistan currency notes up to PRs 250 per person, instead of PRs 100, as previously. 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate Systeml The par value is Paraguayan Guaranies 21 = US$1, and this is the basic rate in the official market. Certain government payments are made at the basic rate, while payments for government imports are made at a rate of $ 27 per US$1. Imports are divided into categories, to which various selling rates apply. One set of rates applies to import payments in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, deutsche marks, and Belgian francs, and another set applies to payments in other currencies. The basic rate applies to export proceeds, but other effective rates are created by "exchange subsidies" applied to most exports and an export tax applied to a few exports. Many exports receive higher effective rates as a result of the negotiation, in the "free" market con- trolled by the Central Bank, of export proceeds in excess of the officially appraised value (aforo differential). Payments for invisibles are made at official rates of 0 21, $ 42, $ 50, $ 60, or $ 75, per US$1. The controlled "free" market is also used for certain invisibles, as well as for registered capital transactions. Other nontrade transactions may be effected freely at fluctuating rates in a market conducted by exchange houses. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of Paraguay, which issues all exchange licenses required in the official market and the controlled "free" market. Exchange transactions in the two mar- kets must be effected through the Central Bank. No control is exercised over the fluctuating free market of the exchange houses. Prescription of Currency Paraguay maintains payments agreements with several countries, according to which exchange payments and receipts must be effected through clearing accounts in specified currencies.2 1 On March 1, 1956, Paraguay established a new par value of <& 60 = US$1, applicable to all exchange transactions except (1) payments for nonessential im- ports, which are subject to an exchange surcharge of (& 25 per US$1 (effective rate, <& 85 per US$1), and (2) capital and certain invisible transactions that are con- ducted in a free exchange market. All exchange taxes, subsidies, and rate mixing devices applicable to exports were abolished. Orderly cross rates were established in the official market. 2For this purpose, the following agreement account countries are specified: Argentina, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, France, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Spain, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 254 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Imports and Import Payments Imports may enter Paraguay only if an exchange contract having the effect of an import and exchange license has been concluded with the Central Bank. Imports may be made only against irrevocable docu- mentary letters of credit, with certain exceptions approved on a case- to-case basis. In general, restrictions are applied to both essential and nonessential items. Imports are divided into five categories, some of which are sub- divided. One set of exchange rates applies to payments in "convertible" currencies,3 and there are other effective rates for payments in other currencies (see Table of Exchange Rates and footnote 4, below). In addition, licenses are granted for imports with "own exchange." Within 45 days of the approval of an import license, an importer must make a prior deposit in local currency amounting to 100 per cent of the import value (70 per cent for imports in Groups I through IV against sight draf ts). These deposits are placed with the commercial banks, which must pass them on to the Central Bank each day. In granting licenses for imports, there is some discrimination based on the limited availability of "convertible" currencies. Prescription of currencies is applied to payments for imports from countries with which Paraguay has payments agreements (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Most government payments are effected at the rate of $ 21 and other government payments at $ 42, per US$1. Other payments for invisibles are made at rates of 0 21, $ 42, <£ 50, <£ 60, $ 68.25 (controlled "free" rate), and $ 75, per US$1. These payments are subject to individual exchange license. No licenses are required for payments through the exchange houses. Exports and Export Proceeds A sales declaration must be approved by the Central Bank for all exports, and an obligation to return to Paraguay the exchange proceeds of exports must be undertaken before shipment of the goods. With cer- tain exceptions, irrevocable letters of credit are required for exports. The foreign currencies to be received for exports are specified (see sec- 3 For this purpose, the following currencies are listed as "convertible": TLS. dol- lars, pounds sterling, deutsche marks, Belgian francs, and Swiss francs. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY tion on Prescription of Currency, above). A few goods for domestic consumption that are in short supply require export licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The export of strategic mate- rials to Mainland China, North Korea, and certain other countries is prohibited. Exchange proceeds of exports must be surrendered to the Central Bank at the 0 21 rate, in accordance with the sales declaration, to the extent of the officially appraised value (aforo) of the goods; the differ- ence between this value and the actual receipts may be sold in the con- trolled "free" market if the export proceeds are in "convertible" cur- rencies (see footnote 3, above). The aforo differential is negotiated at $ 57.50 per US$1 for export proceeds resulting from sales to Sweden and certain agreement countries (Austria, France, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, and Uruguay), and at $ 52.50 per US$1 for export proceeds resulting from sales to other agreement countries. An export tax of 28 per cent is applied to a few exports, and many exports receive "exchange subsidies" ranging up to $ 39 per US$1, or effective rates up to 0 60 per US$1. For certain exports (cotton, tobacco, hides, que- bracho, tung oil, castor oil), the effective buying rates applied when the proceeds are in "nonconvertible" currencies result in the exporter receiving some 5 to 20 per cent less local currency than for proceeds received in "convertible" currencies. Export firms who possess foreign exchange resources or obtain foreign credit may enter into "exchange swaps" with the Central Bank. Under these arrangements, the exporting firm sells foreign currency to the Central Bank on a spot basis, thus acquiring guaranies, and at the same time a forward contract is concluded by which the firm obtains the right to repurchase the foreign exchange against guaranies at the same rate within a period of 180 days, renewable for a further period of 180 days. An exchange rate of $ 47 per US$1 is applied to these transactions. Exchange proceeds resulting from the sale of exports are surrendered against guaranies, which are then used to acquire foreign currency under the terms of the forward contract. Similar arrangements exist in respect of prepayments in foreign exchange received by ex- porters, but the rate is set in each case by the Central Bank. Proceed* from Invisibles Registered insurance, government receipts, and a few minor items are the only invisibles for which exchange proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Receipts from freight and certain other invisibles must be surrendered at the controlled "free" rate. Receipts from all other 256 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY invisibles may be negotiated freely in the free market of the exchange houses. Capital Foreign capital registered by the Central Bank must be surrendered at the controlled "free" rate. Transfers from Paraguay of such capital and earnings thereon are effected through the controlled "free" market, but are subject to exchange license. Foreign investments may be reg- istered if they fulfill a number of conditions, e.g., if they are con- sidered advantangeous to the economic and social development of the nation. According to Law No. 246 of February 25, 1955, which estab- lished a system for foreign capital investment in Paraguay, foreign capital in various forms is eligible for registration and thus secures certain privileges. Among these is the allocation of foreign exchange for transfer abroad of interest, profits, dividends, amortization, and royal- ties on registered capital up to 20 per cent annually of the registered capital. However, should such exchange not be allocated, for balance of payments reasons, the enterprise concerned can be authorized by the Central Bank to retain up to 25 per cent (and in some cases up to 50 per cent) of the foreign exchange derived from its exports. Remittances of profits and other income and the repatriation of registered capital are made at the controlled "free" market rate in the same currency as that in which the original investment was registered, but are subject to exchange license. Unregistered foreign capital may enter freely through the fluctuating free market of the exchange houses. No licenses are required for capital transfers through the exchange houses, and such transfers may be made freely by both residents and nonresidents at a fluctuating free rate. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (guaranies per U.S. dollar) Buying 21.00 (Basic Rate) Nominal rate for all exports.5 Govern- ment receipts and certain other invis- ibles (registered insurance, import and bank commissions, etc.). Selling 4 21.00 (Basic Rate) Certain government payments (public debt, diplomatic expenditures, etc.). Certain other invisibles (communica- tions, bank remittances, etc.). 27.00 «& 21 plus <B 6 Surcharge) Group I imports (insecticides). Gov- ernment imports. 35.00 (<B 21 plus G 14 Surcharge) Group II imports (seeds). 36.00 (@ 21 plus <B 15 Surcharge) Wheat imports. 42.00 (<B 21 plus <B 21 Surcharge) Other government payments (passenger fares, students* expenses, etc.). Ship re- pair payments. Freight and certain other invisible payments to Argentina. 45.00 (<& 21 plus <& 24 Surcharge) Group III imports (agricultural imple- ments and machinery, medicines, news- print, etc.). 4 The import rates listed apply to transactions in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, Swiss and Belgian francs, and deutsche marks. The effective import rates applied to other currencies are as follows (in guaranies per U.S. dollar): Import Category Import Rate Group I ft 21 Group II ft 27 Group III ft 36 Group IV, Sections 1 and 2 ft 50 Group IV, Section 3 ft 55 Group V, Section 1 ft 60 Group V, Section 2 ft 65 5 Most exports are subject to "exchange subsidies" applied to the ft 21 rate, which range from 28 per cent to 185 per cent and yield effective export rates of up to ft 60 per US$1. However, the effective exchange rates applied to proceeds in "nonconvertible" currencies for certain exports (cotton, tobacco, hides, que- bracho, tung oil, castor oil) result in the exporter receiving some 5 to 20 per cent less in local currency than for proceeds received in "convertible" currencies. Other effective rates are created by negotiation of ajoro differentials at the controlled "free" rate and at other rates (ft 57.50 and ft 52.50) set by the Central Bank. An exchange tax of 28 per cent applied to a few minor exports yields an effective rate of ft 15.12 per US$1. 258 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (guaranies per U.S. dollar) PARAGUAY Buying 67.70 (Controlled "Free" Market Rate) Registered foreign capital. Export aforo differentials. Freight, insurance, and some other invisibles. 91.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Other invisibles. Unregistered capital. Changes during 1955 January 1 Selling 50.00 (<& 21 plus (f 29 Surcharge) Certain expenses of semiofficial agen- cies. Freight and certain other invisible payments to Uruguay. Tractor imports. 55.00 (<B 21 plus G 34 Surcharge) Group IV (Sections 1 and 2) imports (foodstuffs, trucks, certain machinery, raw materials, etc.). 60.00 (<B 21 plus (r 39 Surcharge) Group IV (Section 3) imports (gaso- line, less essential foodstuffs and other goods). Freight and other charges for exports. 65.00 (G 21 plus G 44 Surcharge) Group V (Section 1) importe (textiles, nonessential foodstuffs, various other nonessentials). 68.25 (Controlled "Free" Market Rate) Registered foreign capital. Various authorized invisibles (family remit- tances, movie rentals, etc.). 75.00 (<G 21 plus 0 54 Surcharge) Group V (Section 2) imports (petro- leum, various nonessential and luxury imports). Freight and other charges for imports. Airplane fares. 92.00 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Other invisibles. Unregistered capital. "Own exchange" imports. Five effective selling rates ($ 15, $ 30, $ 45, 0 49, and $ 56 per US$1) were eliminated and three new effective rates (0 42, (& 50, and $• 60 per US$1) were introduced. The special rate of $ 15 previously applicable to government imports and payments was eliminated. Gov- ernment transactions were shifted to $ 21 and higher rates. Wheat imports were shifted from $ 21 to $ 27 and gasoline and other petro- leum products were shifted from 0 27 to 0 60. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY January 13 The effective rates for certain exports were changed as follows: for cotton, from $ 33 to 0 36 per US$1; for logs, lumber, and yerba mate, from 0 18 to $ 19; and for pineapples, from 0 42 to 0 39. January 21 The effective rate for exports of hides was changed from 0 21 to $ 23.80 per US$1. January 28 Several import items (e.g., jeeps, grease and lubricating oil, certain textiles) were shifted to categories subject to more depreciated selling rates. February 9 Export quotas for cotton and for quebracho extract were introduced, under which 35 per cent and 50 per cent, respectively, of the production of these two items was allocated to countries with which deficits were incurred in 1954 in the payments agreement accounts. Producers had to fu lf i ll quotas to these countries before negotiating for the export to other areas of the remainder of their production; for this remainder, receipts in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling would be given preference, exports for other currencies requiring prior approval. February 21 The Central Bank extended "swap" operations (previously confined to sterling and U.S. dollars) to Swiss francs, Belgian francs, Swedish kronor, and Netherlands guilders. February 25 Law No. 246, covering foreign capital investments in Paraguay, was enacted. It included a provision that interest, profits, dividends, amortization, and royalties on registered capital may be remitted freely up to 20 per cent annually of the invested capital. March 5 The effective rates for exports of cotton, tobacco (formerly $ 41.30), and hides were changed to $ 38, $ 35.90, and $ 31 per US$1, re- spectively. 260 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Commercial banks were authorized to extend guarani credit to ex- porters who received foreign exchange corresponding to future exports and who engaged in "exchange swaps." The rate applicable to prepay- ments of exports is the effective export rate applicable at the time of the transaction; the rate for "swaps" was fixed at $ 40 per US$1. March 14 The effective rate for exports of packed meat and meat by-products was changed from $ 30 to $ 45.20 per US$1. March 23 Several import items (e.g., medical apparatus, dyes, certain electrical equipment) were shifted to categories subject to more depreciated sell- ing rates. March 28 Because of importers' delays in effecting payments abroad, imports could be made only against irrevocable documentary letters of credit. Importers had to submit proof that an advance deposit for the opening of the letter of credit had been made, in order to obtain an import license. The advance deposit percentages, calculated on the exchange rate applied to the import category in which the merchandise is in- cluded, were set as follows: Group I, 20 per cent; Group II, 30 per cent; Group III, 40 per cent; Group IV, 60 per cent; and Group V, 70 per cent. It was announced that pounds sterling, U.S. dollars, and Swiss francs were the only "convertible" currencies in which aforo differentials could be negotiated at the controlled "free" market rate. Total export proceeds in other currencies had to be negotiated at the effective export rates for each product, i.e., $ 21 per US$1 plus the "exchange subsidy" granted the item. April 20 The effective rates for quebracho exports were changed from $ 25.80 and $ 26.40 to $ 36 per US$1. Foreign companies exporting quebracho were authorized to receive the controlled "free" rate to the extent of US$25 per ton exported, to cover expenditures abroad and remittance of profits. Many imports (except those from Argentina) were regrouped and shifted to higher effective selling rates. 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY April 30 The rate for lumber exports was changed from $ 19 to $ 21 per US$1. May3 Rates of $ 27 per US$1 for exports of castor oil to Argentina and of $ 60 per US$1 for exports of castor oil to other areas were established. June 16 It was announced that increases of 0 6, (fi 8, and $ 9 per US$1 would be applied to the effective rates for imports in Groups I, II, and III, respectively, when payments are made in "convertible" currencies. Sections 1 and 2 of Group IV were consolidated and the effective rate for Group IV, Section 2 (0 55) was applied, except to automotive tractors. As a result, the effective rates for imports payable in "con- vertible" currencies were as follows (in guaranies per U.S. do l la r ): Group I, $ 27; Group II, $ 35; Group III, $ 45; Group IV, Sections 1 and 2, <£ 55; Group IV, Section 3, $ 60; Group V, Section 1, $ 65; Group V, Section 2, (fi 75. The rates for imports from Argentina were not changed. For imports payable in other currencies, a discount of 10 per cent was established for Groups IV and V, resulting in the fol- lowing effective import rates (in guaranies per U.S. dollar): Group I, $ 21; Group II, $ 27; Group III, $ 36; Group IV, Sections 1 and 2, $ 50; Group IV, Section 3, $ 55; Group V, Section 1, $ 60; and Group V, Section 2, $ 65. A more favorable rate of exchange ($ 50 per US$1) was granted for negotiating the difference between the aforo price and the actual export price when the export proceeds are from countries with which Paraguay has bilateral agreements (except Argentina). A temporary additional subsidy of $ 5 per US$1 was established for the aforo differential for exports to Belgium-Luxembourg, France, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, Italy, and the Netherlands. All gold and foreign exchange in excess of US$300 held by residents of Paraguay or brought into Paraguay, except by members of the diplomatic corps, national and foreign, and members of official missions, had to be declared to the Central Bank. July 11 A protocol to the 1953 payments agreement with Uruguay was signed. It provided that Uruguay would pay from 10 to 35 per cent (but not 262 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY more than the equivalent of US$1.5 million annually) of its annual payments for imports from Paraguay in freely convertible currency. An additional note provided that services and expenses in connection with transactions should be settled at a rate equivalent to the highest Uruguayan export rate. July 13 The Central Bank established higher minimum surrender values (aforos) for certain export commodities when they are shipped directly overseas, i.e., not transshipped via Buenos Aires or Montevideo. July 25 A trade and payments agreement with the Federal Republic of Ger- many was signed. The agreement stipulated that in future payments would be made in partly convertible deutsche marks instead of in agreement dollars. August 1 The export rate for various types of sawn lumber was changed to $ 27 per US$1. August 2 The deutsche mark was listed as a "convertible" currency. Special subsidies and aforos were established for exports to Uruguay of certain types of wood and lumber, coconut oil, and yerba mate. August 3 Exports to Belgium and Sweden were included in the provision for a more favorable rate of exchange (0 50 per US$1) for negotiating aforo differentials in certain currencies (see June 16, above). August 4 The effective rate for exports of hides was increased to $ 42 per US$1. August 17 The temporary subsidy of $ 5 per US$1 for aforo differentials for exports to Belgium was withdrawn (see June 16, above). 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY September 5 The exchange rate for freight, insurance, and other charges connected with imports (except those from Argentina and Uruguay) was set at $ 75 per US$1. September 10 Banks were prohibited from selling exchange for imports licensed for payment with "own exchange." September 15 A temporary subsidy of $ 18 per agreement dollar was established for payments through the Argentine-Paraguayan agreement account of river freight charges and other costs relating to imports of wheat, wheat flour, and fuel. Remittances abroad of passenger fares for river boat and air trans- portation obtained by foreign transport companies operating in Para- guay were to be made at a rate of 0 75 per US$1 or its equivalent, for the following currencies: Belgian francs, deutsche marks, Netherlands guilders, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. The rate of exchange for imports of petroleum and certain by- products was fixed at $ 75 per US$1. October 4 A rate of 0 36 per agreement dollar was fixed for imports of wheat and wheat flour from Argentina. October 29 The opening of irrevocable documentary letters of credit on Argen- tina was suspended until further notice. November 3 The Belgian franc was listed as a "convertible" currency. November 4 Receipts and payments for exports, imports, and services effected under the agreement with Argentina were to be negotiated at the ex- change rates applicable to currencies other than those listed as "con- vertible." The exemption from prior import license for some products from Argentina was suspended. 264 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY November 23 The effective export rates for coconut oil and straw hats were depre- ciated to (fi 45 and 0 36 per US$1, respectively. November 26 Imports could be paid on a sight draft basis, subject to individual approval by the Central Bank and an advance deposit of 70 per cent (100 per cent for Group V imports). November 28 Changes were made in the effective rates applied to the proceeds of certain exports received in "nonconvertible" currencies, so that the exporter received less local currency, as follows (in guaranies per U.S. dollar): cotton, 0 35; tobacco, $• 27; hides, $ 30; quebracho, 0 35; tung oil, 0 35; and castor oil, $ 48.93. The aforo differentials arising from sales to Sweden and certain agreement countries (Austria, France, Hungary, Italy, the Netherlands, Spain, and Uruguay) could be negotiated at $ 57.50 per US$1, and those from sales to other agreement countries at 0 52.50 per US$1. December 6 The exchange rate for freight, insurance, and other charges connected with trade with Argentina was appreciated to $ 42 per US$1, and to $ 50 for similar payments to Uruguay. For certain essential goods imported from Argentina or Uruguay, import restrictions were removed and the following special exchange rates were established (in guaranies per U.S. dollar): powdered and condensed milk, (fr 36; butter, cheese, onions, fruits, potatoes, and biscuits, $ 42. December 9 The rate applied to exchange "swaps" was changed from 0 40 to 0 47 per US$1. December 27 The commercial banks were authorized to operate for their own account in the free exchange market. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System The initial par value of Peruvian Soles 6.50 = US$1, established on December 18,1946, is not applied to any transactions under the present exchange system. No new par value has been proposed. There are two free fluctuating market exchange rates: an exchange certificate rate applying to most trade transactions and a draft market rate for other trade and most nontrade transactions. Foreign exchange from exports must be converted, either totally or partially, into ex- change certificates; certificates valid for ten days are issued for 100 per cent of export proceeds in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, and certificates valid for 60 days are issued for 10 per cent of export pro- ceeds in Argentine pesos. These exchange certificates are negotiable in the certificate market and may be used to pay for imports and for certain nontrade transactions. All exchange transactions that do not qualify for the certificate market are permitted freely in the draft market. The exchange rates fluctuate and broken cross rates exist in both markets. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control Export permits and exchange licenses permitting the use of certifi- cates for nontrade transactions are issued by the Ministry of Finance and Commerce. The exchange certificates (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru, which has conducted stabilization operations, from time to time, in the certificate market. Exchange certificate transactions are conducted through commercial banks; draft market transactions are conducted freely through banks and various other dealers, or directly between sellers and buyers. Prescription of Currency The issuance of exchange certificates only in certain currencies—at present in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and Argentine pesos—results in prescription of currencies for all transactions effected through the certificate market. Transactions through the draft market may be made in any currency. Imports and Import Payments Imports are permitted freely, with the exception of automobiles, which are permitted on a quota basis, and imports from Eastern Europe 266 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU and Mainland China. Control over other imports exists only insofar as commercial banks must ensure that certificate exchange is used to pay for actual imports and not for unauthorized purposes. There are no licenses or other controls applied to payments for im- ports. Importers may use either of the exchange markets to pay for imports. However, in the certificate market, through which most imports are paid, certificates are denominated only in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and Argentine pesos; payments in other currencies may be effected through the draft market or by converting the certificate currency into that required. Importers opening documentary letters of credit through commercial banks must make advance deposits (except for imports of wheat, meat, milk, and fats) in foreign currency of 25 per cent of the import value for imports for production and 50 per cent for all other imports. Banks may finance up to 50 per cent of the local currency equivalent of such advance deposits for raw materials, but credit may not be extended to effect nonessential imports. Payments for Invisibles Exchange licenses are required in order to pay for invisibles with certificates. The types of invisible eligible for, and usually allowed in, the certificate market include freight and transit expenses, interest payments and dividends, rents on property, royalties, agents' com- missions, repayments of commercial debts, and insurance and reinsur- ance payments. Remuneration of foreign technicians and payments for pensions are also usually allowed through the certificate market. Exchange for all other invisibles, and for all invisibles in currencies other than the three in which certificates are denominated, is obtained in the draft market. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to license to assure the necessary supply of export proceeds to the certificate market. Export licenses may be denied for goods in short supply domestically. The export of strategic materials to Mainland China and North Korea is prohibited. In general, exports are authorized only against payment in the three currencies in which certificates are issued (U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, and Argentine pesos). The surrender requirements in respect of these currencies have been varied from time to time, and certificates in other currencies can be issued if it is considered necessary. Export proceeds in any of the three currencies in which certificates are issued must be 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU surrendered within 5 days of the date of shipment for exports covered by irrevocable letters of credit and within 30 days for other exports. The portions of export proceeds not subject to surrender against ex- change certificates, and the proceeds of exports authorized in currencies for which no certificates are issued, may be sold in the draft market. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles are free of control and may be sold in the draft market. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresi- dents may be effected without control in the draft market. Capital remittances representing contractual amortization and depreciation of foreign capital and depletion of mineral investment may also be effected, within certain limits, through the certificate market, subject to exchange license. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1955) (soles per t/wS. dollar) 19.00 Buying (Fluctuating Exchange Certifi- cate Market Rate) Exports (100% in pounds sterling and UJ3. dollars; 10% in Argentine pesos). Selling 19.001 (Fluctuating Exchange Certifi- cate Market Rate) Most imports. Certain invisibles and capital transfers. 19.46 (Fluctuating Draft Market Rate) All other export proceeds. Invisibles and capital. 19.56 (Fluctuating Draft Market Rate) Occasional imports. Other invisibles and capital. Changes during 1955 January 24 Advance deposits in foreign currency required for opening docu- mentary import credits were reduced from 100 per cent to 25 per cent for imports for production, to 50 per cent for all other imports, and were abolished for imports of wheat, meat, milk, and fats. 1 The banks are required to quote a single buying and selling rate for certificates, but they may charge a commission on certificate sales. 268 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU March 22 Quotas for imports of automobiles and trucks during 1955 were established at 5,000 units. July 31 The payments agreement with the United Kingdom was terminated. Peru continued, however, to issue exchange certificates denominated in pounds sterling. November 2 The payments agreement with France was terminated. Peru ceased to issue exchange certificates denominated in French francs. 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC i Exchange Rate System The par value is Philippine Pesos 2 = US$1. The official rates are P 2.00375 buying, P 2.015 selling, per US$1. These rates represent the official minimum buying and maximum selling rates of commercial banks for demand drafts and telegraphic transfers of US$500 and over. Administration of Control Exchange controls are operated by the Central Bank of the Philip- pines, whose Monetary Board determines, on a quarterly or semi- annual basis, the amount of exchange to be allocated for various pur- poses, including payments for imports. In the licensing of exchange for imports, the Monetary Board of the Central Bank is assisted by a committee of commercial banks in Manila appointed for this purpose. All sales and purchases of exchange must pass through authorized agent banks (the commercial banks and, for transactions connected with travel, the American Express Company). Post offices are also authorized to sell U.S. dollar money orders payable in the United States and its territories and possessions for certain specific purposes, subject to certain conditions and restrictions. The authorized agent banks are permitted, without prior approval of the Central Bank, to issue ex- change licenses and sell exchange for specified transactions and in specified amounts. Applications for exchange licenses outside the scope of authority of the authorized agent banks are referred to the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency requirements for outgoing payments other than that payments to Japan must be effected through a clearing account maintained at the Central Bank. It is required that all proceeds from exports be obtained in U.S. dollars, except that ex- ports to Japan must be settled through the clearing account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are composed primarily of nonresident peso funds that were in the Philippines prior to the imposition of exchange 1 In view of the replacement of the former 17 per cent tax on sales of exchange by a special levy on imports, which became effective January 1, 1956, this survey represents the position as at that date. 270 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC controls, savings of former residents, unremitted portions of income or other earnings of nonresidents, and other items of a similar nature. These balances are not ordinarily convertible into foreign exchange. They may be used for local investments or expenses. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses, as such, are not issued, but the Bureau of Customs will not permit the entry of goods without the presentation of a release certificate issued by an authorized agent bank in a form prescribed by the Monetary Board of the Central Bank. All payments for imports must be effected through letters of credit, except those made by im- porters who since 1950 have been permitted by the Monetary Board to remit such payments by demand draft, mail, or telegraphic transfer. All applications for the opening of letters of credit, customarily filed with authorized agent banks, are therefore considered as applications for licenses to purchase foreign exchange to pay for imports. Importers are classified, according to status, as government, old producer, new producer, old importer, new importer qualified under Republic Act No. 650, or new (1953) importer. The Monetary Board certifies to each authorized agent bank the total amount of foreign exchange available to it for either a three months' or six months' period. This certification includes a classifica- tion by importers, based on their actual use of exchange in 1952, and by commodity categories. In addition, the Monetary Board sets aside a contingency reserve of foreign exchange for sales to customers not considered in the regular budget; this reserve, the distribution of which is controlled by a bankers' committee, is used primarily for the requirements of old producers to expand production over their 1952 fig- ures and of new producers to import machinery and raw materials, and for adjustments of quotas. Imports of goods without exchange alloca- tion (referred to as "no-dollar" imports) are, as a general rule, pro- hibited. However, upon approval of the Department of Commerce and Industry, certain goods may be imported without exchange allocation from the Central Bank (see section on Changes during 1955, Septem- ber 10, below). There are no prescription of currency requirements other than that payments to Japan must be effected through a clearing account maintained at the Central Bank; U.S. dollar exchange is pro- vided for import payments to all other countries. Payments for Invisibles All payments and remittances abroad for invisibles require exchange licenses. Such licenses are usually granted to effect full payment abroad 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC for freight, insurance, cable and telephone services, interest and amorti- zation, professional services, medical treatment, pensions, and similar items. Exchange licenses are granted on a limited basis to effect pay- ments for travel, education expenses, maintenance, profits and divi- dends, income, royalties, salaries, etc. Travelers may take out with them a maximum of P 100 in Philippine currency, of which coins may not exceed F 5. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, exports are not restricted; but they are controlled to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an author- ized agent of the Central Bank. Exports of certain strategic materials are prohibited. Barter exports are allowed under certain conditions and subject to the approval of the Department of Commerce and Industry. With the exception of barter exports and exports to Japan, the pro- ceeds of all exports must be obtained in U.S. dollars and surrendered to an authorized agent, and no commodity may be exported from the Philippines unless covered by a draft drawn in U.S. dollars and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent. Exports to Japan are settled through the clearing account maintained at the Central Bank of the Philippines. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in a maximum of P 100 in Philippine currency, of which coins may not exceed P 50 for first-class passengers, P 20 for second- class passengers, and P 10 for third-class passengers. Capital All exchange receipts from capital must be surrendered. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned capital invested prior to December 9, 1949 is not ordinarily allowed. However, transfers to nonresident in- vestors of profits and dividends out of current net earnings up to 40 per cent (or more) of their capital investments are allowed. Capital invested by nonresidents after December 9, 1949 with the prior approval of the Central Bank is eligible for transfer abroad, but all transfers of capital require approval of the Central Bank. The import and export of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are subject to license. For certain transactions, licenses may be issued by authorized security dealers on behalf of the Central Bank. 272 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC Foreign assets held by residents and acquired prior to December 9, 1949 are subject to declaration, and their use or disposal is subject to approval. Earnings and other acquisitions of foreign exchange abroad by residents since that date must be remitted to the Philippines and surrendered. Transfers of capital abroad by residents are in principle not permitted. Changes during 1955 February 15 The monthly exchange allowance for students' maintenance abroad was increased by $50, to $300 for students in the United States and Canada, $250 for students in Europe and Central and South America, and $150 for students in other countries. May 27 Regulations were introduced to limit switching between import com- modities by holders of exchange quotas. Julyl The 17 per cent tax on sales of exchange was extended for another year, with minor modifications. September 1 The authorities reverted to the usual practice of semestral alloca- tions of exchange and at the same time reduced by 50 per cent the allocations for certain types of imports, including textiles and non- essential consumer items. September 6 The Governments of the Philippines and the United States signed a revised agreement involving, inter alia, the elimination of the 17 per cent exchange tax and its replacement by a special import levy, effective January 1, 1956. September 10 Imports of goods without exchange allocation from the Central Bank (referred to as "no-dollar" imports) were prohibited by law, with the following exceptions: imports of machinery, equipment, and other 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC capital goods for dollar-earning or dollar-saving industries; articles imported or brought in for personal use within certain value limits; goods imported under a direct barter procedure approved by the De- partment of Commerce and Industries; clothing materials imported for processing and re-export; and gifts up to certain values. December 31 The 17 per cent tax on sales of exchange was abolished. It was replaced, as from January 1, 1956, by a special levy on imports. 274 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange Rate System The par value is Swedish Kroner 5.17321 = US$1. The official rates are SKr 5.17 buying, SKr 5.18 selling, per US$1. Sweden participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, with other authorized banks in any of these territories. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Sweden operates a "transit dollar" scheme under which dollars are purchased abroad at a premium by Swedish commercial banks and resold to Swedish importers of goods on the "transit dollar" list (see section on Imports and Import Payments, below). Administration of Control Import and export licenses when required are issued by the State Trade and Industrial Commission or, in the case of foodstuffs, the State Commission of Agriculture. All payments to nonresidents, and vice versa, must be made through the Sveriges Riksbank or through one of the 15 Swedish authorized banks, and require approval by the Exchange Control Office, which has, however, delegated wide powers to the authorized banks to approve payments. Prescription of Currency The prescription of the methods by which payments to and receipts from nonresidents are to be made is set out in the payments agreements concluded with other countries.1 Usually, inward and outward payments must be made either in Swedish kronor or in the currency of the country of the nonresident (double-account payments agreements), or they must be made in a single currency (single-account payments agree- 1 Sweden has payments agreements with EPU countries, Bulgaria, Czecho- slovakia, Hungary, Japan, Poland, Spain, U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia, and a payments arrangement with Brazil. 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN ments). Payments in kroner are made into and out of nonresident- owned Regular (current) Accounts held in kronor with authorized banks (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts Broadly speaking, there are three types of nonresident account held in Swedish kronor with authorized banks in Sweden: Regular (i.e., current) Accounts, Restricted Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Regular Accounts may be used for all payments to and from the coun- try of the nonresident holder, except where a payments agreement be- tween Sweden and the country concerned stipulates otherwise. All balances in a Regular Account may, as a rule, be converted at any time into the currency of the country of the holder. Transfers may be made freely between the accounts of authorized banks in Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, insofar as arbitrage transactions are concerned (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Nonresident-owned capital that cannot be transferred abroad usually is allowed to be deposited in Restricted Accounts or Blocked Accounts. A Restricted Account may be used to cover the holder's and his family's living expenses in Sweden up to a certain limit, for payment of the holder's own taxes in Sweden, and for investment in bonds quoted on the Swedish stock exchange. Bonds purchased in this way and proceeds therefrom must be deposited in a "restricted securities" account with an authorized bank. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not permitted to be credited to other accounts; the disposal of balances on such accounts is subject to individual license. Imports and Import Payments Most goods from OEEC countries and their associated areas, Fin- land, and Yugoslavia, as well as printed matter from all countries, may be imported freely. The liberalization percentage reached under the OEEC free list amounts to 92.6 per cent of Sweden's 1948 imports on private account from OEEC countries. Some imports from other coun- tries require import licenses. About 50 per cent of dollar imports (on the basis of total dollar imports in 1953) are free of import license for purchases in dollar countries2 against payment in U.S. dollars. In 2 In Sweden, these are listed as Bolivia, Canada, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN addition, licenses for a wide range of commodities with origin in dollar countries and listed on the "transit dollar" list are granted auto- matically provided that, in cases where purchases are made in dollar countries, payments are made in "transit dollars" purchased from Swedish commercial banks, or where the commodities are purchased in non-dollar countries, payments are made in conformity with the regu- lations governing payments between Sweden and such countries. When an import license has been obtained, or if no license is required, pay- ment may be effected without delay, subject to presentation of evidence of the dispatch of the goods to Sweden, and provided that the method of payment is in conformity with the general rules (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to nonresidents for most current invisibles are allowed freely through the authorized banks. Restrictions are applied to a few items, particularly to payments in U.S. dollars. Tourists traveling abroad are granted any reasonable amount of exchange for travel to Denmark, Finland, Norway, and the Sterling Area countries; the equivalent of SKr 3,000 yearly for each person for travel to other non- dollar countries; and the equivalent of SKr 1,500 yearly for travel to the dollar area. Each person leaving Sweden may export Swedish and/or foreign banknotes to a total amount of SKr 300; the denomination of Swedish banknotes taken out may be no higher than SKr 50. Nonresidents may, when leaving Sweden, freely export foreign banknotes and other foreign means of payment brought into the country by them, up to the equiva- lent of SKr 2,000. For amounts exceeding this limit, a certificate of "Means of Payment Imported and Intended for Re-Export," issued on entry, is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to North, Central, and South American countries (ex- cept Argentina) and to all OEEC countries are exempt from licensing requirements. However, payment must be received within six months after the dispatch of the commodity and must be in conformity with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). All pro- ceeds from exports and from invisibles received in hard currency (mainly U.S. dollars), or received in other currencies from North, Central, and South America, Portugal, and Switzerland, must be sur- rendered. There is no surrender obligation for other currencies, and 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN they may be kept in a currency account with a Swedish authorized bank. These currency accounts may, however, be used by the holder to make payments abroad only if authorized; or they may be sold against Swedish kronor at the official rate. Proceeds from Invisibles Incoming receipts from invisibles have to be reported to the Exchange Control Office. Proceeds from invisibles received in hard currency (mainly U.S. dollars), or received in other currencies from North, Cen- tral, and South America, Portugal, and Switzerland, must be sur- rendered. Each person entering Sweden may import SKr 300 in Swedish banknotes, in denominations no higher than SKr 50, and foreign bank- notes without limitation. Capital Investments in Sweden by nonresidents and the repatriation of their capital are subject to approval. Payments for contractual amortiza- tion are permitted freely. Transfers on account of dividends and other earnings on investments are in principle permitted. In accordance with an agreement concluded by Sweden with Denmark, Norway, and the United Kingdom in 1950, capital transfers and transactions between Sweden and these countries are generally permitted. Inheritances due to nonresidents may be transferred, and in cases of hardship the re- patriation of moderate amounts of other nonresident-owned capital is also permitted. Capital assets of nonresidents which are not permitted to be trans- ferred abroad may be used in Sweden for certain purposes or are held in Restricted Accounts or Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, above). Requests by residents to transfer capital abroad for direct investment are considered on a case-to-case basis. Transfers of capital abroad for portfolio investment are permitted only exceptionally. Securities may be imported into Sweden through the intermediary of an authorized bank; however, their disposal is subject to approval. The export of, and transactions in, securities involving nonresident interests are also subject to approval. Changes during 1955 January 8 The free list for dollar imports was slightly enlarged by the addition of certain goods that were formerly on the "transit dollar" list. 278 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN March 28 The basic allocations of travel exchange for residents were increased to annual rates of SKr 3,000 for travel to all non-dollar countries and SKr 1,500 for travel to the dollar area. June 1 Nonresidents leaving Sweden could take out freely foreign means of payment they brought with them on entry, up to SKr 2,000; a special export certificate was required only for amounts exceeding this limit. August 22 Italian authorized banks and Italian lire were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. September 30 The limits imposed on the export of Swedish and foreign banknotes and the import of Swedish banknotes by travelers were raised from SKr 100 to SKr 300 per journey. December 5 Italian authorized banks and Italian lire were included, for forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, in the multilateral ex- change arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. December 30 A circular was issued, effective January 1, 1956, making further additions to the list of license-free imports from the dollar area. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA Exchange Rate System The par value is Syrian Pounds 2.19148 = US$1. The official rates are LS 2.19 buying, LS 2.21 selling, per US$1. The official buying rate no longer applies to any transactions, while the official selling rate applies only to petroleum imports and sales of exchange to the Directorate-General of Propaganda and Information. The official rate is also used as the basis for levying customs duties and consumption taxes on imports. All other transactions take place at free market rates, which were, for the U.S. dollar as at December 31,1955, LS 3.54 buying, LS 3.56 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control A decree-law of April 1952 established an Exchange Office, which under the supervision of the Council on Money and Credit is the final authority on all matters pertaining to exchange policy and control. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of National Economy. Authorized commercial banks have the responsibility of recording the exchange proceeds of most exports. Prescription of Currency Present regulations empower the Exchange Office to prescribe certain currencies to be obtained for exports of certain goods. In practice, how- ever, the Exchange Office usually requires that proceeds of major ex- ports to all but a few neighboring countries be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported (if it is an acceptable currency) or a stronger currency, at the exporter's choice. Prescription of currency requirements are not applied to outgoing payments. Imports and Import Payments All imports require prior licenses. These are issued freely except for a short list of prohibited items consisting mainly of goods which are manufactured domestically. Exchange may be obtained freely at free market rates. Payments for Invisibles Exchange for invisibles may be obtained freely at free market rates. 280 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIA Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods essential to the domestic economy are pro- hibited. Most other exports are free of license. The proceeds of certain exports, including major exports1 to countries other than Bahrein, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia, have to be obtained in accept- able currencies (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), according to destination, and recorded with and repatriated through authorized banks in Syria. There is, however, no obligation on exporters or others to sell their export proceeds, which may be held or sold freely to any buyer. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to proceeds from invisibles and such exchange may be held, sold in the free market, or otherwise dis- posed of. Capital Imports and exports of capital are free of all restriction and may be dealt with in the free market without limitation. Changes during 1955 May 14 Exporters were freed from the requirement to sell export exchange to authorized banks and were permitted to sell exchange freely to any buyer. The Exchange Office widened the spread between its buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, from LS 3.555-LS 3.575 to LS 3.545- LS 3.585 per US$1. November 29 Sales of local currency to an oil company ceased to be made at the official buying rate, so that this rate no longer applied to any trans- actions. 1 The commodities affected represent some 80 per cent of all exports and are listed as follows: living animals, eggs, animal casings, vegetables, apricot paste, licorice, olive oil, fruit, tobacco, barley, wheat, maize, cottonseed, raw cotton, cotton textiles, silk textiles, raw wool, hemp, soap, leather and hides, and footwear. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND' Exchange Rate System There is no agreed par value for the Thai Baht. The official rates were B 12.45 buying, B 12.55 selling, per US$1, but since the end of 1955 these rates apply only to outstanding commitments. All other incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent at fluctuating free market rates. As at January 1, 1956, the free rate for the U.S. dollar was approximately B 20.80 per US$1. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automatically for bona fide commercial transactions) and also take place at the fluctuating free market rates. Transactions with Japan, however, take place at a rate fixed periodically by the Bank of Thailand on the basis of the free market rate, the rate for January 1956 being B 20.50 per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Thailand on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most transactions to authorized agents, i.e., authorized banks and author- ized companies. A few imports and exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports of rice, tin, and rubber must be obtained in sterling or U.S. dollars. The currency to be obtained for other exports is set forth on the export declaration required before exports can be cleared. Transactions with Japan are made through special accounts kept in U.S. dollars (the "open account" arrangements) under the terms of a trade and payments agreement with Japan.2 There are no special requirements attached to the methods of payment to other coun- tries, but in practice such payments are made largely in sterling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. 1 In view of the change that took place in the exchange rate system effective January 1, 1956 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey represents the position as at that date. 2 As from April 16, 1956, the payments agreement with Japan establishing the "open account" arrangements ceased to be effective. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Nonresident Accounts Transfers of baht to and from the accounts of nonresidents (includ- ing transfers between nonresident accounts) require approval, which is granted automatically for certain current payments. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely, but a few commodities require import licenses and a few others may not be imported at all. Payments for imports must be made by means of a letter of credit unless approval otherwise is given. Payments for imports are effected at the free market rate, except for imports from Japan, which are settled at the rate fixed by the Bank df Thailand on the basis of the free market rate. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 3,000 in value can be cleared through the Bangkok customs or goods exceeding B 5,000 in value can be cleared through other customs stations. Payments for Invisibles Authorized payments for invisibles are effected at the free market rate. In general, exchange is provided freely for invisible transactions when the applications are supported by the documentary evidence specified in the regulations. For certain payments —foreign travel and family remittances —the amounts of exchange that the authorized agent may sell are limited. Under the bilateral arrangements with Japan, payments for invisibles relating to current transactions must, in principle, be made through the "open account." No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 or foreign currency exceeding the equivalent of UK£50 or US$140 without prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Families traveling under the same passport may not take out more than twice these amounts without a permit. Persons in transit may take out any foreign exchange they imported on entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain minor export commodities require export licenses. All ex- porters of goods exceeding B 3,000 in value through the Bangkok cus- toms and B 5,000 through other customs stations must obtain a "certificate of exportation of goods" from an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through the customs; this certificate assures 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND repatriation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be sold to authorized agents at the free market rate within seven days of receipt but not later than three months after the date of export. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized agent at the free market rate. However, the Bank of Thailand's "open account" arrangements for transactions with Japan must be used for receipts from the services specified in that agreement. No person may bring into Thailand local currency exceeding B 500 without a permit, and a family traveling under the same passport may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Capital All outward transfers of capital by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Foreign exchange from inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent. Foreign investments in Thailand can be accorded perferential treatment under the Industrial Promotion Act of October 4, 1954; this treatment can include a guarantee of the transfer abroad of net current earnings. The repatriation of capital is considered on the merits of each case. Changes during 1955 January 1 The Bank of Thailand discontinued selling exchange at preferential rates for the two remaining categories of imports, viz., milk and milk products, and medicines. The scope of government participation in rice trading was con- siderably reduced, and standard prices at which exporters were required to surrender exchange to the Bank of Thailand at the official rate were lowered by about 50 per cent for different grades of rice. Exporters were permitted to sell to authorized agents at the free market rate the foreign exchange proceeds not surrendered. March 18 The monetary reserves were revalued at a rate of B 20 per US$1 (the previous rate of valuation had been B 12.50 per US$1). 284 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND July 13 An Exchange Equalization Fund was established to prevent undue fluctuations in the free market rate. August 14 The surrender requirements at the official rate for the export proceeds of rice and tin were abolished. August 23 A linking system was established between exports of salt and im- ports of monosodium glutamate (a seasoning powder). September 1 The bilateral trade and payments agreement with Japan was ex- tended to the end of 1955, pending the negotiation of a new agreement. (Later, it was announced that this agreement would be terminated in 1956.) September 14 Import licensing requirements were abolished for all commodities except a small group included in a specified list (23 items). The list of prohibited imports was reduced from 84 items to 17 items. September 15 The surrender requirements at the official rate for the export proceeds of rubber were abolished. Note: Effective January 1, 1956, the official rates of B 12.45 buying, B 12.55 selling, per US$1 were no longer used, except for outstanding commitments (i.e., minor government receipts, exchange proceeds in arrears prior to the removal of surrender requirements, and a few com- mitted items of government expenditure). 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Exchange Rate System The exchange rate system is based on the par value of Turkish Liras 2.80 = US$1. The official rates are LT 2.80 buying, LT 2.8252 selling, per US$1. Multiple rates of exchange arise from export premi- ums which vary according to the commodity and to the currency obtained, and from the use of blocked funds as payment for exports. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Ministry of Finance. Ex- change allocation for imports is effected by the Ministry of Economy and Commerce for the private sector and by the Ministry of Finance for the public sector. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy and Commerce are in charge of drawing up estimates for all foreign exchange needs and of receipts in the private and public sectors, effecting exchange allocations to these sectors, and deciding the trans- fers to be made each month by the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey, taking into consideration the type and importance of the needs. A bureau consisting of officials of the Ministries concerned and of the Central Bank performs the preparatory work. The Central Bank and the authorized banks operate the details of the exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles must be effected in U.S. dollars, in free Swiss francs, in sterling through an account of the Central Bank, in other EPU currencies, in any other currency or manner acceptable to the Central Bank, or in accordance with payments agreements, which provide for the following methods of payment: (1) in U.S. dollars (as the currency of account in most cases) in respect to Austria, Bulgaria, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Sweden, and Yugo- slavia; (2) in the currency of the partner country in respect to Bel- gium, Czechoslovakia, France, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom (and other territories of the Sterling A r e a ); and (3) in sterl- ing in respect to the U.S.S.R. An agreement with Switzerland provides for settlement in free Swiss francs of 20 per cent of payments by Swit- zerland in favor of Turkey. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to approval, which usually is given auto- matically for goods of primary necessity and for certain goods im- ported on a long-term credit basis. For other items, the issue of licenses is subject to the decision of the exchange and trade control authorities on individual applications. There may be some delay, however, between the granting of the license and the time that the exchange is actually made available. Imports on government account financed through intergovernmental loans and grants, which represent a considerable portion of the country's imports, are not subject to these limitations. The Ministry of Economy and Commerce reserves the right to restrict imports from any particular country within the limits of exchange pro- ceeds accruing from that country. The Central Bank requires that an application for the allocation of foreign exchange for merchandise payments be accompanied by a de- posit of 10 per cent of the value of the application. If the allocation is not made within one month, the applicant is entitled to withdraw his deposit. Payments for Invisibles In principle, payments by residents to nonresidents on account of invisibles are restricted and subject to individual license, although payments incidental to merchandise transactions are permitted auto- matically. Exchange permits are usually given for payments on account of (1) interest, commissions, and similar payments connected with bank operations; (2) export commissions, registration fees, patent fees, etc.; and (3) advertisements and other expenses connected with trade. Pay- ments effected by insurance companies also require permits, which usually are given. Exchange for business travel is granted within limits varying accord- ing to the amount of taxes paid by the applicant firm. Travelers are permitted to export LT 99 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresident travelers may take out, without permission, the unspent portion of the foreign exchange recorded in their passports on entry. Foreign tourists may export freely the equivalent of LT 15 in foreign coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods may be exported freely; but specified goods require individual licenses, mainly in order to prevent triangular trade in such goods resulting in payment of a soft currency to Turkey for goods 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY finally sold for hard currency. Exporters are, in general, required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods ex- ported, within three months from the date of export and within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange in question has been placed at their disposal. The proceeds of certain exports in dollars or EPU currencies benefit from subsidies of 75, 50, or 40 per cent of the value of the proceeds, and in bilateral account currencies from sub- sidies of 50, 40, or 25 per cent, depending on the commodity involved. The subsidies on exports of raisins and dried figs are based on weight rather than on export value and vary both with the currency involved and with the commercial grade of the product. These subsidies are paid from funds in an Equalization Account at the Agricultural Bank de- rived from taxes of 25, 50, or 75 per cent on specified secondary and luxury imports. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange accruing to residents on account of services ren- dered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Travelers are permitted to import LT 100 in Turkish banknotes and metallic currency. Capital Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions be- tween residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. The repatriation of foreign assets held by residents must be effected in foreign exchange; it may, however, in cases specifically approved by the Ministry of Finance, be effected through the import of specified commodities, provided it is verified that repatriation in foreign exchange is not possible. Foreign investments in Turkey require approval. Foreign companies and contractors established abroad who wish to do business in Turkey must import in the form of foreign exchange the capital and operating funds required by the business. In principle, assets and balances owned by, and earnings accruing to, nonresidents cannot be converted into foreign currency, and if they exceed LT 500 they are blocked. Subject to individual permit, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, except as capital for business, or may be transferred abroad through the export of specified goods. 288 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval where a nonresident interest is involved. Foreign capital invested in Turkey within the terms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments is accorded preferential treatment, provided the enterprise in which the investment will be made will tend to promote the economic development of the country, will operate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise, and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. The investment may be made in the form of (1) capital brought into Turkey in the form of foreign ex- change; (2) installations, machinery, tools, and instruments, or their spare parts, and such special construction materials as may be needed; (3) nonphysical assets, such as concessions, trademarks, and patents; (4) profits converted into capital through reinvestment. Under this law, as amended, annual profits, interest, and dividends on approved investments and all or part of the invested capital or foreign loan may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Registered shares or stock certificates issued under this law are freely transferable between persons of all nationalities both in Turkey and abroad. The capital and interest of long-term loans and credits made by non- residents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural character) may be accorded the same transfer benefits as those de- scribed above for foreign investment. The Ministry of Finance.can guarantee such loans to a total of LT 1 billion, subject to the approval of the Council of Ministers. Changes during 1955 April 1 Fresh grapes, peaches, strawberries, plums, pears, apricots, cherries, figs, and melons were added to the list of goods for which an export premium would be granted. July 20 Decree No. K/972 increased the export premium for sponges. August 29 Decree No. K/990 revised the system of export premiums and made additions to the list of commodities eligible for such premiums. Previ- ously, the amount of the premium had varied according to whether 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY payment for the export was to be received in dollars (100 per cent), EPU currencies (75 per cent), or bilateral account currencies (40 per cent). Under the new decree, the amount of the premium for proceeds in dollars and EPU currencies (as one category) would be 75, 50, or 40 per cent, and for proceeds in bilateral account currencies, 50, 40, or 25 per cent, according to the nature of the commodity involved. The export premium on raisins (based on weight) was raised. Dried figs were also granted export premiums on the basis of weight and grade. September 15 Decree No. 14 (Protection of the Value of the Turkish Currency) codified all the relevant exchange control regulations and provided for a tightening of the Turkish exchange control system. December 28 A decree annexed to Decree No. 14 charged the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy and Commerce with determining the foreign exchange needs and receipts of the private and public sectors and effecting exchange allocations to these sectors. By virtue of the same decree, a bureau was established for this purpose and the Min- isterial Exchange Committee which had been established in 1950 was abolished. 290 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Rate System The par value is South African Pound 1 — US$2.80. Exchange rates are uniform and are based on the fixed rates for sterling-S.A. pounds and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies, maintained between official limits. The rates for the U.S. dollar as at December 31,1955 were US$2.808 buying, US$2.790 selling, per £SA 1. Exchange Control Territory There are no exchange or trade restrictions between the Union of South Africa, South West Africa, Basutoland, Swaziland, and the Bechuanaland Protectorate. These territories may be regarded as forming with the Union of South Africa a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce and Indus- tries. Exchange licensing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the Reserve Bank, which in turn has delegated to the commercial banks some of its licensing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized dealers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency All approved payments to and receipts from residents outside the Sterl- ing Area must be made in the manner prescribed by the South African Treasury. For most transactions, the prescribed method is in sterling to or from an account related to the country or monetary area of the nonresident, following the United Kingdom's exchange control system; for several countries, payments or receipts may alternatively be in the appropriate local currency, e.g., for Canada or American Account countries, in Canadian or U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are nonresident accounts for beneficiaries resident outside the Sterling Area, and Sterling Area accounts for beneficiaries resident in territories of the Sterling Area. Credits to the former are subject to 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA control, and each deposit requires approval; withdrawals may be used to pay for exports to the country of the account holder, local payments, transfers to the country of the account holder or to other Sterling Area territories, and payments to a nonresident account of the same country or monetary area. Balances held in Sterling Area accounts may be used freely for local payments or transferred to any other territory of the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payment* A number of items, including petrol and oil, textile piece goods below certain ceiling prices, and the products of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, may be imported freely, but all other imports require import licenses, which are valid for purchases from any country. There are, moreover, quantitative limitations on different types of imports. Thus, for raw materials, consumable stores, and maintenance spares, licenses are granted to importers on the basis of quotas fixed in accord- ance with previous consumption and estimated requirements; for gen- eral merchandise, licenses are granted to importers on the basis of their 1948 imports. Import licenses granted for general merchandise may be exchanged for permission to import a smaller amountx of certain goods on a "restricted" list. Likewise, general merchandise licenses may, under certain conditions, be used for importing a larger amount of certain goods on a "priority" list. Otherwise, the issuance of import licenses for goods on the "restricted" list and on the "priority" list is subject to administrative decision. An importer is granted exchange to pay for all goods legally im- ported, upon presentation of satisfactory evidence that the transactions have been or will be properly effected; payment must be made in the prescribed manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles There are no restrictions on payments to residents of the Sterling Area, nor is any license required. All payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require exchange licenses, which are freely granted for most invisibles. Exchange to pay for travel expenses, mem- bership fees, maintenance, etc., is granted liberally. Persons leaving South Africa may take £SA 20 in South African Reserve Bank notes and the equivalent of £SA 10 in other notes. 1 Effective January 1, 1966, a similar amount. 292 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for exports of certain specific raw mate- rials in short supply and manufactures therefrom (Schedule A) to any destination other than Basutoland, Swaziland, and the Bechuanaland Protectorate. They are also required, for strategic reasons, for certain other goods (Schedule B) exported to destinations other than the United Kingdom, any British Dominion, Colony, Possession, Protector- ate, or Trust Territory, and the United States. Other goods (Sched- ule C) may be exported without a license. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and all foreign ex- change other than Sterling Area currencies must be surrendered. Export control procedures operate to assure this. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be received in the appropriate manner (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and non-sterling ex- change must be surrendered. Capital2 Proceeds of capital must be received in the appropriate manner and, if in non-sterling exchange, surrendered. Transfers of capital to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area require approval. This is granted to emigrants within certain limits; otherwise, residents are not normally allowed to export capital to countries outside the Sterling Area. Capi- tal transferred directly to the Union from a country outside the Sterling Area normally may be retransferred to the country of origin and in the currency in which the original transfer was received. Changes during 1955 Janwry 1 Imports were further liberalized. Importers were allowed to effect imports up to 33.3 per cent of their 1948 reference quotas, against gen- eral merchandise permits. Several items were removed from the "re- stricted" list and were made importable against general merchandise permits only. Other items were put on the "free list," requiring no im- port license. A few of these items remained subject to ceiling prices. 2 For details of changes effective February 21, 1956, see note at the end of this survey. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA February 17 Importers were granted an additional global allocation of 20 per cent of their 1948 reference quotas for imports of merchandise falling under general merchandise permits* Goods appearing on the "restricted" list were, under certain conditions, made importable against conversion of general merchandise permits at a ratio of 1 to 2. November 24 The authorized banks were given increased power to approve remit- tances abroad for noncommercial purposes. Note: Effective February 21,1956, certain measures were introduced affecting Sterling Area transactions by residents of the Union of South Africa. Export and other proceeds received in sterling or in other Sterling Area currencies must now be surrendered to authorized deal- ers in exchange. Sterling continues to be made freely available for authorized imports and other current commercial transactions, but applications by residents for amounts exceeding £10,000 per capita or family unit for other purposes, including travel and the transfer of capital, now require the approval of the Reserve Bank. However, trans- fers by members of a South African stock exchange to cover commit- ments in respect of purchases in London of South African shares may be made freely; for this purpose, the shares of companies registered in the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland which are listed on the London Stock Exchange or on both the London and the Johannesburg Stock Exchange are regarded as "South African." Transfers of capi- tal to the United Kingdom on South African account in excess of the exemption limit of £10,000 for the purchase of other securities are pro- hibited, unless the prior approval of the Reserve Bank is specifically obtained for the transfer of the excess amount required to purchase such securities. 294 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par value is United Kingdom Pound 1 = US$2.80. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in most currencies dealt with in the United Kingdom are maintained between official limits corresponding to US$2.82 buying, US$2.78 selling, per JBl.1 The Exchange Equalization Account is authorized to operate in foreign markets where Transfer- able Account sterling is traded at a discount. In general, authorized banks are allowed to cover spot and forward exchange transactions at market rates against sterling in the London exchange market or with banks in the country of the currency concerned, where the authorities of that country have given their approval. In the United Kingdom there is a uniform exchange rate system based on the Fund par values or, where countries have not an agreed parity, on official rates. The United Kingdom participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and Switzerland in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrange- ment, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, with other authorized banks in any of these territories in any of their currencies (except "free" Swiss francs and Financial Account Belgian f rancs ). The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Authorized banks may deal with Brazilian banks in Belgian francs, deutsche marks, Netherlands guilders, or sterling against any of these currencies. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transactions with other parts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U.K. exchange control); in addition to the United Kingdom, the Sterl- ing Area comprises Australia, Burma, Ceylon, Iceland, India, Iraq, Irish Republic, Hashemite Kingdom of the Jordan, Libya, New Zea- land, Pakistan, Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, and Union of South Africa, together with all British Colonies, Protectorates, Pro- tected States, and Trust Territories. Exceptionally, sterling payments 1 Official rates are quoted for the following currencies: Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche marks, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM to Hong Kong are screened to ensure that residents in other parts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's free market. Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury. However, much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to the com- mercial banks, practically all of which are authorized for this purpose. Import and export licensing is handled by the Board of Trade.,2 Prescription of Currency The prescription of the methods and currencies for making payments to and receiving payments from countries outside the Sterling Area is an integral part of the U.K. exchange control system and provides a mechanism for payments between all Sterling Area territories and the rest of the world. Payments to and receipts from countries with which the United Kingdom has negotiated Monetary Agreements,3 the American Account Area, and Canada may be made either in sterling or in the currency of the paying/receiving country or monetary area. Receipts from Transferable Account countries may also be accepted in any specified currency,* if freely offered and freely transferable to the United Kingdom. Payments to and from all other countries are effected predominantly in sterling—in most cases in conformity with Sterling Payments Agreements negotiated by the United Kingdom, under the terms of which the nonresident recipient can obtain his own local cur- rency. These arrangements are facilitated and controlled by dividing nonresident sterling accounts, according to the residence of the account holder, into two main groups—Canada and American Account coun- tries, and all other countries. General regulations show those transfers permitted between the various sterling accounts without reference to the exchange control authorities (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). 2 Export licensing in the United Kingdom, as in some other countries, is not related to exchange control. 8 Countries (monetary areas) covered by these Monetary Agreements are as follows: Belgian Monetary Area, Denmark (with the Faroe Islands and Green- land), French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Germany (and the British, French, and UJ3. Sectors of Berlin), Italian Monetary Area, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Portuguese Monetary Area, Sweden, and Switzerland (and Liechtenstein). 4 These specified currencies are listed as follows: Belgian francs, Belgian Congo francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche marks, francs of the French Franc Area, French Somali Coast (Djibouti) francs, Indo-Chinese piastres, Italian lire, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands, Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam guilders, Norwegian kroner, Panamanian dollars, Philippine pesos, Portu- guese escudos, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 296 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of persons, etc., resident in other parts of the Sterling Area (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are treated as those of residents. Thus, for transfers within the Sterling Area no ILK. exchange control permission is required, but for payments to other countries the U.K. authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority of the territory concerned. The sterling accounts (other than Blocked Accounts—see Group 4, below) of nonresidents, i.e., those resident outside the Sterling Area, are available for payments in the Sterling Area and for transfers to other nonresidents, according to the groups described below. Additional transferability is achieved by granting licenses to effect payments outside the prescribed arrangements. 1. American Accounts (Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Do- minican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States and possessions, and Venezuela) and Canadian Accounts. These accounts may be debited freely for payments to any sterling account (other than a Blocked Account). Balances on American Accounts and Canadian Accounts may be converted freely into Canadian or U.S. dollars or used to purchase gold through the London market. 2. Transferable Accounts (all countries outside the Sterling Area except Group 1). Payments from Transferable Accounts may be made freely to any account related to the Transferable Account Area (other than a Blocked Account). Transferable Account sterling is negotiable, mainly against U.S. dollars, in free markets abroad. 3. Registered Accounts (all countries outside the Sterling Area ex- cept Group 1). These accounts are intended primarily for entries related to the purchase and sale of gold in the London market. In addi- tion, Registered Accounts are freely convertible into Canadian or U.S. dollars. They may be credited with the proceeds of the sale of Canadian dollars or U.S. dollars to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom or with transfers from Canadian or American Accounts, and are avail- able for transfers to any sterling account, including payments to resi- dents in settlement of U.K. exports to any destination. 4. Blocked Accounts (all countries outside the Sterling Area except Denmark, Norway, and Sweden—residents of these three countries may transfer all their sterling assets to their respective countries). The pur- pose of these accounts is to receive funds that are not placed at the free 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM disposal of nonresidents, e.g., capital proceeds. Such funds may be used to purchase on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom securities that are payable in a Sterling Area currency, cannot be redeemed under any contractual provision within five years from the date of acquisition, and are not optionally payable in dollars. The income from such securities, and the maturity proceeds of any which are redeemable, may be remitted to the country of the holder. Transfers between Blocked Accounts are freely permitted, and Blocked Account sterling is negotiable, mainly against dollars, in free markets abroad. The No. 2 Accounts of banks in Egypt, except for transfers to other No. 2 Accounts, are blocked under a special arrangement. Imports and Import Payments Imports on government account are not subject to import license, but imports on private account are subject to one of the following types of import license: World Open General License (which permits any importer to import the goods covered by the license in any quantity from any country), Open General License (which permits any im- porter to import the goods covered by the license in any quantity from specified countries), Open Individual License (which permits an indi- vidual person or firm to import the goods specified in any quantity from the countries specified), and Individual Import License (which permits a specific import transaction by the person, for the goods, and from the country specified in the license). Subject to the submission of evidence of importation or, if this has not yet taken place, the relevant import license and evidence of value, foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident sterling account appropriate to the country of origin of the goods is granted auto- matically for imports. For imports of goods from, and originating in, any country outside the Sterling Area, other than Canada or a country in the American Account Area, payment may be made in sterling to the credit of a Transferable Account, or in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the country of the seller, if the currency is a specified currency (see footnote 4 ). For imports of goods from, and originating in, Canada or a country in the American Account Area, payment may be made to the credit of an American or Canadian Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) or in Canadian or U.S. dollars. For imports from other parts of the Sterling Area, pay- ment may be made freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area cur- rency, and no documentation is necessary for exchange control purposes. 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Commodity Markets and Transit Trade5 There are special schemes to facilitate commodity market transac- tions. The arrangements are as follows: 1. Cotton, grain, and refined sugar may be sold for sterling unless purchased for dollars, in which case they may be sold only for dollars. 2. Cocoa, coffee, and raw sugar of any origin, including the dollar area, may be sold for sterling except that, where these commodi- ties are of neither Sterling Area nor dollar area origin (i.e., when they originate in the Transferable Account Area) and are pur- chased for dollars, they may be resold only for dollars. 3. Copra, rubber, copper, lead, tin, and zinc, regardless of origin, may be sold anywhere for sterling. All commodities covered by the commodity market schemes must be sold for dollars when shipped to the dollar area. The export of these commodities to destinations outside the Sterling Area is subject to normal export requirements, but reimbursement in dollars is required for exports of cotton and grain of dollar area origin. Sugar refined in the United Kingdom may be exported to the Transferable Account Area against payment in sterling, regardless of the origin of the raw sugar used in its manufacture. Apart from the facilities for organized market transactions listed above, trading in goods originating outside the Sterling Area and not imported into the Sterling Area (except for transshipment) may be arranged on the basis that where payment is made in dollars, receipts must be obtained in dollars. When the Sterling Area trader makes pay- ment in other currencies, receipts must be obtained in dollars from pur- chasers in the dollar area, but from purchasers in other countries re- ceipts are acceptable in dollars, in Transferable Account sterling, or in any specified currency (see footnote 4). Payments for Invisibles An exchange license is required for all payments for invisibles to countries outside the Sterling Area. These licenses normally are granted, without discrimination as to recipient countries, in respect of 6 In this section, "dollars" includes Canadian dollars, UJ3. dollars, sterling on Canadian or American Account, and, in the case of receipts, sterling from a Registered Account; "sold for sterling" includes settlement in sterling from a Transferable Account or in any specified currency. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM payments under contracts entered into up to September 3, 1939 and under contracts entered into with approval since that date. Films, how- ever, are covered by special agreement. Applications for licenses for noncontractual payments are considered on their merits and some are subject to monetary limitations. In a few instances, noncontractual payments are subject also to discrimination as to the recipient country —e.g., in the case of tourists' expenses, where a basic travel allowance of £100 for each person of 12 years of age or over and £70 for each child under 12 years of age for the period November 1, 1955 to October 31, 1956 is available for use in all countries except the American Account Area and Canada.6 For travel to Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, bona fide travelers may obtain "any reasonable amount" of the appropriate exchange. The basic travel allowance is exclusive of the payment of fares, the cost of which is not limited for travel in countries outside the American Account Area and Canada, provided payment is made in sterling in the United Kingdom. No limits are placed on the cost of fares to and from the American Account Area and Canada, provided the journey is by a normal, direct route. Not more than £10 in British banknotes may be taken out of the United Kingdom, except by persons traveling directly to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands. A cer- tain freedom in exchange operations is granted to the insurance market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to a country outside the Sterling Area are permitted without specific exchange control approval, provided the proceeds are received in a prescribed or other permissible manner. For exports to the Ameri- can Account Area or Canada, payment must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars or in sterling from an American, Canadian, or Reg- istered Account. For exports to any other country outside the Sterling Area, payment must be received in sterling from an American, Cana- dian, or Registered Account, or a Transferable Account, or in any speci- fied currency that is freely offered and is freely transferable to the United Kingdom. The exchange control procedure is waived for exports not exceeding £25 f.o.b., and simplified for those not exceeding £250 f.o.b.T Exchange receipts in specified currencies must be offered to an 6 Canadian or ILS. dollars equivalent to £7 per journey may be sold as part of the basic allowance for incidental expenses of those traveling through countries in the dollar area en route to, and/or from, countries in which the basic allowance is available. A similar allowance is available to those traveling through countries in the dollar area en route between countries in the Sterling Area, who are not using the basic allowance or any other special allotment of currency. 7 Effective February 27, 1956, the exchange control procedure was waived for all exports not exceeding £250 f.o.b., other than private gifts in kind. 300 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM authorized bank. Apart from the exchange control requirements, cer- tain exports, mostly of a strategic character, and all exports to Main- land China and Hong Kong require export licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles in specified currencies must be surrendered. Permission is given for foreign exchange to be retained in controlled accounts if it is required for operating purposes. Not more than £10 in British banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom, except by persons traveling directly from the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands. Capital Transfers of resident capital to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval, which normally is granted for commercial investment that promises to employ Sterling Area skills or techniques or to assist Sterling Area exports or the production of raw materials. Permission may be obtained for the investment of foreign currency capital re- ceipts in marketable securities expressed in foreign currency, but any such receipts in a specified currency which have not been invested within six months must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign exchange or permission to credit sterling to a nonresident account related to his country or monetary area is granted freely for repayments abroad due to a nonresident in respect of matured capital obligations; otherwise, the proceeds of nonresident-owned capital may be credited only to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). However, residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden may transfer their capital freely to their respective countries. Persons resident outside the Sterling Area who make direct investments in the United Kingdom must provide appropriate foreign exchange, or sterling from a nonresident account other than a Blocked Account appropriate to their country of residence. Capital directly invested by a nonresident after January 1, 1950 in projects approved by the ex- change control authorities may be repatriated at any time, together with capital profits. Nonresidents may buy sterling securities on a recognized stock ex- change in the United Kingdom against payment appropriate to their country of residence or, if the securities could not be redeemed under any contractual provision within five years from the date of purchase, with sterling from a Blocked Account, except that prescribed securi- 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM ties8 may be purchased only with sterling from an American, Canadian, or Registered Account, or with U.S. or Canadian dollars sold to an authorized bank. Nonresidents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom, provided the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above) or reinvested in a Sterling Area security having at least five years to maturity (special rules apply to residents of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden). Interest, dividends, etc., from such securities and the maturity proceeds of any that are redeemable may be remitted to, or credited to, a sterling account appropriate to the country of residence of the owner. Nonresidents may purchase officially quoted non-sterling securities (other than prescribed securities) against sterling from an appropriate nonresident account. Such securities may not be resold on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom but may be exported. Residents may obtain permission to sell outside the Sterling Area securities expressed in foreign currency and to reinvest the proceeds in other marketable securities expressed in foreign currency, but if the securities sold are U.S. or Canadian dollar securities, the securities purchased must be U.S. or Canadian dollar marketable securities. Any sale proceeds in a specified currency which have not been reinvested within six months must be sold to an authorized bank. Banknotes The authorized banks may buy and sell foreign notes and coin, within certain limitations, at market rates of exchange. Purchases of foreign notes and coin from residents of the Sterling Area may be made with- out limitation, but purchases from persons resident outside the Sterling Area are limited to reasonable amounts for their current maintenance expenses while in the United Kingdom. The authorized banks may pur- chase Canadian and U.S. dollar notes from anyone, but they may pur- chase other currencies only from sellers resident in the same country or monetary area as that of the currency being sold. Authorized banks may, under certain conditions, sell foreign notes and coin for travel outside the Sterling Area, but not more than the equivalent of £25 per traveler or a sum sufficient to bring the amount required by a person resident outside the Sterling Area up to the amount brought by him into the United Kingdom. 8 Prescribed securities are those which are payable or carry the option of pay- ment of principal or interest in U.S. or Canadian dollars. 302 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Changes during 1955 January 7 The power of authorized banks to grant special allotments of travel exchange other than dollars was extended for applications involving the promotion of U.K. exports. January 10 The exchange control procedure for transactions in securities was simplified. February 1 Banks were allowed to grant loans at their discretion to companies resident in the Sterling Area but controlled from outside it. The trans- fer abroad of such moneys remained restricted. February 24 The Exchange Equalization Account was authorized to operate in exchange markets abroad where Transferable Account sterling is traded at a discount. March 17 The limits on the amounts of banknotes which travelers leaving the United Kingdom could take with them were raised for sterling bank- notes from £5 to £10 and for foreign currency notes from the equivalent o f. £10 to the equivalent of £25; nonresidents could continue to take out the foreign currency notes brought in by them. April 15 Exporters were permitted to accept payment for exports to any Transferable Account country in any specified currency freely offered and freely transferable to the United Kingdom. July 1 Turkey was included in the Transferable Account Area. July 7 Financial Account Belgian francs were excluded from arbitrage arrangements. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM August 12 U.K. importers of Brazilian goods were permitted to effect payment to Brazil with German-Brazilian "clearing dollars" purchased against deutsche marks or Transferable Account sterling. August 22 Authorized banks were permitted to deal spot with Brazilian banks in deutsche marks and Netherlands guilders against sterling or in deutsche marks against Netherlands guilders. The Italian lira became a specified currency (see section on Pre- scription of Currency, above). The Bank of England began to pub- lish daily official spot buying and selling rates for this currency. Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. August 24 Authorized banks were permitted to enter into bilateral forward transactions in Italian lire against sterling with banks in the Italian Monetary Area for periods up to three months over normal spot usance. August 30 The limit per journey of the equivalent of £5 in Canadian and/or U.S. dollars that could be provided as part of the basic travel allowance to meet the incidental expenses of a traveler passing through a dollar country en route to another country was raised to the equivalent of £7. The limit per journey in Canadian and/or U.S. dollars was also raised to £7 in cases where the dollars were not required to be provided as part of the basic allowance. September 5 The minimum life of securities in which blocked sterling funds may be invested was reduced from ten years to five years. Authorized banks and depositaries were permitted to transfer blocked sterling funds and sterling securities to residents of Canada or American Account coun- tries from residents of other countries outside the Sterling Area. Authorized depositaries were allowed to export nonresident-owned bearer securities payable in Sterling Area currencies. 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM November 1 Basic travel allowances for the period November 1, 1955 to Octo- ber 31, 1956 remained at the same level as for the previous 12 months. November 29 Authorized banks were permitted to deal spot with Brazilian banks in Belgian francs against deutsche marks, Netherlands guilders, and sterling. December 5 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for forward transactions not exceeding the normal spot usance by more than three months, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in opera- tion among most Western European countries. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System No par value for the Uruguayan Peso has been established with the Fund. There are several official buying rates for exports and several official selling rates for imports. An exchange tax of 6 per cent is applied to nearly all payments abroad connected with imports of merchan- dise, some exports benefit from exchange premiums, and a surcharge is applied to payments for certain nonessential and luxury imports. The fluctuating free market rates apply to certain invisibles and all capital transactions. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Bank of the Re- public. Exchange transactions related to imports, exports, and some invisibles pass through the authorized banks. Import licenses are issued by the Office of Export and Import Control. Prescription of Currency Payments with countries with which Uruguay has official payments agreements or interbank compensation agreements are made through accounts kept in specified currencies, as follows: with Argentina, Bel- gium, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Switzerland, in the currency of the partner country; with Austria, Brazil, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Den- mark, Finland, France, East Germany, the Federal Republic of Ger- many, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Paraguay, Poland, Spain,1 Turkey, and Yugoslavia, in accounting dollars; and with the U.S.S.R., in transfer- able sterling. Payments with other countries are made in the currency indicated in the license. Imports and Import Payments Imports, with only minor exceptions, require licenses. These licenses are granted within the global exchange quotas established by the Bank of the Republic for various currencies. The global quotas are dis- tributed by fixing an individual exchange quota for each importer and by issuing import licenses up to the limit of each quota. Exchange quotas for dollar goods are not necessarily given in dollars; sometimes they are given in inconvertible currencies if there is a surplus of the 1 The payments agreement with Spain had not, however, entered into effect when this Report was prepared. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY latter. Payments for all imports, with a few exceptions, are subject to a 6 per cent exchange tax. Imports may not be effected with free market exchange. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisible items covered by a payments agreement and involving the sale of exchange by the Bank of the Republic require the Bank's approval. Expenditures in foreign exchange incidental to im- ports are authorized together with the payment for the corresponding imports, and are subject to a 6 per cent exchange tax if the merchandise for which the expenditure is made is subject to this tax. All other payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are granted if the exchange pro- ceeds have been sold contractually to an authorized bank. However, exports of essential goods in short supply may be prohibited. Most export proceeds must be surrendered at the rates established for the various export commodities (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Exporters of greasy and scoured wool, wool tops and broken tops, and wool by-products may retain 2% per cent of the officially assessed value of their exports, when made against inconvertible currencies. Exporters of greasy and scoured wool and wool tops and broken tops may retain 5 per cent (2 per cent in the case of exports to the United States), and exporters of wool by-products may retain 2 per cent, of the officially assessed value of their exports, when made against U.S. dollars. Export- ers of cereals and oleaginous products (except linseed) may retain 1 per cent, and exporters of certain types of hides and skins may retain 2 per cent, of the f.o.b. value of their exports, irrespective of the currency against which they are exported. Such retained exchange may be sold in the free market. Some exports benefit from premiums paid from a surcharge established on payments for less essential, nonessential, and luxury imports. There is an exchange tax of 1 per cent applied to the exchange proceeds of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, utilized, or sold in the free market. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domestic banknotes. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Capital Inward and outward capital transfers by both residents and nonresi- dents are free. The corresponding transactions may take place freely in the free market. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (pesos per IMS. dollar) Buying Selling 1.519 Exports of meat, cattle hides,2 sheep- skins, linseed, flour, and wheat. 1.519 Government payments. Imports of newsprint, inks, cardboard matrix, and seed potatoes. 1.729 (Ur*1.619 plus Ur$0.21 Premium) Exports of greasy wool until Decem- ber 31, 1955.3 1.78 (69% at Ur*1.519 and 31% at Exports of edible oils, linseed cake and flour, packing house products, bristles, and other animal skins. 1.81 (90% at Ur$U19 and 10% at Ur&J35 plus UrtQ&l Premium) Exports of washed wool until Decem- ber 31, 1955.« 1.90 Exports of linseed oil other than from the 1954-55 crop; exports of that crop made after September 30, 1955.4 2.10 (30% at Ur$l£19 and 70% at Exports of crude crushed dolomite and brown paper. 2.15 (24% at Urtl£19 and 76% at Exports of fabrics of rayon and rayon mixtures, wheat gluten, and native sandals. 2.10 Essential imports, such as optical goods and machinery (exempt from exchange tax). 2 A rate of Ur$2.25 per US$1 was established on January 10, 1956 for exports of dried cattle hides. 3 The premium of Ur$0.21 per US$1 applicable to exports of greasy and washed wool until December 31, 1955 has since been extended until March 31, 1956. 4 The rate for linseed oil from the 1954-55 harvest exported before September 30, 1955 was announced on September 22,1955 as Ur$2.126 per US$1. In February 1956, the rate for linseed oil export proceeds was reduced to Ur$1.78 per US$1. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (pesos per UJS. dollar) Buying Setting 2.166 (Ur&.026 plus Ur$0.14 Premium) Exports of wool tops, broken tops, and their by-products until March 31, 1956.5 2.35 Exports of canned meat and meat ex- tract produced after July 1,1955, woolen manufactures, frozen mutton, pork, pressed bricks, bricks, clay, and pieces of refractory material, wine, and linseed oil from the 1953-54 harvest.6 2.60 Exports of leather goods (up to US$2 million). 2.80 Exports of woolen textiles (up to US$2 million). 3.10 (Ur&JSB plus Ur$0.75 Premium) Exports of 4,500 tons of hulled rice from the 1954 harvest. 3.64 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) All invisibles. All capital. Note: This table does not take account of an exchange tax of 1 per cent applied to export proceeds, or of other effec- tive "mixing" rates derived from the negotiation at the free market rate of that proportion of certain export pro- ceeds not surrenderable at the official rates. 2.226 (VrM.10 plus 8% Tax) Other essential imports. 2.968 (Ur*2.80 plus 6% Tax) Most nonessential and luxury imports. 3.67 (Fluctuating Free Market Rate) Certain invisibles. All capital. 3.85 (Ur$t£0 plus VrtllOB Surcharge) Specific quotas of less essential, non- essential, and luxury imports estab- lished in January 1955. Imports of olive oil, whisky, cigarettes, watches, buttons, furs, worsteds, motorcars, taxis, pottery, porcelain, and textiles. 5 A premium of Ur$0.047 per US$1 applicable to exports of wool tops, broken tops, and their by-products during the period April 1, 1956 through June 30, 1956 was established December 28,1955, making the effective rate Ur$2.073 per US$1. 6 See footnote 4. 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Changes during 1955 January 1 The rate of Ur$2.35 per US$1 was applied to exports of linseed oil from the 1953-54 harvest, by a decree of December 21, 1954; the ex- ports had to be made before February 15,1955. Import quotas for non- essential and luxury goods, approved by a decree of December 10,1954, to a total of US$17.6 million (US$9.3 million for nonessential goods and US$8.3 million for luxury goods) were announced. The rate of Ur$2.45 plus an extra charge of Ur$1.05 per US$1 was applied to imports of olive oil, whisky, cigarettes, watches, buttons, furs, worsteds, motorcars and taxis, pottery, porcelain, and textiles. Rates of Ur$1.90 or Ur$2.45 per US$1 were applied to other nonessential and luxury imports. February 1 An export quota of US$1 million was opened for exports of cured hides and skins. February 8 A rate of Ur$2.026 per US$1 was applied to exports of wool tops, broken tops, and their by-products. February 11 A rate of Ur$2.35 plus a premium of Ur$0.75 per US$1 was applied to exports of 4,500 tons of hulled rice of the 1954 harvest. The period for exports of linseed oil of the 1953-54 harvest (see January 1, above) was extended to March 31, 1955. March 15 The period for exports of hulled rice of the 1954 harvest (see Febru- ary 11, above) was extended to April 15, 1955. March 29 The period for exports of linseed oil of the 1953-54 harvest (see February 11, above) was extended to April 10, 1955. March 30 Holders of import permits in sterling were made subject to the same regulations regarding the closing of exchange contracts as holders of 310 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY permits in other currencies; i.e., they must have the relative shipping documents in hand in order to purchase the corresponding import ex- change on a short or future basis. April 27 A rate of Ur$2.35 per US$1 was applied to exports of 20,000 tons of hulled rice. July 1 A rate of Ur$2.35 per US$1 was applied to exports of canned meat and meat extract produced after July 1, 1955. July 26 A rate of Ur$1.935 per US$1 was applied to exports of tires produced in Uruguay. August 23 A rate of Ur$2.35 per US$1 was applied to exports of liver powder. September 15 A decree was issued announcing the establishment of the following premiums for exports of greasy and washed wool: Ur$0.21 per US$1 from September 15,1955 to December 31,1955; Ur$0.14 per US$1 from January 1, 1956 to March 31, 1956 (but see footnote 3, above); and Ur$0.07 per US$1 from April 1, 1956 to June 30, 1956. The premiums would be revised if foreign wool prices should rise by more than 15 per cent over the prices prevailing on the date of the decree. On the selling side, the previous rates of Ur$1.90 per US$1 for essential imports and Ur$2.45 per US$1 for nonessential and luxury imports were changed to Ur$2.10 and Ur$2.80 per US$1, respectively. Receipts accruing as a result of these increases in the selling rates were to be credited to a special account called the "Exchange Market Equalization Fund." The export premiums for greasy and washed wool would be paid out of this Fund. September 22 Exports of linseed were prohibited. The following effective export rates were fixed for linseed products: linseed cake and flour, Ur$1.78 per US$1; linseed oil from the 1954-55 crop exported before Septem- ber 30, 1955, Ur$2.126 per US$1; other linseed oil, Ur$1.90 per US$1. 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY October 21 It was announced that exports of manufactured products of wool were to continue at the same rates previously announced for them, with- out prejudice to readjustments which might be applied to them later in consequence of the modifications for greasy and washed wool export proceeds recently established (see September 15, above). November 25 A rate of Ur$2.35 (previously Ur$1.519) was applied to exports of frozen mutton. December 28 The following premiums on exports of wool tops and broken tops were established, in addition to the application of the special controlled market rate of Ur$2.026: Ur$0.14 per US$1 on exports effected Septem- ber 16, 1955 through March 31, 1956 (effective rate, Ur$2.166); and Ur$0.047 per US$1 on exports effected April 1, 1956 through June 30, 1956 (effective rate, Ur$2.073). In addition, fixed valuations would determine the amount of export proceeds to be surrendered at the official rate; any resulting difference from the foreign exchange actually obtained would be negotiated in the free exchange market. 312 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Yugoslav Dinars 300 = US$1. This rate is used for some specified government payments, for receipts and payments of a few invisibles, including payments of foreign debt service, and for both incoming and outgoing capital. Multiple currency practices apply to other transactions. "Settlement" rates, fixed for various currencies, form the basic rates for exports, most imports, and commercial invisibles, but effective rates are obtained by applying to these basic rates a series of coefficients (see below). As at January 1,1956, the "settlement" rates for the U.S. dol- lar and the pound sterling were Din 632 per US$1 and Din 1,752 per £1. The National Bank sells exchange for payments for 85 to 90 groups of specified imports. The price of this exchange is, in principle, determined on an auction basis, with purchasers bidding for exchange; in practice, however, there is no bidding and allocations are made at the level of the "settlement" rates, to which import coefficients are applied. Imports for essential investment projects and imports of defense equipment financed from the General Investment Fund are effected at the "settlement" rate, subject to a revaluation factor of 1.00. The use of a premium of 33% per cent on the official rate yields an effective rate of Din 400 per US$1 for receipts from tourism and from diplomatic and other foreign missions, and the use of a premium of 100 per cent on the official rate yields an effective rate of Din 600 per US$1 for emigrants' remittances, inheritances, exchange for travel, and other specified noncommercial receipts and payments. A system of coefficients (multipliers), varying for different import and export commodities and applied to the relevant (official and "set- tlement") rates, produces numerous effective exchange rates. As at January 1, 1956, there were 20 import coefficients, ranging from 0.5 to 4.0, and 35 export coefficients, ranging from 0.5 to 3.0. The "settlement" rates involve broken cross rates for various foreign currencies; con- sequently, the effective exchange rates produced by the application of coefficients are also disparate. Imports of some essential food items (wheat and fats) are effected at the official rate and no coefficient is applied; however, if the domestic price is higher than the foreign price, the importer is, in principle, supposed to pay an additional amount equivalent to the difference between the foreign and the domestic price. 1 In view of the changes which took place on January 1, 1956 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey relates to the position as at that date. 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Other essential food imports (e.g., rice, coffee, spices) are made at the "settlement" rate, but no coefficient is applied. There is also a small free market in which the National Bank sells exchange, at fluctuating rates, for some import transactions and some invisibles. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control All foreign exchange transactions have to be effected through the National Bank, which manages a Central Exchange Fund. The Central Exchange Fund administers exchange accruing from exchange proceeds surrendered by exporters and other exchange earners. The Economic Board of the Federal Executive Council determines surrender require- ments, fixes the limits on each type of exchange allocation to be made from the Central Exchange Fund, and establishes rules and regulations governing exchange transactions. Markets for special sales of exchange are established at the Central Offices of the National Bank in the six Yugoslav republics. Prescription of Currency Payments are made according to the method or channel of payment provided for in the payments agreement with the country concerned.2 If no agreement exists, payment is usually made in U.S. or Canadian dollars, pounds sterling, or Swiss francs. Nonresident Accounts The opening of nonresident accounts is subject to the approval of the National Bank. In granting such approval, the National Bank stipulates the conditions under which the accounts may be operated. In general, the dinar account of a nonresident individual may be utilized by the account holder only to cover expenses of his stay in Yugoslavia; the use of such balances for commercial operations is not permitted. Nonresident accounts may be opened also with foreign exchange imported into Yugoslavia, and these foreign exchange bal- ances may be used within Yugoslavia for payments in dinars for com- mercial or private purposes; their transfer abroad is subject to indi- vidual licensing by the National Bank. 2 Yugoslavia has payments agreements with Albania, Argentina, Austria, Bel- gium-Luxembourg, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indo- nesia, Israel, Italy, Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Trieste, Turkey, U.S.S.R., and Uruguay. 314 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Imports and Import Payments Importing is confined largely to registered domestic economic organ- izations, and import licenses are not required. Payments for practically all imports are effected with exchange from the Central Exchange Fund. Exchange is allocated directly from the Central Exchange Fund for payments for imports of essential food items and of goods for key invest- ment projects and for defense, and for some imports of equipment for use in projects other than in key investment projects. Exchange sur- rendered to the Central Exchange Fund is also sold by the National Bank for payments for some 85 to 90 specified groups of imports; quantitative limits are established on the amounts of exchange made available for these groups. In addition, the National Bank sells ex- change in a small free market at fluctuating rates for a few imports. Import coefficients are applied to most imports; these are determined on the basis that their application to the relevant rate of exchange equal- izes the domestic price of the product with the foreign price (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions are treated in a manner similar to that accorded to payments for merchan- dise transactions. Foreign exchange for specified government payments and for payments for foreign debt service is allocated from the Central Exchange Fund at the official rate. Foreign exchange for travel, up to a maximum of Din 6,000 per person, is allocated from the Central Ex- change Fund at the official rate plus 100 per cent. Exchange for family maintenance remittances also is subject to the official rate plus 100 per cent. The Secretariat for the Budget allocates annual exchange quotas to the republics for education, specialization, and medical services; exchange is sold at the official rate for these transactions and appli- cants must obtain authorization from the authorities of the republics. The National Bank also sells exchange for a few invisibles in a small free market at freely fluctuating rates. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in notes of Din 100 or less, may be taken out by travelers. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a number of goods are prohibited and exports of certain other goods are subject to quota and require individual licenses; all other goods may be exported freely. Ninety-nine per cent of export pro- ceeds must be surrendered to the National Bank at the "settlement" rate; the remaining 1 per cent may be used by exporters for expenses 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA abroad incidental to their own transactions and for other payments of their own abroad; if not used, this exchange may only be sold to the National Bank at the "settlement" rate. However, economic organiza- tions acting as commercial agencies in international trade have to sur- render only 50 per cent of realized foreign exchange earnings to the National Bank; the remaining 50 per cent may be used for expenses abroad incidental to their transactions and for other payments of their own abroad. Export coefficients are applied to the exchange rate when calculating the local currency equivalent of most export proceeds. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from practically all invisibles must be surrendered to the National Bank at the effective rate of exchange applicable for the particular transaction. Receipts from tourism and from diplomatic and other foreign missions must be surrendered at the official rate and receive a premium of 33% per cent; receipts from emigrants' remit- tances, inheritances, maintenance, gifts, and other noncommercial items at the official rate receive a 100 per cent premium. Proceeds from invis- ibles related to merchandise transactions are treated in a manner simi- lar to that accorded to proceeds from merchandise transactions. Eco- nomic organizations realizing foreign exchange as earnings from the execution of development work abroad may use such exchange for their own payments abroad. Further, the Economic Board of the Federal Executive Council can determine the portion of exchange proceeds earned by transport and other service organizations that must be sur- rendered and the portion that may be retained for use by these organi- zations abroad; the portion that may be retained varies between 20 and 100 per cent. Not more than Din 1,500 in Yugoslav banknotes, in notes of Din 100 or less, may be brought in by travelers. Capital All transfers of a capital nature by both residents and nonresidents are subject to individual license. Authorization is seldom granted for foreign participation in enterprises in Yugoslavia operated, in whole or in part, with foreign capital. However, foreign loans to Yugoslav enterprises are admitted on a more liberal basis. The National Bank may provide a guarantee that foreign exchange will be made available to meet the schedule of payments agreed to by a Yugoslav economic enterprise in the negotiation of an extension of a credit by a foreign firm. Unless specifically permitted to retain foreign exchange, resi- dents are obliged to repatriate and surrender foreign exchange held abroad. Capital transfers abroad by residents are usually not approved. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Table of Exchange Rates (as at January 1, 1956) (dinars per UJS. dollar) Buying 300 (Official Rate) Receipts of exchange from invisibles not specified below. Incoming capital. 400 (Official Rate plus 83% % Premium) Receipts from tourism and from diplo- matic and other foreign missions. 600 (Official Rate plus 100% Premium) Receipts from emigrants' remittances, inheritances, maintenance, gifts, and other noncommercial items. 632 ("Settlement" Rate) « Exports and commercial services.6 Selling 300 (Official Rate) Foreign debt service. Commercial and noncommercial payments by the Gov- ernment, autonomous agencies, and social institutions.3 Payments within determined quotas for education, spe- cialization, and medical services. Im- ports of wheat and fats.4 Outgoing capital. 600 (Official Rate plus 100%) Exchange for travel and family main- tenance remittances. Other private non- commercial payments. 632 ("Settlement" Rate) 5 Most imports7 and service payments incidental to merchandise transactions.3 1,083 (Free Market Rate) 8 National Bank sales for a small volume of imports and invisibles. Changes during 1955 March 1 A revision of export controls added some items to the list of pro- hibited exports. 3 Actual effective rates are created by the application of 20 import coefficients, ranging from 0.5 to 4.0, to specified categories of imports and other payments. 4 No coefficient is applied to imports of wheat and fats. However, if the domestic price is higher than the foreign price, the importer is, in principle, supposed to pay an additional amount equivalent to the difference between the foreign and the domestic price. Other essential food imports (e.g., rice, coffee, spices) are made at the "settlement" rate, but no coefficient is applied. 5 These rates are only for the U.S. dollar. "Settlement" rates are also fixed for export proceeds in other currencies. "Settlement" rates for import payments in TLS. dollars and other currencies are, in principle, determined on an auction basis but in practice are at or near the levels of the "settlement" rates fixed for exports. 6 Actual effective rates are created by the application of 35 export coefficients, ranging from 0.5 to 3.0, to specified categories of exports and other receipts. 7 Under the regulations of January 1, 1956, provision was made for essential investment imports and imports of defense equipment financed from the General Investment Fund to be made at the "settlement" rate, multiplied by a revaluation factor fixed later at 1.00. 8 This rate is the average rate for the TLS. dollar during January 1956. Other rates exist for other currencies. 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA October A regulation was put into effect requiring importers desiring to im- port industrial equipment to submit to the National Bank offers from at least three countries in Western and Eastern Europe. When goods to be imported are also produced in Yugoslavia, the importer must have a declaration by the Yugoslav manufacturer stating that the equipment cannot be delivered within the specified time limit or to the importer's specifications. Note: Changes effective January 1, 1956 are described below. Exporters were no longer permitted to retain from 1 to 20 per cent, depending on the commodity, of their export proceeds. Proceeds from exports and commercial services were to be surrendered entirely to the National Bank at the "settlement" rate, with only the following ex- ceptions: exporters could retain 1 per cent of their proceeds; organiza- tions acting as commercial agencies in international trade could retain for their own use 50 per cent of their realized foreign exchange trans- actions; transport and other service enterprises could retain for their own use from 20 to 100 per cent of their exchange earnings; and eco- nomic organizations realizing foreign exchange as earnings from the execution of development works abroad could retain such exchange for their own use. Retained exchange could no longer be sold on the free market and if not utilized had to be surrendered to the National Bank at the "settlement" rate; consequently, the foreign exchange profits tax of 30 per cent on retained exchange sold on the free market was abolished. Sales of exchange in the free market could be made only by the National Bank. A premium of 33% per cent on the official rate, yielding an effective rate of Din 400 per US$1, was introduced for receipts of exchange from tourism and from diplomatic and foreign missions. Exchange realized by hotels and restaurants could no longer be retained in part but had to be surrendered hi full to the National Bank at the official rate plus a premium of 33% per cent. Provision was made for importers of goods under domestic price con- trol, and for exporters regardless of the commodity, to settle trans- actions at coefficients lower for exports and higher for imports than the ones prescribed, and to receive a premium of 10 per cent of the differ- ence between the prescribed coefficient and the coefficient at which settlement is made; this premium could be used for special internal purposes to create incentives for settlement at less favorable coefficients. 318 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution "ARTICLE VIII COUNTRIES" Canada Cuba Dominican Republic El Salvador Guatemala Haiti Honduras Mexico Panama United States Venezuela ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA Exchange Rate System The exchange value of the Canadian Dollar is allowed to fluctuate. The noon market rate on December 30,1955 was Can$0.9991 per US$1. Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On March 26, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for a few agricultural items. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are freely disposable. For supply reasons, a few commodities are under export control to all destinations. For security reasons, a list of restricted commodities is under export control to all destinations except the United States, and all exports to the U.S.S.R. and certain other destinations are subject to control by permit. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no requirements attached to exchange receipts from, or exchange payments for, invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control obligations attached to capital receipts or payments by either residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA Exchange Rate System The par value is Cuban Peso 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are 1.00 peso buying (and selling for certain capital transfers), 1.02 pesos selling (including a 2 per cent tax on the export of funds, securities, and merchandise), per US$1. There are no exchange restrictions on foreign payments except the 2 per cent tax. Special requirements, how- ever, are attached to payments to France, Spain, Mainland China, and North Korea. On December 18, 1953, Cuba notified the Fund that it assumed fully the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Cuban Monetary Stabilization Fund, whose administration is entrusted to a committee consisting of the Minister of Finance, the President of the National Bank of Cuba, and the Director of the Stabili- zation Fund, has power to operate exchange control directly or through the National Bank. Prescription of Currency The only requirements in respect of the method of payment are as follows: 1. In accordance with an agreement with France, settlements between Cuba and the French Franc Area are made through agreement accounts in French francs at the Bank of France in the name of the National Bank of Cuba and/or in U.S. dollars at the National Bank of Cuba in the name of the Bank of France. Payments on account of Cuban sugar sold to French purchasers are settled 50 per cent in French francs and 50 per cent in U.S. dollars through these accounts; payments due to French residents for imports into Cuba or due to French shipping companies for ocean freight are made through the agreement accounts in U.S. dollars. Payments for Cuban imports of French goods in compensation for sales of Cuban cigars and tobacco up to a limit of US$1 million per year are outside these arrangements. 2. Under the terms of a payments agreement with Spain, payments between Spanish and Cuban residents are effected through clearing accounts expressed in Cuban pesos. 322 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA 3. Payments to residents of Mainland China and North Korea must be made by bank transfer through a bank located in the United States. Nonresident Accounts There are no restrictions with respect to the accounts in local cur- rency of nonresidents. Such accounts may be opened and operated freely, with the exception of accounts of residents of Spain. With- drawals from nonresident accounts are subject to the 2 per cent ex- change tax if the funds are sent or used abroad. Imports and Import Payments A few imports are subject to licensing for registration and statistical purposes. Imports from France and Spain (countries with which Cuba has concluded payments agreements) can be cleared only upon the presentation of an authorization from the Stabilization Fund. Apart from special requirements attached to payments to certain countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, above), all other payments may be made freely. There is an exchange tax of 2 per cent on exchange payments and transfers on account of imports. Payments for Invisibles The 2 per cent exchange tax is charged on all payments on account of invisibles. Otherwise, payments for invisibles are permitted freely, but obligations concerning the method of payment apply to certain payments (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). A limit of $50 is placed on foreign or domestic currency notes that travelers, other than tourists, may take out of the country without payment of the 2 per cent tax. Tourists are exempt from the 2 per cent tax on per- sonal funds they carry when leaving the country. Exports and Export Proceeds In general, exports do not require licenses. The proceeds of exports not credited to a bank account in Cuba are subject to the 2 per cent exchange tax on transfers abroad. Thirty per cent of the dollar exchange proceeds of sugar and syrup exports must be surrendered at the official rate. There are no other exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange earnings from invisibles are freely disposable. 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CUBA Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by either residents or nonresidents. The 2 per cent exchange tax is charged on the export of capital, on withdrawals of actual U.S. currency from banks in Cuba, even if made from U.S. dollar accounts, and on the export of securities. The tax is refunded when it is proved that the proceeds of the sale of the securities have been returned to Cuba. When duly registered with the Stabilization Fund, capital imported for investment (1) in industrial, agricultural, or other enterprises or undertakings in Cuba, (2) in securities issued by such enterprises, or (3) in securities of the State of Cuba, the Cuban Bank for Agricultural and Industrial Development, or other similar institutions, is exempt from the 2 per cent tax in the event that such capital is re-exported. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is Dominican Peso 1.00 = US$1. U.S. dollar trans- actions between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks are effected at parity. Exchange transactions by com- mercial banks with the public also take place at the par value, subject to small banking commissions.1 The Dominican Republic has no ex- change restrictions on foreign payments. All payments abroad must, however, be made through banks, and there is an exchange licensing system, but it is not exercised in a restrictive manner. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2,3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange licenses are issued by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Banking, and the commercial banks have the obligation to submit daily applications for exchange to the Ministry. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad, except that all payments abroad must be made through banks. Imports and Import Payments With a few exceptions, import licenses are not required; but all appli- cations for exchange have to be submitted daily by the banks for approval by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Banking. This system of exchange licensing is maintained for statistical purposes and is not exercised restrictively. Licenses are issued within 24 hours after the filing of applications. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licenses, which are issued within 24 hours after the filing of applications. No restrictions are imposed on such payments. 1 Effective February 1, 1956, the commercial banks decided not to subject their purchases of travelers checks to commissions or discounts of any kind. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required only for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agreement, and for a few other special items. There are no exchange requirements attached to export proceeds and these may be disposed of freely. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange requirements are attached to proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of capital by either resi- dents or nonresidents. Applications for exchange for capital remit- tances must be submitted daily by the banks for formal approval by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Banking. Changes during 1955 March 9 Official Decree No. 689 abolished controls over imports of rice. October 10 Official Decree No. 1218 established the requirement of import per- mits for iron reinforcing rods. 326 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR Exchange Rate System The par value is Salvadoran Colones 2.50 = US$1. The official rates are <jD 2.49 buying, 0 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the public take place at or within these limits. El Salvador has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, except that payments to certain countries with which El Salvador has pay- ments agreements must be made through special accounts. On Novem- ber 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency Payments for merchandise transactions with countries with which El Salvador has special payments agreements, i.e., Italy and Spain, must be made through special accounts in accordance with the terms of those agreements.1 El Salvador also has a payments agreement with Nicaragua, but payments for merchandise transactions with that country may be made either through special accounts or through other legal means. Otherwise, there are no obligations imposed on residents prescribing the method or currency for payments. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, but a few imports are subject to regulation and all imports from Italy require the prior authorization of the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, but payments for imports from Italy and Spain must be made through special accounts. Because of the payments agreement with Nicaragua, some imports from that country are paid for through special accounts. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange control requirements attached to the proceeds of exports, except that receipts from exports to countries with which 1 The Official Gazette of El Salvador, dated January 18, 1956, recorded the signing on December 21, 1955 of a protocol to the agreement with Italy which provided that payments between the two countries would no longer have to be made through special accounts. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR El Salvador has payments agreements must be obtained through special accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds from Invisibles There are no exchange control requirements attached to proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital transfers made by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1955 January 25 Imports of sacks or bags of jute or similar coarse fibers were made subject to prior approval of the Ministry of Economy. June 21 A decree was issued making all imports from Italy subject to prior authorization of the Central Reserve Bank. 328 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is Guatemalan Quetzal 1.00 = US$1. The official rates are Q 1.0000 buying, Q 1.0075 selling, per US$1. Guatemala has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Purchases and sales of exchange must, however, be made through banks. On January 27,1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely through banks. Import regulations cover a few specified items. A customs surcharge of 100 per cent is charged on nonessential imports from countries with which Guatemala has an unfavorable trade balance of more than 75 per cent. As of December 31, 1955, this surcharge applied to imports, with certain exceptions, from Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Poland, and Uruguay. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange requirements attached to the proceeds of ex- ports, but the sale of foreign exchange must take place through a bank. Export licenses are required for a few items. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles Payments for invisible transactions are not restricted, except that sales and purchases of foreign exchange must be made through banks. Minor exchange transactions by tourists and travelers are exempt from this requirement. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rate System The par value is Haitian Gourdes 5.00 = US$1. This is a uniform rate, applicable to all transactions. Exchange transactions by commer- cial banks with the public are subject to small banking commissions. Under a law of February 22, 1948, there is a tax of 3 per cent on the remittance abroad of amounts derived from insurance premiums. Otherwise, Haiti has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On December 22,1953, Haiti notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments There are no quantitative restrictions on imports, but a few imports are controlled. Payments abroad may be made freely. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted, except for a 3 per cent tax on the remittance abroad of amounts derived from premiums col- lected by insurance companies. Under a law of September 12, 1951, 20 per cent of the net profits realized each year by insurance companies operating in Haiti has to be invested in nonnegotiable obligations of the Institut Haitien de Credit Agricole et Industriel, reimbursable in two years. There exists a regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibiting the export and import of U.S. banknotes in denominations of over $20. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. The export of gold coins, bullion, etc., may be effected only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. A few exports are sub- ject to license. 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Proceeds from Invisibles There are no exchange control requirements attached to proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Exchange Rate System The par value is Honduran Lempiras 2.00 — US$1. The official rates are L 2.00 buying, L 2.02 selling, per US$1. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or with the banking system for account of the Central Bank. Exchange may be purchased from local banks without restriction, but for statistical purposes buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. On August 19, 1950, Honduras noti- fied the Fund that it had assumed the obligations of Article VIII, Sec- tions 2,3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning July 1,1950. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, but for statis- tical purposes buyers of exchange are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Import licenses are required for a few items. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. Earners of foreign exchange may retain their export proceeds or use them for international transactions. Those wishing to negotiate their exchange in Honduras may do so only with the Central Bank or with the banking system for account of the Central Bank. There is a prohibition on all exports, re-exports, and transshipments to countries of the Soviet bloc. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. 332 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to capital pay- ments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par value is Mexican Pesos 12.50 = US$1. The official rates are Mex$12.49 buying, Mex$12.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks with the public take place at market rates fluctuating within these limits. The closing market rate on Decem- ber 31,1955 was Mex$12.49 per US$1. Mexico has no exchange restric- tions on foreign payments, except that payments to certain countries with which Mexico has payments agreements may be made through special accounts. The granting of some import licenses is subject to quantitative restriction. On November 12, 1946, Mexico notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or others prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Payments for transactions with Spain, Czechoslovakia, and Indonesia, as well as for imports and exports of books and peri- odicals from or to Argentina, may be recorded by the Bank of Mexico through special accounts. (Mexico has payments agreements with Argentina and Czechoslovakia; the agreement with Indonesia is be- tween the central banks of the two countries; and the agreement with Spain is between the Bank of Mexico and the Spanish Foreign Ex- change Institute.) Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad are made freely. Payments for im- ports from Argentina, Czechoslovakia, Indonesia, and Spain may be recorded through special accounts. For a considerable number of items, a prior import license must be obtained from the Ministry of Economy; the issuance of such licenses is subject to quantitative restriction. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not restricted. Such transactions with certain countries may be recorded through special accounts (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). The contracting of insurance with foreign companies for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico 334 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO or may occur in Mexico, is permitted only with branches established in Mexico in accordance with Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange requirements attached to the proceeds of ex- ports. Certain exports require export licenses. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no exchange requirements attached to proceeds from invisibles. Capital There are no exchange control requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1955 On various dates during the year, additions were made to the list of items subject to restrictive import licensing. February 15 A payments agreement was signed by the Bank of Mexico and the Bank Indonesia by which payments between the two countries would be channeled through centralized accounts in the two institutions. October 31 The bilateral payments agreement with France was terminated. 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is Panamanian Balboa 1.00 = US$1. U.S. currency notes circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by the silver balboa and subsidiary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments Payments abroad may be made freely. Import controls are in effect for a few items. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted. Capital There are no exchange requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 336 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15%i grains of gold Ko fine, which is equivalent to US$35 per fine ounce, at which price (with allowance for handling charges and expenses) the Treasury buys and sells gold from and to governments, central banks, and other official institutions of other countries. There are no restrictions on foreign pay- ments, with the exception of transactions involving Mainland China and North Korea and their nationals, which are subject to license as an economic defense measure. The United States notified the Fund on December 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals with license applications for trans- actions involving the Mainland Chinese or North Korean authorities or their nationals, or involving imports of merchandise known or believed to be of Chinese Communist or North Korean origin. Licenses required for agricultural and dairy products placed under import quota are issued by the Department of Agriculture. For most other items subject to licensing requirements, the Department of Commerce is the responsi- ble authority. Imports and Import Payments Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with the excep- tion of payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of Mainland China and North Korea, which are prohibited except under license. Imports of merchandise known or believed to be of Chinese Communist or North Korean origin are subject to license. There are import quotas established for certain dairy and agricultural products. Special import quotas apply to cordage and sugar from the Philippine Republic, under the Philippine Trade Act of 1946 as revised. Exports and Export Proceeds There are no exchange requirements attached to the proceeds of exports. All exports to countries in the Soviet bloc are subject to license. In general, exports to other countries of strategic materials and of materials in short supply also require licenses. 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except where they involve Mainland China or North Korea. Capital There are no exchange requirements attached to incoming or outgoing capital payments by residents or nonresidents, except for transactions involving Mainland China or North Korea. Changes during 1955 May 16 It was announced that the import quota on shelled peanuts was sus- pended until July 31 and unlimited quantities could be imported. September 6 The trade agreement with the Philippine Republic was revised, effec- tive Jauary 1, 1956. Included in the provisions was the abolition of absolute quotas on imports of cigars, tobacco, coconut oil, pearl buttons, and rice from the Philippines. Absolute quotas remained applicable only to imports of cordage and sugar. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA1 Exchange Rate System The par value is Venezuelan Bolivares 3.35 = US$1. There is an official selling rate of Bs 3.35 per US$1. The corresponding buying rate fluctuates around Bs 3.33 per US$1 and applies to all purchases of exchange except those from the petroleum companies and, under certain conditions, from cacao and coffee exporters. The official selling rate applies to all sales of exchange except for government imports. There is a multiple exchange rate system comprising preferential rates for both government imports and the proceeds of coffee and cacao exports, and special buying rates applied to purchases of exchange from the petroleum companies. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) There is no system of payment licenses, and only a few import restrictions are maintained, principally for protective purposes. Administration of Control Prior import licenses, which are required for certain imports, are issued by the government department concerned. Under the terms of a contract with the Government, the Central Bank of Venezuela has the responsibility for ensuring that the special exchange rates are applied to the appropriate transactions. Prescription of Currency There are no currency prescription requirements in force. Imports and Import Payments Some items are subject to import licensing by various government departments, and import quotas are applied to a few commodities for protective purposes. Licenses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic products equal to a prescribed percentage of the amount imported. No restrictions are imposed on payments for imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely at the Bs 3.35 rate. 1 Venezuela has not notified the Fund that it is prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. This survey is included in this group as the Fund does not consider that Venezuela applies exchange measures under Article XIV. 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exports and Export Proceeds There are no limitations on exports, but the export of strategic mate- rials to certain countries is prohibited, and export licenses are required for a few products essential to the domestic economy. The petroleum companies must surrender export proceeds to the extent of their local currency requirements at a rate of Bs 3.09 per US$1; a rate of Bs 3.046259 per US$1 is applied to exchange surrendered by them in excess of the Central Bank's sales of exchange to domestic buyers dur- ing any one year. The proceeds of exports other than petroleum are sold at the Bs 3.33 rate, but if the world prices for cacao and coffee are below certain levels, a proportion of the proceeds of exports of cacao and unwashed coffee may be sold at a rate of Bs 4.25, and of exports of washed coffee at a rate of Bs 4.80, per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles are freely disposable or may be sold at the Bs 3.33 rate. Capital Payments for transfers of capital may be made freely at the Bs 3.35 rate. Exchange receipts from capital are freely disposable or may be sold at the Bs 3.33 rate. 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1955) (bolivares per £/.£. dollar) Buying Selling 3.09 Government payments. 3.35 All other payments. 3.046259 Local currency requirements of petro- leum companies in excess of the Cen- tral Bank's foreign exchange sales dur- ing the given year. 3.09 Local currency requirements of petro- leum companies up to the limits of the Central Bank's foreign exchange sales during the given year. 3.33 Coffee and cacao exports in a propor- tion depending on world prices. All other exports except petroleum. Invis- ibles. Capital. 4.25 Cacao and unwashed coffee exports in a proportion depending on world prices. 4.80 Washed coffee exports in a proportion depending on world prices. Note: The above rates for coffee and cacao need not be effective rates, since sales at these rates are varied in accord- ance with the world prices for these commodities. The special rates for coffee have not been applied in recent years and the special rate for cacao has not been applied since January 1954, as the international prices for these commodi- ties have been higher than the maxi- mum level below which the special rates would apply. Taxes of Bs 2 and Bs 1% per 46 kilograms are levied on exports of washed and unwashed coffee, respec- tively, when the foreign exchange pro- ceeds are converted at premium rates. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NONMEMBER COUNTRIES Argentina Irish Republic Liberia Libya New Zealand Portugal Saudi Arabia Spain Switzerland ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System The official rate of the Argentine Peso is M$N 18.00 = US$1. This rate applies also to settlements in agreement dollars with those coun- tries with which Argentina has bilateral agreements requiring payment in this way (see section on Prescription of Currency, below). Official rates are also published for French francs, Norwegian kroner, Portu- guese escudos, Swedish kroner, and pounds sterling. Most transactions take place at the official rate, but the proceeds of certain exports are subject to a levy of 10,15, 20, or 25 per cent, according to the nature of the commodity exported. There is also a free fluctuating exchange market for invisibles and capital, through which certain trade trans- actions, including the settlement of exports and imports of gold bars and coins, may be negotiated, certain of the imports being subject to a surcharge of M$N 20 per US$1. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Administration of Control The administration of exchange control is exercised by the Central Bank of Argentina in cooperation with the government trade authori- ties and through authorized banks and dealers. All transactions through the official market are controlled by the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Payments must be made or received in the manner prescribed in the exchange control regulations. These requirements are in accordance with the terms of Argentina's payments agreements with other coun- tries and monetary areas; payments with many countries1 must be settled through accounts maintained in "clearing" dollars, unless the transaction is eligible for the free market, but transactions with Uru- guay must be settled in "special account" dollars. All transactions with Peru and Switzerland and official market transactions with Spain must be settled in freely disposable U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments Imports listed as essential are paid for through the official market and require exchange licenses, which serve as authority both to import and to obtain the necessary exchange for payment. These licenses are 1 Austria, Belgium-Luxembourg, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Paraguay, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA granted according to the origin and the category of the imports. Indi- vidual import quotas are established for certain essential goods. Cer- tain other listed items, including gold bars and coins, may be imported by registered importers and paid for through the free market, without an exchange license; for a few of these the prior payment of a surcharge of M$N 20 per US$1 is required. Payments for Invisibles Payments abroad for commercial invisibles require licenses if they are to be effected at the official market rate. Otherwise, all payments for invisibles may be made freely through the free market. However, insurance for all imports must be made with domestic firms and paid in local currency. All payments to neighboring countries for freight may be made at the official market rate. Travelers may take out Argentine and foreign banknotes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Some exports are controlled in order to take into account the require- ments of the domestic market. Exchange proceeds of exports must be received in the appropriate currencies and surrendered. Exporters must receive the foreign exchange proceeds of their exports in the form of a payment order or an irrevocable letter of credit payable in Buenos Aires against shipping documents, at a time at least five working days after shipment. There are exceptions to these arrangements for ex- ports to a small group of countries. A percentage of the f.o.b. value of all export proceeds may be paid abroad as exporters7 commissions. Proceeds of listed exports must be surrendered at the official rate, but the proceeds of exports of the more important items are subject to the payment of a levy of 10, 15, 20, or 25 per cent, according to the nature of the goods. Proceeds of unlisted exports, including gold bars and coins, may be sold in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Travelers may bring in Argentine and foreign banknotes without limitation. Capital Exchange derived from incoming capital may be sold in the free market. Investments abroad by residents may be made through the free market without a license. 346 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Under Central Bank Circular No. 2324 of November 17, 1955, special facilities are given to foreign investors to import new machinery and any necessary raw materials, spare parts, etc. New incoming capi- tal and interest thereon may be repatriated freely through the free market. Earnings accruing on foreign investments since June 30, 1955 may also be transferred through the free market. The remittance abroad of foreign capital and income thereon existing in Argentina before that date continues to be subject to exchange control. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1955) (pesos per UJS. dollar) Buying 13.50 (Official Rate less 25% Levy) Exports of greasy wool, dry and salted hides, timber. Re-exports. 14.40 (Official Rate less 20% Levy) Exports of scoured wool. 15.30 (Official Rate less 15% Levy) Exports of meat, most dairy produce, combed wool and tops, etc. 16.20 (Official Rate less 10% Levy) Exports of grains, oilseeds, other farm products, yerba mate", etc. 18.00 (Official Rate) Exports of ores and other mining prod- ucts, tanned hides, yarns and threads, etc. 35.50 (approx.) (Free Market Rate) Proceeds of all other exports. Invisibles. Capital. Selling 18.00 (Official Rate) Imports of goods and commercial in- visibles entitled to the official rate. 36.50 (approx.) (Free Market Rate) Imports of goods permitted at the free rate. Income from foreign investments accruing since June 30, 1955. Other in- visibles. Capital. 56.50 (Free Market Rate plus M$N 20 Surcharge) Imports of motor bicycles and spares for motor vehicles and for industrial and other machinery. Changes during 1955 During the period January through September, numerous circulars were issued changing the exchange rates applied to payments for speci- fied imports and the proceeds of specified exports. 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA January 17 By Decree No. 637, holders of foreign capital invested in Argentine industry and mining before August 26, 1953 and fufilling the purposes of Law No. 14222 of that date were given the right to remit or capitalize up to 8 per cent of liquid profits beginning from that date. Previously, foreign capital that entered Argentina before the passing of Law No. 14222 could be remitted only to the extent of 5 per cent per year and there was no guarantee of exchange for its payment. July Travelers entering Argentina could not bring in more than M$N 20,000 in Argentine banknotes. Travelers leaving Argentina could not take out more than this amount or its equivalent in foreign bank- notes calculated at the free market rate. October 27 The exchange system was radically revised. A single official rate of M$N 18.00 per US$1 replaced the previous official rates of M$N 5.00 and M$N 7.50. Most financial remittances could be carried out freely at free market rates. The proceeds of certain exports were made subject to surcharges of 25, 20,15, or 10 per cent payable to the National Eco- nomic Recovery Fund. Certain imports could be paid for at the official rate and others through the free market, some of the latter being made subject to a surcharge of M$N 20 per US$1. All restrictions on the movement of foreign and domestic banknotes were removed. November 17 Central Bank Circular No. 2324 outlined the conditions under which foreign investment could be made in the form of imports of machinery, necessary raw materials, spare parts, etc. November 28 New regulations governing nonresident accounts were promulgated. Earnings of foreign-owned capital payable after June 30, 1955, all nonresident funds derived from operations effected after October 27, 1955, and all funds held by residents of Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay were completely freed. The various types of nonresident account related to other countries were reclassified as "accounts exist- ing at October 27, 1955." These accounts were made transferable to 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA other accounts of the same classification and were made available for purchasing securities on the Argentine stock exchange and for the ex- penses of the account holders in Argentina up to M$N 20,000 per month. December 6 The exchange proceeds of fresh fruit exports could be negotiated at the free market rate, instead of at the official rate, as previously. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRISH REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The Irish Pound is officially at par with the U.K. pound. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the comparable London quotations. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Department of Finance, whose permission is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area. Much of the authority for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import licenses, where necessary, normally are issued by the Depart- ment of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an industrial nature, or by the Department of Agriculture if the goods are agricultural in character. Import and export restrictions are administered by the Reve- nue Commissioners. Prescription of Currency The Irish Republic is one of the territories of the Sterling Area and payments to other parts of the Sterling Area may be made without formality. Payments for goods or services originating outside the Ster- ling Area may be made by paying (1) Irish pounds or sterling to a resi- dent of the United Kingdom; (2) dollars, Irish pounds, or sterling through a bank to the account of a resident of the American Account Area or Canada, for goods or services originating in those countries; or (3) non-dollar specified currencies,1 Irish pounds, or sterling through a bank to the account of a person resident outside the American Account Area or Canada, for goods or services originating outside those countries. The proceeds of exports to the American Account Area or Canada must be received in Irish pounds or sterling from the account of a resident of those countries, in Canadian dollars, or in U.S. dollars. The proceeds of exports to other countries outside the Sterling Area must be received in Irish pounds or sterling from the account of a resident out- side the Sterling Area, or in any specified currency.2 1 Non-dollar specified currencies are listed in the Irish regulations as Belgian francs, Congolese francs, kroner of Denmark and the Faroe Islands, deutsche marks, francs of the French Monetary Area, French Somali Coast (Djibouti) francs, Indo-Chinese piastres, Italian lire, Luxembourg francs, Netherlands, Nether- lands Antilles, and Surinam guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Specified currencies are those listed in footnote 1, together with Canadian dollars, Panamanian dollars, Philippine pesos, and U.S. dollars. 350 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRISH REPUBLIC Imports and Import Payments Certain goods are subject to import prohibitions and others, regard- less of the country of origin, are subject to quota restrictions on a global basis. Most goods, however, do not require individual import licenses. Whether or not an individual import license is required, permission must be obtained from the Department of Finance before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area. However, under a general exemption, residents may purchase freely certain items from the dollar area and almost all goods from outside the dollar area, pro- vided that the goods are to be delivered within nine months of the order and that payment will be made in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). For imports from the dol- lar area not subject to global quota restrictions, individual permission is at present granted automatically. Where exchange control authority, either general or individual, is held, the appropriate exchange or per- mission to credit a nonresident account is granted automatically. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to persons resident outside the Sterling Area require approval, but there is a general authority covering the costs of trans- port, handling, and insurance of Irish imports and exports. Other payments for invisible transactions are authorized freely, except that there are limitations on payments to the dollar area for tourism and for film rentals. There is a basic allowance of exchange for tourist travel in non-dollar countries of £100 per adult for 12 months. Not more than £10 in Irish or U.K. notes may be taken out of the country to a destina- tion outside the Sterling Area. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. Exporters of goods to outside the Sterling Area are required to obtain payment of the value of the goods in the manner prescribed in the regulations within six months of shipment. When payment is received in a specified currency (see footnote 2, above), the exchange must be sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if specified currencies are received they must be sold to 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRISH REPUBLIC an authorized bank. The import of U.K. banknotes through the post from outside the United Kingdom is prohibited. Travelers from the United Kingdom may bring in any amount of U.K. banknotes, but travelers from other countries may not bring in more than £10 in such notes. There are no limitations on the import of Irish banknotes, but if a large amount of such notes is carried, the traveler is liable to question- ing by the customs, in view of the ban on the export of notes beyond a limit of £10. Capital All transfers of capital to territories outside the Sterling Area require exchange control approval, which is given only in exceptional circum- stances to applications from Sterling Area residents. Incoming capital received in a specified currency must be sold to an authorized bank. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling Area in this way. Changes during 1955 March 21 The amount of Irish or U.K. notes which could be taken out of the Irish Republic to a destination outside the Sterling Area was increased from £5 to £10 per traveler. July 1 The Exchange Control Act 1954 came into force. The general ex- change control procedures were not changed, except that holders of foreign currency securities and bearer securities were no longer re- quired to deposit them with a bank. October 1 The Italian lira was added to the list of specified currencies, i.e., those which could be used for settlements with non-dollar, non-sterling countries. 352 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The Liberian Dollar is at parity with the U.S. dollar. U.S. currency is in circulation along with Liberian coinage in silver and copper. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items require prior licenses. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, except for precious metals and precious stones. The surrender of the proceeds from exports is not required and exchange receipts are freely disposable. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. There are, however, restrictions on the circulation of U.S. banknotes in denominations over $20. Capital No exchange control obligations are imposed on capital receipts or payments. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Exchange Rate System The Libyan Pound is officially at par with the pound sterling. Ex- change rates for other currencies are based on the London quotations. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is the authority which issues licenses for payments abroad. Import licenses are issued by the Departments of Trade in the three provinces of the United Kingdom of Libya, namely, Tripolitania, Cyrenaica, and the Fezzan. Prescription of Currency The United Kingdom of Libya, as one of the territories of the Sterling Area, conforms to the prescription of currency arrangements and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom (see section on Pre- scription of Currency in the survey on the United Kingdom). Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to license. Most commodities may be im- ported from EPU countries and their associated territories under open general license. Other imports are authorized according to a yearly program approved by the Government under a system of quotas and individual licenses directed toward restricting imports of luxuries in favor of essential requirements. The licensing policy is more liberal for imports from non-dollar countries than for imports from dollar coun- tries. Exchange is granted for all authorized imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require licenses. These are granted for expenses incidental to trade transactions, but for other purposes the issuance of licenses is subject to administrative decision. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, to ensure that the proceeds will be re- ceived in conformity with the prescription of currency requirements. All foreign exchange derived from exports must be surrendered. Goods imported against payment in dollars may not be re-exported. 354 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYA Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Capital Transfers of capital abroad require licenses; incoming capital must be surrendered. Transfers of profits and for the repatriation of capital normally are approved. Changes during 1955 No significant changes took place during 1955. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The official rates for the New Zealand Pound in terms of non-sterling currencies are based on the fixed rate for sterling-N.Z. pounds and the rate for the currency concerned in the London market, maintained be- tween the official limits. As at December 31, 1955, the trading banks' rates for telegraphic transfers on London were £NZ 100/7/6 buying, £NZ 101/-/- selling, per £100, and for U.S. dollars they were $2.7982 buying, $2.7665 selling, per £NZ 1. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is given to the Minister of Finance, who, in accordance with the terms of the regulations, has delegated it to the Reserve Bank of New Zealand; however, much of the routine super- vision is done by the trading (commercial) banks. Prescription of Currency New Zealand, as one of the territories of the Sterling Area, conforms to the prescription of currency arrangements and the payments system of the United Kingdom (see section on Prescription of Currency in the survey on the United Kingdom). Imports and Import Payments Most imports from "scheduled" countries,1 some imports from non- scheduled countries, and most imports of motor vehicles require import licenses. For permitted imports, exchange is made available in full. Payments for imports must be made in the manner prescribed in the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require the approval of the Reserve Bank. Payments to the Sterling Area are not restricted, except for travel allowances and a few minor items. An exchange allowance of £NZ 200 per adult per 12 months is granted for nonbusiness travel in non- sterling, non-dollar countries, and of £NZ 5 per day, with a maximum of 1 These countries are listed in the New Zealand regulations as follows: Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Japan, Korea, Liberia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippine Republic, United States, and Venezuela. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND £NZ 100, for nonbusiness travel in dollar countries. The remittance of profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents is permitted freely, subject to formal approval by the Reserve Bank. Other remit- tances to countries outside the Sterling Area are treated on their merits, strict scrutiny being given to remittances to hard currency areas. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department, provided that the transaction is being cleared through a trading bank through which the net export proceeds will be received in a manner conforming to the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above) and that the foreign exchange will be surrendered to the banking system. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts of non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered to the Reserve Bank; they may be sold to a trading bank in New Zealand, but they may not otherwise be sold or dealt in without permission. No con- trol is exercised over the disposal of Sterling Area currency receipts other than from exports. Capital Transactions in non-sterling securities owned by New Zealand resi- dents require the prior permission of the Reserve Bank. All outward capital remittances require prior approval. Capital receipts in non- Sterling Area currencies must be offered to or declared to the Reserve Bank. No control is exercised over the disposal of capital receipts by New Zealand residents in Sterling Area currencies. Changes during 1955 At various times in 1955 items were added to the list of goods exempt from import licensing if imported from nonscheduled countries. July 28 The Import Licensing Schedule for 1956 was announced. Certain of the relaxations it covered were to come into effect immediately (see July 29, below). 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND July 29 The list of items exempt from import licensing regardless of country of origin was increased by 41 items, making the total in this category approximately 150. The listed goods that could be imported without an import license from certain non-dollar countries could now also be imported without an import license from Albania, Argentina, Bulgaria, French Somali- land, East Germany, Hungary, Iran, Poland, Rumania, Tangier, and the U.S.S.R.; i.e., these territories were removed from the list of "sched- uled" countries. September 27 It was announced that licenses for 1956 imports of cars and com- mercial vehicles from all sources would be one-third less than 1955 licenses. October 29 Import licensing was reimposed on textile piece goods, including wool textiles, and on jams, jellies, marmalade, and preserves. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The parity of the Portuguese Escudo in terms of the U.S. dollar is Esc 28.75215 — US$1. The official rates are Esc 28.60 buying, Esc 28.95 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates are uniform. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and Portuguese overseas territories 1 constitute a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Monetary Area. The ex- change control regulations of Portugal are applied almost uniformly throughout the Portuguese Monetary Area, and current payments be- tween its various territories are freely effected through controlled accounts. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of commercial banks author- ized for this purpose. Trade control policy is the responsibility of the Commission of Economic Coordination in the Ministry of Economy and of the Council of Ministers; a Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy administers trade controls. Import and export licenses are issued by the Department for Licensing Foreign Trade, operating within the Directorate-General's office. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the provisions of bilateral trade and payments agreements or determined on the basis of the country of origin or the destination of the goods and services involved. Any deviation f rom the general regulations in this matter requires the approval of the Bank of Portugal. Imports and Import Payments All imports are subject to registration, mainly in order to enforce the prescription of currency regulations. The presentation of the registra- 1 The Azores, Madeira, the Cape Verde Islands, Portuguese Guinea, Sao Joao Baptista de Adjuda, the Islands of Sao Tome and Principe, Angola, Mozambique, Portuguese Indies (Goa, Damao, Diu), Macao, and Portuguese Timor. 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL tion form to the customs enables the import to be cleared. Some imports from EPU countries and their overseas territories, imports from other than EPU countries payable in a currency of any EPU country, and most imports from other countries require individual licenses, which are issued with the registration forms. For certain listed goods from the dollar area, import licenses are issued automatically. Most goods valued at less than Esc 2,500 may be imported freely from EPU coun- tries, their associated territories, and Spain. Appropriate exchange is granted automatically for authorized imports. Payments for Invisibles All payments on account of invisibles that are made in foreign cur- rency or by crediting a nonresident account, and that exceed Esc 2,500, require individual licenses. For lesser amounts, such payments are made if the applicant undertakes to supply documentary evidence of the obligation, should proof be required later. Payments to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are permitted freely within the terms of the related agreements. Payments in favor of resi- dents of any EPU country are permitted freely, without any limitation on the amount, on account of costs incidental to exports and imports, and up to Esc 100,000 on account of various other categories of cur- rent payments. Travelers may take out any amount in Portuguese and foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to registration, mainly in order to secure the enforcement of the prescription of currency and surrender regulations. Certain exports to any country and all exports to other than EPU countries payable in an EPU currency are subject to individual license. Export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Payments from residents of EPU countries may be received freely by Portuguese residents on account of costs incidental to exports and imports, without any limitation on the amount, and on account of a variety of other categories of invisibles, up to Esc 100,000. The indi- vidual permit of the Bank of Portugal is required in all other cases. Exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount in Portuguese and foreign banknotes. 360 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Capital Transfers of capital to countries with which Portugal has payments agreements are permitted freely within the terms of the related agree- ments. Other capital transfers require specific approval. Exchange receipts from capital transactions must be surrendered. Changes during 1955 March 12 Application of the provisions of Decree No. 38659 of February 26, 1952, requiring the blocking of a percentage of the proceeds of certain exports to EPU countries, was limited to a few export items and then only to the amounts exceeding certain quotas. July 16 Application of the provisions of Decree No. 38659 of February 26, 1952, requiring the blocking of a percentage of the proceeds of certain exports to EPU countries, was suspended entirely. August 6 A list was published of 110 commodities for which import licenses permitting imports from the dollar area would be granted freely. On the basis of dollar imports in 1953, the liberalization percentage was around 53. 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Rate System The official government selling rate through the Saudi Arabian Mone- tary Agency is Saudi Riyals 3, qurush 16%, per US$1.1 The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency fixes the value of the riyal in relation to foreign currencies and aids the Ministry of Finance in centralizing the receipts and expenditures of the Government. The commercial banks' selling rate ranges from SR 3/16% to SR 3/17 per US$1. Open market buying is small and occasional. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions, except that, if exchange is purchased from the Monetary Agency, only 5 per cent may be used by banks for purposes other than financing imports. Saudi Arabia is a signatory to the Arab League Payments and Customs Agreements. Prescription of Currency There are no obligations imposed on importers, exporters, or other residents prescribing the method or currency for payments to or from persons resident abroad. Imports and Import Payments There is no general system of import control. Imports are generally free of restriction, although a few products require prior licenses from the Ministry of Commerce. Imports of gold or of foreign notes and coin are subject to prior license by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. Imports of Saudi Arabian silver or gold coin are prohibited except for small amounts of silver coin in border traffic. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds f rom exports is not required and ex- change receipts are freely disposable. Exports are generally free of restriction, but the re-export of imported goods is prohibited. Exports of gold or of foreign notes and coin are subject to prior license by the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency. Exports of Saudi Arabian silver or gold coin are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on receipts or payments for invisibles. For conditions governing the export or import of currencies, gold, and silver, 1 The riyal is divided into 22 qurush. 362 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA see the sections on Imports and Import Payments, and Exports and Export Proceeds, above. Capital No exchange control obligations are imposed on capital receipts or payments. There is, however, a Royal Decree that prohibits the export of capital and requires the repatriation of capital already abroad. Changes during 1955 May A Royal Decree forbade the export of capital and required the repa- triation of capital already abroad. This decree has been implemented by a ruling that banks may use only 5 per cent of any exchange purchased from the Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency for purposes other than financing imports. 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The official basic rates for the Spanish Peseta are Pts 10.95 buying, Pts 11.22 selling,1 per US$1. The use of these rates is limited to govern- ment transactions; a system of multiple exchange rates applies to com- mercial and private transactions. There is an official buying rate of Pts 21.90 per US$1 and three official selling rates, Pts 16.425, Pts 21.90, and Pts 25.00, per US$1. Other effective rates arise from combining cer- tain percentages at one of these rates with the balance at a "free" official market rate, currently Pts 38.95 per US$1 (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). This rate has remained stable since September 1953. Only authorized banks are permitted to operate on the "free" market, acting as intermediaries between buyers (who must have permits from the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute) and sellers of specified cur- rencies.2 As the demand for and the supply of "free" currencies are sub- ject to the control exercised by the authorities over exchange trans- actions, the formation of "free" market rates is affected by the decisions of the Spanish trade and exchange control authorities and the inter- vention of the latter in the exchange market. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, the Spanish Zone of Morocco, and the Spanish colonies constitute a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Commerce, and the Spanish Foreign Exchange 1 Pts 10.95 plus Pts 0.27 (banking commission of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute). 2 The currencies dealt in on the "free" market are as follows: Algerian francs, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Belgian Congo francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, French francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Moroccan francs, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and ILS. dollars; Egyptian pounds, Portuguese escudos, and Swiss francs in agreement accounts; pounds sterling in the "Iceland" account; TJ.S. dol- lars of account with Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Finland, Greece, Italy, Mexico, Paraguay, and Turkey; and banknotes in Brazilian cruzeiros, Colombian pesos, deutsche marks, Peruvian soles, Uruguayan pesos, and Venezuelan bolivares. Deutsche mark checks, if marked "negotiable in Spain," are also dealt in on the "free" market. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Institute; on a technical administrative level, by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, the General Department of Commerce and Tariff Policy in the Ministry of Commerce, and authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles are effected in the currency and in the manner prescribed in the pro- visions of bilateral trade and payments agreements,8 or determined on the basis of the country of origin or destination of the goods and serv- ices involved. The prescription of currency requirements are operated through a system of individual licensing, to which all categories of exchange payments are subject. Imports and Import Payments All imports require import and exchange licenses, which are issued in combined form by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute after con- sultation with the General Department of Commerce and Tariff Policy. Foreign exchange is made available for authorized imports through official allocations or the "free" market mechanism. Subject to the approval of the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, nonresidents may import essential materials and use the proceeds accruing from their sale for specifically determined expenses and investments in Spain. Specific industries grouped on a national or regional basis are permitted to make imports needed for production of their export goods out of their own retained exchange (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Payments for Invisibles All transfers abroad and payments by residents in favor of nonresi- dents on account of invisibles are subject to individual license. Prac- tically all of them are effected at the "free" market rate. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a maximum of Pts 2,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are subject to individual licenses issued by the General Department of Commerce and Tariff Policy. This requirement is estab- 3 Spain has bilateral payments arrangements with Belgium-Luxembourg, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Norway, Paraguay, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United Kingdom, and Uruguay. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN lished mainly in order to determine the exchange rate applicable to the proceeds, and to enforce currency prescription and surrender regula- tions. Proceeds accruing from exports must be surrendered to author- ized banks or sold through them on the "free" exchange market. How- ever, in accordance with the arrangements called "Special Operations," specific industries grouped on a national or regional basis are permitted to retain a percentage of their export proceeds to be used to pay for imported raw materials or other goods needed by them for their own production; in certain cases, special rates for specified exports are determined. There are altogether 12 "Special Operations" arrange- ments in existence, 7 of which have a regional applicability. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds from invisibles must be sold on the "free" market if received in currencies dealt in on that market, or surrendered to authorized banks if received in other currencies. The "free" market rates are applicable to the purchase of proceeds accruing from prac- tically all categories of invisibles. Persons may bring in a maximum of Pts 10,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital All outward capital transfers are subject to individual approval. All inward and outward private capital transfers must be effected at the "free" market rates. Special facilities are accorded to investments effected in Spain by nonresidents through the importation of essential goods (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31,1955) (pesetas per U.S. dollar) 11.22 Selling (Official Basic Rate plus Com- mission) Government payments, including im- ports of rationed foodstuffs. 16.425 Imports in Group A: coal and coke. 21.90 Imports of eggs. Buying (Official Basic Rate) 10.95 21.90 (Special Export Rate) Exports not listed in Groups 1-5. 23.605 (90% at Pts 21J90 and 10% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 1: fresh fish, fruit trees, livestock, etc. 366 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Table of Exchange Rates (continued) (pesetas per C/jS. dollar) Buying Selling SPAIN 25.00 Imports in Group E: liquid fuels. 25.217 Imports of mechanic paste and news- papers. 25.435 (60% at Pts 16.425 and 40% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group B: phosphates. 28.72 (60% at Pts 21J90 and 40% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group C: seed potatoes. 32.13 (40% at Pts 2130 and 60% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Imports in Group D: aluminum, alumi- num oxide, bauxite, fertilizers, fibers, iron scrap, metallic ores. 38.95 ("Free" Official Market Rate) All other imports. Authorized invisibles and capital. 27.015 (70% at Pts 2130 and 80% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 2: almond oil, ancho- vies in brine, frozen fish, olives, apricots, etc. 30.425 (50% at Pts 21J90 and 60% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 3: aniseed, capers, clays and silicates, cocoa, cork manu- factures, fresh and dried fruits, marble, canned meat, raw skins, tobacco prod- ucts, fresh vegetables, etc. 33.835 (80% at Pts 21.90 and 70% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 4: anchovies in oil, cocoa butter, fruit juices, liqueurs and brandies, essential oils, vinegar, wine, etc. 37.245 (10% at Pts 21J90 and 90% at "Free" Official Market Rate) Exports in Group 5: books, ceramics, chemicals, fresh flowers, paints, var- nishes, perfumes, textiles, wolfram, etc. 38.95 ("Free" Official Market Rate) Invisibles. Capital. Note: The above rates apply to ex- change receipts in the specified cur- rencies. Changes during 1955 July 18 Austrian schillings were quoted on the "free" market. 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Exchange Rate System The gold content of the Swiss Franc is established at 63/310 (— 0.20322 . . .) grams of fine gold. The Swiss National Bank maintains the U.S. dollar rate in a free market between limits of Sw F 4.285 buying, and Sw F 4.46 selling, per US$1. The rate on December 31, 1955 was Sw F 4.285 per US$1. Ex- change is controlled in respect of countries with which Switzerland has bilateral agreements or in respect of which Switzerland has enacted autonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Switzerland's trade and/or payments with 22 countries or monetary areas,1 and Switzerland controls its payments with 4 others.2 In accordance with the provisions of several of these payments agreements, official rates are applied to transactions covered by the agreements. This domain of regulated settlements is known as the sector of controlled payments. All settlements outside this sector (including those with all other coun- tries) may be made freely at free market rates. Switzerland participates with Belgium, Denmark, France, the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and the United Kingdom in a multilateral foreign exchange arbitrage arrangement, under which authorized banks in these territories may conclude spot transactions, and forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, with other authorized banks in any of these terri- tories. The spot exchange rates fluctuate between the official limits agreed by the exchange authorities of the countries concerned, while the forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. A fee of % of 1 per cent is charged on payments through the sector of controlled payments, and in addition there is a fee of % of 1 per cent on payments with other EPU countries to cover Swiss expenses resulting from membership in the EPU. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of import, export, and payments control, the Princi- pality of Liechtenstein is included in the Swiss customs territory for 1 These are listed as Argentina, Austria, Belgian Monetary Area, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, French Monetary Area, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Poland, Rumania, Spanish Monetary Area, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom and other territories of the Sterling Area, and Yugoslavia. 2 These are East Germany, Iran, Portuguese Monetary Area, and Uruguay. 368 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND the duration of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Principality of Liechtenstein concerning the union of the Princi- pality of Liechtenstein with the Swiss customs territory. Administration of Control The authority to impose measures for the control of imports, exports, and payments is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Public Economy or the Federal Political Department. The Swiss National Bank is the execu- tive authority in matters of currency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together with the authorized banks, is entrusted with the opera- tive part of payments control. Prescription of Currency The currency and manner of settlement on account of merchandise transactions and invisibles in the sector of controlled payments are pre- scribed in accordance with the provisions of the relevant payments agreements and/or by the Swiss regulations. In all other cases, settle- ments are not subject to regulations involving prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts established and operated in accordance with bilateral agreements are controlled, but other nonresident accounts are free of control. Imports and Import Payments Certain goods are admitted into Switzerland on the basis of import licenses only; but in accordance with Switzerland's present liberal im- port policy, licenses are, generally speaking, granted without quantita- tive limitation. However, quotas are established for certain agricultural products and, in the category of industrial products, for heavy motor vehicles and agricultural tractors. Imports from EPU countries are liberalized in accordance with the OEEC code of liberalization. Settlements are effected automatically for authorized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports from all other countries may be made freely through the free market. 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely insofar as the applica- tion of bilateral agreements does not necessitate control over such pay- ments. The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Exports and Export Proceeds The export (including re-export) of many goods is subject to export control through individual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in part with the assistance of appropriate trade organizations. In dealing with applications to export to countries with which Switzer- land has payments agreements, the availability of sufficient funds under the relevant agreement is taken into consideration. Proceeds accruing from exports to controlled payment countries are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export pro- ceeds are freely disposable. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles originating in controlled payment countries are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regulations. The encashment of travelers' credit documents issued in countries in the sector of controlled payments is limited to Sw F 1,500 per person per month. Proceeds from other countries are freely disposable. The im- port of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital to or from countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are effected through the sector of con- trolled payments; however, transfers to such countries of capital not exceeding Sw F 500,000 do not require licenses. Transfers of capital to or from other countries may be effected freely. Banknotes Foreign banknotes are negotiated freely in Switzerland at rates determined by the interplay of supply and demand. 370 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND Changes during 1955 August 22 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for spot transactions, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. December 5 Italian lire and Italian authorized banks were included, for forward transactions for up to three months' delivery, in the multilateral exchange arbitrage arrangements in operation among most Western European countries. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 