 T W E N T Y - F I R ST A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1 9 70 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IN T E RNA T IONAL MONETARY FUND TW E N T Y - F I R ST A N N U AL R E P O RT ON E X C H A N GE R E S T R I C T I O NS 1970 Washington, D. C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Letter of Transmittal to Members and Governors of the Fund May 7, 1970 Dear Sir: I have the honor to transmit to you a copy of the International Monetary Fund's Twenty-First Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, which has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Article XIV, Section 4, of the Articles of Agreement. On behalf of the Executive Board, I should like to express our appreciation of the cooperation of the countries in the preparation of the second part of the Report. Sincerely yours, /s/ PIERRE-PAUL SCHWEITZER Chairman of the Executive Board and Managing Director ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PART I in Restrictive I. In troduc t ion II. Ma in Developments Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions . . .. Mu l t ip le Currency Practices Import Surcharges, Import Deposits, and Measures to Stimulate Exports . Bilateral Payments Arrangemen ts . . .. Measures A f fec t ing Capital Gold III. Regional Arrangements PART II Explanatory Note to Country Surveys Country Surveys A fghan is tan Algeria Argentina Aus tra l ia Austria Belgium-Luxembourg Bolivia Botswana Brazil Burma Bu rundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Central A f r ican Republic Ceylon Chad Chile China, Republic of Colombia Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of the Costa Rica Cyprus Dahomey Denmark Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Ethiopia Finland France CONTENTS Page Gabon The Gamb ia Germany, Federal Republic of Ghana Greece Gua tema la Guinea Guyana Haiti Honduras Hong Kong Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Israel Italy Ivory Coast Jamaica Japan Jordan Kenya Korea Kuwa it Laos Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libyan Arab Republic Malagasy Republic Malawi Malaysia Mali Malta Mauritania Maur i t ius Mexico Morocco Nepal Netherlands Netherlands Antilles New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Norway Pakistan 1 2 2 3 4 5 6 9 9 15 19 22 28 33 36 41 47 50 51 63 65 68 73 79 81 87 93 99 105 111 119 122 128 131 134 141 147 150 155 159 161 163 168 vu Page 181 186 188 194 200 206 209 212 215 217 219 223 227 235 242 247 250 253 258 266 272 277 283 286 292 298 301 304 306 307 308 312 317 321 325 329 332 339 342 344 349 352 357 359 365 368 375 380 384 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Panama Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Rwanda Saudi Arabia Senegal Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia South Afr ica Southern Yemen Spain Sudan Surinam Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syrian Arab Republic CONTENTS Page 392 394 397 401 410 415 417 418 425 428 432 436 443 444 449 453 455 456 462 465 Tanzania Tha i land Togo Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Turkey Uganda United A rab Republic United Kingdom United States Upper Volta U ruguay Venezuela Viet-Nam Yugoslavia Zambia Analytical Appendix Page 470 475 478 484 490 496 503 508 514 526 535 541 546 548 554 562 567 viii ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT I ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution I. Introduction 1 The year 1969 witnessed some major develop- ments in the international monetary system and a continued rapid expansion in world trade of about 13-14 per cent compared with about 12 per cent in 1968. For the industrial countries as a group, both exports and imports rose by 15 per cent, while for primary producing countries the increase in trade was about 10 per cent. The pressures on the international monetary system that had persisted in both 1967 and 1968 eased with the readjustment of two major currencies, in conjunction with signs of improvements in certain other important trading countries. France deval- ued its currency on August 10, and followed this action by additional fiscal and monetary measures designed to redress its balance of payments. Ger- many announced that, with effect from Septem- ber 30, it would not ensure that the rates for exchange transactions involving the deutsche mark would be confined to the limits hitherto observed; it revalued the deutsche mark on Octo- ber 26 (October 27, Central European Time). Throughout the year the United States continued to apply corrective measures to contain inflation- ary pressures, and in the United Kingdom the economy responded favorably to the stabilization program, and the balance of payments moved into substantial surplus. Altogether, the above developments resulted in a substantial reduction in the last quarter of 1969 in the intensity of speculative capital movements and a lessening of pressures on the free gold mar- kets. The average monthly price of gold on the London market, which had ranged from US$40.5 to US$43.5 a fine ounce during the first ten months of 1969, dropped to US$37.4 in Novem- ber and continued to decline in December to near the official U.S. price of $35 a fine ounce for dealings among monetary authorities. In addition, developing countries as a group were able to increase their international reserves, thus fur ther strengthening the international monetary system. For the fu tu re, the activation of special drawing rights (SDK's), at the beginning of 1970, should 1The period under review in this Report covers 1969 and the early part of 1970. make an important contribution to the sound growth of world trade and payments, not only by contributing to the expansion of world reserves to meet global liquidity needs but also by facilitating the liberalization of restrictions on payments for current international transactions. Prior to the establishment of new par values for the French franc and the deutsche mark, the trend toward influencing capital movements, which had received impetus in 1968, was contin- ued, with Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and the United States introducing or adapting a variety of measures to limit the for- eign operations of commercial banks and to mod- erate capital flows. A f ter a new par value was established for the deutsche mark, Germany elim- inated existing m in imum reserve requirements on additions to foreign deposits held by commercial banks, and capital controls were also eased in the Netherlands late in the year. Apart from the réin- troduction of a "security dollar," France made little fur ther change in its capital control regime following the establishment of a new par value. In the United States, Euro-dollar transactions were made subject to some regulation, but relatively minor measures to relax controls on direct invest- ment were introduced on several occasions during 1969. With growing international reserves, Japan slightly eased various capital controls. On the other hand, Italy introduced measures to prevent unauthorized capital outflows at various times in the period under review; it tightened regulations affecting the extension of credit abroad and, after the par value changes by France and Germany, took steps to reduce leads and lags associated with import and export transactions. Although restrictions on current payments con- tinued to receive less emphasis than capital con- trols, there was no general trend. Where meas- ures affecting current transactions were taken, they frequently related to trade rather than to the making of current payments. On balance, the use of import surcharges and import deposit schemes increased fur ther. Several developing countries either introduced new surcharges or raised the rates of existing ones. Similarly, a number of countries introduced import deposits, raised the 1 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS rates of those be ing applied, or extended the du ra t ion of ex is t ing schemes: El Salvador rein- troduced and Israel and Spain both introduced advance impo rt deposit schemes, while Greece and, w i th some reduction in the applicable rate, the Un i ted K ingdom, extended the l i fe of ex is t ing schemes. On the other hand, Chile reduced its reliance on advance deposits significantly. With regard to other exchange practices, devel- opments have been mixed. Impor tant actions taken regarding mu l t ip le currency practices included the creation of a free ma rket in the Phil- ippines and the u n i f i c a t i on of the d u al exchange market in Costa Rica. During the period under review there was a con t inu ing reduction in the numb er of opera t ive b i la teral paymen ts agree- ments between Fund members. The ex tent of control over exchange for travel expend i ture, partly to p revent unau thor ized capital t rans fe rs, rema ined subs tan t ia l ly unchanged; of the two indus t r ial Article V I II countries that had in recent years in troduced restrictions on travel allowances, the Un i ted Kingdom abolished these measures while France ma in ta ined them. Measures to promote exports received f u r t h er emphasis, and there was an increase in the number of countries mak ing use of such meas- ures; the devices applied included tax rebates, interest rate subsidies, and special credit insur- ance schemes. In certain cases, special institutions for promoting exports were established. Four countries —Cambodia, Equatorial Gu inea, Swaziland, and Southern Yemen —became mem- bers of the Fund in 1969, raising the total mem- bership to 115 countries as at the end of the year. Of this total, 34 countries have assumed the obligations of Article V I I I, and in 1969 these countries accounted for about three fourths of world trade. No additional member countries accepted these obligations during the period under review. This Report, and in particular the following sections, centers on exchange restrictions, but it also covers other measures and intergovernmental arrangements that may have direct balance of payments implications. 2 II. Main Developments in Restrictive Practices Trade and Payments Restrictions A l though the s tra ins and stresses to which the in terna t ional mone tary system was subject tended to ease in the last quarter of 1969, during the period under review there were no substantial changes in the restrictions ma in ta ined on imports and cu r rent paymen ts by the indus t r ial countries as a group. The pressures for voluntary restraints on exports of such commodities as textiles, steel, and meat con t inued. Market access for temperate zone ag r icu l tu ral products rema ins an unsolved problem. In many Western European countries the process of gradual liberalization of imports f rom Japan and from countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance (CMEA) was car- ried fo rwa rd. Germany, after the revaluation of the deutsche ma rk, rescinded the ad jus tmen ts in value-added tax that had aimed at encouraging imports and discouraging exports. Outside the group of major indus tr ial coun- tries, import liberalization of some importance took place in Chile, Indonesia, Israel, Morocco, and New Zealand. Chile substantially reduced the number of goods subject to advance deposit requirements and Morocco freed a large number of goods from quan t i ta t ive restrictions. South Africa ceased to invoke Article XII of the Gen- eral Agreement on Tar iffs and Trade (GATT ). Turkey, however, severely restrained imports. Imports were also heavily restricted by a variety of means in the Philippines, mainly by l im i ta t ions on the opening of import letters of credit, but early in 1970, a f ter the creation of a free market in which the peso depreciated, most of these restrictions were l i f ted. Import liberalization was of ten accompanied by the application of alterna- tive measures tending to reduce effective import demand, such as advance deposits, import sur- charges, and increases in customs duties and other indirect taxes. Israel and Spain introduced advance deposit schemes, and the United King- dom, while twice reducing the rate of deposit required, continued its import deposit scheme for a year. The trend toward state trad ing continued in some developing countries, more on the import side than on the export side. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MA IN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES Payments arrears in respect of imports or invisibles still exist in a number of member coun- tries, inc lud ing Ghana, Ha i t i, Nigeria, and Para- guay. Certain Article VIII countries have in recent years received temporary approvals allowing them to introduce specified restrictions on paymen ts and transfers in respect of current in terna t ional transactions. The United Kingdom recently abol- ished its restriction on travel allowances. Costa Rica, when un i fy ing its exchange rate s t ruc tu re, abolished its exchange restrictions. Japan abol- ished the res tr ic t ion on travel exchange, which was the last of the two restrictions on current paymen ts th at it had ma in ta ined when a s sum ing the obligations of Article VIII. This meant that the au tho r i t ies approved bona fide applications for any am o u nt of travel exchange. Subsequen t ly, Japan also increased the basic travel allowance that banks may make available w i thout consu l t ing the Bank of Japan. Several Article XIV countries decided to cut back travel expend i tures by a reduction in exchange allocations, an increase in travel or ex it tax, or a depreciation of the appli- cable exchange rate. These included Israel and Viet-Nam. Colombia, however, reduced the guar- antee deposit requ iremen ts for tourist travel and a number of countries increased allocations for such trave l. The Ph i l ipp ines introduced add i t ional restrictions on travel expend i tures and var ious other invisibles when its balance of payments came under severe pressure, but most of these restrictions were subsequently l i f ted. Fund members have made fu r th er progress with the te rm ina t ion of their b i la teral paymen ts agree- ments. Countries te rm ina t ing one or more such agreements w i th other member countries included China, Indonesia, Israel, the Philippines, Spain, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. Aus tr ia reached prelimi- nary agreement with the U.S.S.R. to terminate their clearing arrangement in the near fu tu re. Multiple Currency Practices Multiple currency practices continue to be employed by some 30 member countries. Cam- bodia devalued its currency prior to jo in ing the Fund at the end of 1969 and in so doing elimi- nated its broken cross rate for the French f ranc. Costa Rica reunified its dual rate structure at the level of the previous official rate. Peru reduced its reliance on mu l t ip le currency practices when an exchange tax th at had been applied on most import paymen ts was replaced by a customs du ty surcharge. Indonesia merged its two exchange marke ts and took cer ta in fu r ther measures as part of a major exchange reform. The Philippines introduced temporarily a mu l t ip le currency prac- tice w i th the establishment of a fluctuating free market by prescribing the surrender at the par va lue of a specified portion of the proceeds from major exports. In a number of member countries, existing multiple currency practices proliferated or the spread between effective rates widened. Ceylon f u r t h er increased the domestic price of exchange certificates and extended the coverage of the cer- t if ica te ma rket to include most public sector imports. Chile increased the exchange tax applied to cer ta in paymen ts channeled through the bro- kers' ma rket and introduced another tax on all paymen ts th rough that market. Prior to the exchange reform, the overprice system in Indone- sia became still more complex and the overprice ratios were gradua l ly raised for most commodi- ties. Pak is tan extended its bonus system to addi- tional categories of foreign exchange earnings and, through th is system, fu r th er raised the effec- tive cost of imports. Paraguay increased the small tax levied on all foreign exchange transactions. Turkey introduced a new effective buy ing rate by und e r t ak ing payment of a prem ium on purchases of conver t ib le currency acquired by residents in respect of air or road transport. The United Arab Republic permitted certain holders of convertible currency to sell foreign exchange to residents for specified paymen ts at freely negotiated rates. The use of cost restrictions on travel has con- t inued; in some countries these have involved an add i t ional effec t ive exchange rate, as, for exam- ple, in Chile, Colombia, Iraq, and Turkey. Du r ing 1969, Colombia reduced the prior deposit requirement which is applied to the sale of for- eign exchange for travel abroad to ensure that the transaction is a bona fide one intended for travel purposes only. In Chile, the effective cost of travel exchange rose as a result of the fu r ther depreciation of the brokers' market rate and an increase in taxation on exchange purchases in that market. Iraq extended the coverage of its 3 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS exchange tax by w i thdraw ing certain exemptions previously granted on sales of foreign exchange to persons leaving Iraq, and Bolivia raised its travel tax. The p rem iums over the par va lue that are paid in the inves tment currency market in the United Kingdom and in the Belgian free ma rket both fluctuated widely du r ing the period under review. The former moved between 17 per cent and 60 per cent, w i th recently a downward t rend to the 25-30 per cent range, and the latter exceeded 10 per cent in May and August (but in each case for only one day) prior to the Ge rman revalua- tion, but has since become negligible. France rein- troduced a "security currency" by crea t ing a market for dealings between residents in exchange proceeds a r is ing from sales abroad of ce r ta in securities. The p rem ium over the off ic ial ma rket rate went up to some 15 per cent prior to the reva lua t ion of the deutsche ma rk but has since come down to less than 10 per cent. Import Surcharges, Import Deposits, and Measures to Stimulate Exports There has been a f u r t h er increase in the numb er of countries employing import sur- charges, advance impo rt deposits, and similar devices aimed at increasing the cost of imports. Import surcharges on certain categories of com- modities were introduced by Ghana, Gu inea, and Honduras, a l though the 1 per cent license fee levied by Ghana on the c.i.f. va lue of imports was abolished. Guy ana imposed a 3 per cent defense levy on all imports other than those cur- ren t ly exempt f rom customs du ty. Malawi intro- duced a customs surcharge. The Un i ted A rab Republic introduced a development tax of 10 per cent —5 per cent for certain essential imports —of the c.i.f. value of imports, but reduced the "sta- tistical tax" on imports from 10 per cent to 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value. The Sudan raised its import surcharge f rom 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value to 15 per cent. The stamp tax levied on most imports into Greece was raised from a range of 1 to 2 per cent to one of 2 to 5 per cent. Ecuador's stabilization surcharge was raised. The rates of specific taxes on imports into Uru- guay were doubled, but at the same time certain import surcharges were reduced. Many modifica- tions in austerity and equalization taxes occurred 4 in Viet-Nam, resulting over the period in a con- siderable increase in the effective cost of imports. Measures to reduce the cost of imports included the lowering of equalization levies in Austria, fol- lowing the reva lua t ion of the deutsche ma rk, and the action taken in Indonesia to allow the pay- ment of du t ies, surcharges, or import levies on imports of essential goods to be postponed under certain conditions for upward of two months; in Ap r il 1969 the requirement for the prepayment of import du t ies on category B and C imports had a l ready been abolished. Spain introduced a scheme, which is to rema in in operation un t il December 31, 1970, requiring impor ters to lodge w i th the Bank of Spain a local currency deposit equal to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue of impor ts prior to app ly ing for an import license. El Salvador reintroduced advance deposit requ i remen ts consisting of local currency deposits of 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value of certain imports. Israel has introduced an import deposit scheme for less essential imports under which importers are required to deposit with customs 50 per cent of the value of imports on which the customs du ty is 30 per cent or more. The depos- its w i ll be transferred to the Bank of Israel and frozen for six months. Advance deposit rates were raised in Ecuador, Turkey, and Viet-Nam. In Turkey, one fou r th of the guaran tee deposit received by the Central Bank was to be made available to assist export financing. In Korea, the rates of advance deposits were increased for cer- ta in categories of commodities, but were reduced or abolished for others. In Paraguay, the Central Bank prohibited authorized banks from accepting financing for advance import deposits from for- eign banks. In the United Kingdom, the import deposit scheme was extended for a fu r ther 12 months, to December 5, 1970, but the rate of deposit was reduced first from 50 per cent to 40 per cent and then to 30 per cent of the va lue of the goods, payable at the time of entry into customs. Greece extended the operation of advance deposits on imported passenger cars to March 2, 1970. In Chile and China the import deposit rates were lowered sharply, and they were eliminated in Ethiopia and Somalia. In Colombia, the fur- ther shifting of some commodities to groups sub- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES ject to a lower rate of deposit reduced the impact of the advance deposit requirement. In Japan the deposit requirement for imports of consumer goods was lowered from 5 per cent to 1 per cent, bringing it into line with the requirement for all other commodities. Selective reductions in deposit rates were introduced in Argentina and Uruguay. With the introduction of an exchange reform early in 1970, the Philippines abolished an exist- ing requirement of advance import deposits. In both industrial and developing countries there has been a fu r ther elaboration of arrange- ments designed to encourage exports, u su a l ly focusing on nonagricultural commodities —mainly capital goods in the industrial countries and non- traditional exports in the developing coun tr ies. Export promotion arrangements have generally tended to become more ambitious, involving, among other things, tax rebates, interest rate sub- sidies, credit insurance schemes, and the estab- lishment of special institutions for export promo- tion. Several indus tr ial nations have again raised the over-all ceilings on export credit insurance and provided coverage for additional types of transactions or risks or for exports to additional countries. A new export financing procedure was intro- duced in Germany, whereby banks could directly purchase from exporters government-guaranteed medium-term and long-term suppliers' credit claims on developing countries. A special guaran- tee fund was established for this purpose. The Swiss ordinance implementing the federal law on export risk guarantees was revised and the range of operations eligible for such insurance was wid- ened. The Export-Import Bank of the United States began to guarantee foreign banks' loans that would finance U.S. exports, in addition to guaranteeing the loans being made to foreign financial institutions for relending to local buyers of U.S. equipment. The Export-Import Bank also announced that it was prepared to make advance commitments on export insurance and guarantees for U.S. firms bidding on capital projects abroad, as well as to finance the export of U.S. engineer- ing and planning services. In the United King- dom, the Bank of England agreed to refinance fixed-rate export and shipbuilding credits when that part of a bank's fixed-rate lending not eligi- ble for inclusion in liquid assets exceeded 5 per cent of its gross deposits. Against this general trend, Belgium discontin- ued the preferential discount rate for export bills and selectively reduced the turnover tax rebates granted to certain exporters. In France, in early 1969, the temporary export subsidy on exports of most goods other than agricultural commodities and fuel was abolished, and the facilities of the "economic risk" insurance procedure, covering exporters against abnormal increases in their costs, were reduced to their pre-June 1968 levels. Furthermore, the French preferential rediscount rate for short-term export credits was abolished on August 11, 1969, while that for medium-term credits was eliminated on February 19, 1970 in respect of sales to countries of the European Economic Community (EEC) but was contin- ued for sales to non-EEC countries. In Japan, the Bank of Japan decided to raise its interest rates on export finance by about 1 per cent per annum effective May 1970, in order to mod ify the exist- ing preferential treatment of export financing. Bilateral Payments Arrangements Further progress has been made in terminating bilateral payments agreements between member countries. Du r ing 1969 and early 1970 eight such agreements were terminated against two agree- ments contracted. Of some 55 agreements still in operation between member countries, none involve any of the major trading nations. During the same period, six payments agreements with nonmembers were terminated and the termination of three more was decided upon, while four agreements were added. At the end of 1969, some 60 member countries maintained bilateral payments agreements; of these, 12 countries maintained agreements with other members only, 32 with members and nonmembers, and 14 with nonmembers only. Some of the agreements were inoperative. Of the some 240 agreements, opera- tive and inoperative, between members and nonmembers,2 nearly 200 agreements were with Eastern European countries, 19 with mainland China, and 16 with other state trading countries 2 Inc lud ing e ight agreements maintained by Cambodia, which joined the Fund dur ing 1969. 5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS in Asia. It is estimated that exports by member countries f inanced under bilateral paymen ts a r rangemen ts are less than 2 per cent of total world exports. While reliance on bilateralism has been reduced progressively over the years, and bilat- eral paymen ts arrangements between ma jor trad- ing nations now are extinct, trade and payments relations w i th bilateral par tners continue to be important to some ind iv idual member countries. There has been a noticeable tendency, on the other hand, for members who are reducing their reliance on bilateralism to harden the settlement provisions under their rema in ing agreements by agreeing on earlier settlement in convertible cur- rencies of swing overdraf ts or net balances. Measures Affecting Capital Changes in the regulations concerning capital movements again were f requent and widespread. On balance, there was a fu r th er t igh ten ing of controls over the foreign assets and l iab i l i t ies of commercial banks in Europe and in the United States, wh i le the controls over ou twa rd direct investment were ma in ta ined w i th only minor changes in France, the United K ingdom, and the United States. Indus tr ial and developing countries alike took f u r t h er steps to check outflows on pri- vate account for inves tment in foreign securities and real estate or for deposit abroad. In Germany, the adm in is tra t ive restriction of November 1968 requ i r ing the prior approval of the Bundesbank for the acceptance of new depos- its from nonresidents and for the payment of interest on newly opened nonresident savings accounts was revoked in February 1969. At the same time the need for the Bundesbank's approval for the raising of new loans and credits from nonresidents by German financial institu- tions was also abolished. With effect from the beginning of May, the authorities revoked an ear- lier decision that the m in imum reserve require- ment of 100 per cent on additions to commercial bank liabilities to nonresidents was to be termi- nated at the end of April. The reserve ratio on existing external liabilities was increased with effect from the beginning of June. With effect from December 20, 1969, existing restrictions were abolished on payment of interest on nonresi- 6 dents' deposits (other than savings accounts of pr iva te ind iv idua l s) and on the sale of domestic money ma rket paper to nonresidents ( inc lud ing repurchase agreements on domestic fixed-interest securities). Many changes took place in the condi- tions on which the Bundesbank made swap facili- ties in U.S. dollars available to authorized banks un t il these fac i l i t ies were suspended on Septem- ber 29. Since then, the Bundesbank has not inter- vened in the forward exchange market. In November, following the establishment of the new par va lue, reserve requirements for foreign l iab i l i t ies were brought into line with those for liabilities to residents. While Germany did not through official action l im it foreign access to its capital m a rk e t, the Central Capital Market Com- mittee, a panel of representatives from all sectors of the bank ing industry, recommended that the volume of foreign issues be limited through vol- un ta ry restraint. This was primarily done to avoid excessive tension on the market for long-term capital. Certain tax facilities were introduced to s t imu la te ou tward direct investment, particularly investment in developing countries. France did not significantly alter it$ exchange controls over capital movements, other than by the re in troduc t ion of a "security currency." How- ever, it revised the special controls over capital transactions introduced early in 1967. The liqui- dation of French investments abroad was made subject to prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance, who could request its postponement. The transfer abroad of the liqui- dation proceeds of direct investments in France owned or controlled by nonresidents had to be supported by documentary evidence submitted to the Treasury in advance. Control over borrowing abroad was also tightened, since the scope of exemptions f rom prior approval for such borrow- ing was reduced. Exemptions were maintained only for borrowing abroad for the purpose of financing direct investment or the execution of works abroad, for the financing of foreign trade or certain in terna t ional merchanting transactions, for borrowing by specially authorized banks, and for loans not exceeding F 2 million taken up by ind iv idual firms. All repayments had to be made through authorized banks and notified ex post to the Treasury. The Operations Account ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAIN DEVELOPMENTS IN RESTRICTIVE PRACTICES coun tr ies3 generally took corresponding meas- ures and in addition most made subject to prior approval the purchase of French securities and the collection of funds for investment or deposit in France or any other country. In August France re-established a market for dealings between residents in foreign exchange proceeds of French or foreign securities held abroad under the control of an authorized bank. "Security cur- rency" acquired in this market could be used within one month for the purchase of French or foreign securities abroad. Italy took various measures to prevent unau- thorized capital outflows. In April the emigrant transfers previously authorized by the authorized banks were made subject to direct approval by the Italian Exchange Office. Regulations concern- ing the mu tual granting of financial short-term and medium-term loans between residents of Italy and those of other countries of the European Economic Commun i ty were tightened: loans could be extended by Italian residents only up to a total of Lit 250 million for each applicant, and each beneficiary was required to certify that he had not received any other loan from an Italian resident which would raise his total receipts from such loans above Lit 250 million. Similar regulations were introduced regarding loans granted to Italian residents by residents of other EEC coun- tries. In February 1969 the regulations for swap lira transactions were tightened, and the cost of new swap forward transactions was raised by 5 per cent, increasing the cost of forward cover to the banks. In March, commercial banks were instructed to liquidate their net credit positions abroad by June 30 and to repatriate the funds. To help stem the illegal outflow of banknotes, Italian residents selling fixed assets located in Italy against Italian banknotes presented by nonresidents were made subject to penalty if the foreign origin of the funds could not be verified. Checks on the illegal export of lira banknotes were tightened and from February 1970 shipments of Italian bank- notes from foreign banks could no longer be accepted by commercial banks, but rather had to 3 These are countries whose institute of issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury: Cam- eroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Malagasy Republic Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. be shipped direct to the Bank of Italy for credit to special accounts. Italy also took measures to regulate investment by Italian residents in foreign investment funds and to encourage portfolio in- vestment in Italy. In April 1969 commercial banks were forbidden to participate in syndicates placing new issues of Euro-bonds, except for issues by international companies with interests in Italy. All investment by Italian residents in non-Italian in- vestment funds was made subject to individual authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. In February 1970 the permissible lapse of time for settlement of import and export transactions was reduced substantially. During the course of the year the Netherlands introduced measures to limit the net foreign asset position of authorized banks. In November the rema in ing restrictions on domestic borrowing by nonresidents to finance direct investments in the Netherlands were removed. In Belgium-Luxem- bourg, commercial banks were instructed to tighten the extension of credit to nonresident cus- tomers. The supervision over certain capital market operations became more strict. The United Kingdom's voluntary restraint pro- gram for investments in specified Sterling Area countries was maintained in 1969. As noted in the Twentieth Annual Report on Exchange Restrictions, early in the year restrictions were lifted from portfolio investment by institutional investors in securities whose capital or dividends or interest are payable or optionally payable in currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area. The requirements with respect to the use and surrender of investment currency, however, remained unchanged. Nationalized industries were again encouraged to borrow outside the Sterling Area to meet part of their capital requirements. There was a tendency for the use of "back-to- back" financing by nonresident-controlled firms in the United Kingdom to increase, but this was to some extent offset by control measures in the United States. In the United States, the mandatory Depart- ment of Commerce program and the voluntary Federal Reserve Board programs relating to out- flows of U.S. capital were maintained but eased somewhat. The easing related mainly to export transactions and to investment in developing 7 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS countries. The restrictions on foreign investment introduced in 1968 were relaxed slightly in 1969 and simplified. In April, the 1969 "minimum" world-wide direct investment allowable authorized to every U.S. direct investor was raised from $200,000 to $1 million. Construction companies were authorized to exceed their direct investment allowables in certain circumstances, and airlines were granted special treatment to permit neces- sary investments for the introduction of "jumbo jets." Small and medium-sized investors were per- mitted to file their reports once a year instead of quarterly. In June, U.S. direct investors were per- mitted to use proceeds of long-term foreign bor- rowing to offset reinvestment of foreign earnings as well as to offset transfers of capital from the United States. In Ju ly, the Office of Foreign Direct Investments announced that it would con- sider specifically au thor iz ing direct investment resulting from the exchange by U.S. direct inves- tors of "limited" amoun ts of their equ i ty securi- ties with "limited" groups of foreign nationals to finance direct investments, if the foreigners agreed not to dispose of such securities for at least three years. The Office also announced that it would specifically authorize direct inves tment invo lv ing financing based upon parallel domestic and foreign loans if the Office is assured, among other things, that the foreign company or its U.S. a f f i l ia te intends to invest or re ta in the proceeds of the U.S. loan in the Un i ted States. Under the direct inves tment program announced for 1970, the "m in imum" direct investment allowable was raised from $1 million to $5 m i l l ion, provided that the additional $4 million is spent in the less developed countries (Schedule A countries). The rest of the program remains substantially unchanged. Under the Federal Reserve Board programs, ceilings on bank lending abroad were maintained w i thout much change. In April 1969 it was announced that a bank could either ma in ta in its present ceiling on foreign lending (generally the same as the one in effect during 1968) or adopt a new ceiling equal to ll/2 per cent of total assets, whichever was greater. For nonbank finan- cial institutions, the ceiling was raised from 95 per cent to 100 per cent of the level of foreign loans outstanding at the end of 1967. For 1970, in addition to their existing ceilings, banks could 8 adopt a separate ceiling of l/2 of 1 per cent of their total assets at the end of 1968 for export term loans of at least $250,000 and of an origi- nal ma tu r i ty of one year or longer. Nonbank financial ins t i tu t ions remained subject to a single ceiling, but were permitted to exceed this "mod- erately" through extension of additional export credits. In November 1969 the Interest Equalization Tax was extended to March 31, 1971; mean- while, the effective rate —i.e., the amount by which the cost of foreign borrowing in the United States is increased over the levels of domestic interest rates —had been lowered in April 1969 from ll/4 per cent to % of 1 per cent a year. The exemption for Japan from the tax was termi- na ted when Japan informed the United States that the exemp t ion was not required. The exemp- tion for Japan from the Federal Reserve guide- lines for new long-term investments by nonbank financial institutions was also terminated at the end of December. Du r ing 1969 the Federal Reserve Board intro- duced ma rg inal reserve requirements intended to stabilize the volume of Euro-dollar borrowing by U.S. banks (ma in ly through their branches ab road ). From October, member banks were required to hold in reserve 10 per cent of addi- tions (above a May 1969 base level) to borrow- ing from their foreign branches or from foreign banks, as well as additions to foreign branch loans directly to U.S. residents. The same requ irement applied to assets acquired by foreign branches from the head offices of banks in the United States. (An alternative formu la calls for a 10 per cent reserve on borrowings from branches in amounts greater than 3 per cent of the bank's total deposits.) During the year the Board also requested all member banks with foreign branches to re f ra in from soliciting or accepting deposits by U.S. residents at foreign branches. In Japan, inward direct investment had been liberalized in 204 industries by the end of 1969, including the 50 industries in which investment had been liberalized in 1967. Japan also intro- duced an automatic approval procedure for out- ward direct investment up to $200,000 for each transaction. The restrictions on the transfer of profits from "yen-based" branches, dividends on ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REGIONAL ARRANGEMENTS foreign-owned "yen-based" stocks, and liquida- tion proceeds of "yen-based" branches, stocks, and real estate were removed. The restrictions affecting certain income from "yen-based" assets related only to balances that had accumulated before Japan's acceptance of the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. The Euro-currency market during the period under review increased fur ther in size. In South- east Asia, Singapore licensed a number of banks to accept deposits from non-Sterling Area resi- dents for on-lending outside the Sterling Area, and a small "Asian dollar" market has arisen. Gold The two-tier price system for gold was main- tained in 1969. By the end of the year the free market price had fallen close to the U.S. official price of $35 a fine ounce. In December an agree- ment was reached between the Fund and South Africa on the circumstances in which South Africa might request to purchase currency from the Fund against the sale of gold. These circum- stances were stated in a letter dated Decem- ber 23, 1969 from South Africa to the Managing Director of the Fund. On December 30 the Fund decided that it would purchase gold from South Africa when that country represented that it was making a sale in accordance with the letter of December 23. In the first quarter of 1970 the Fund purchased $283 million in gold from South Africa. Throughout April the price of gold was somewhat above $35 a fine ounce, and it closed the month at $35.85. A free gold market was established in Singa- pore in April 1969 for nonresidents of the Ster- ling Area. Relatively few changes appear to have taken place in the extent to which member coun- tries allow residents other than industrial users to hold or acquire gold. III. Regional Arrangements The 12-year transitional period of the EEC ended on schedule on December 31, 1969. Agreement has been reached to open membership negotiations with Denmark, Ireland, Norway, and the United Kingdom. While the customs union has been completed and a considerable degree of fur ther integration has been achieved, the member states of the EEC still follow indepen- dent monetary and fiscal policies. The EEC Com- mission recently submitted to the Council of Min- isters proposals for a plan to achieve economic and monetary union in various stages during the 1970's. The common external tariff was further reduced by 10 per cent on January 1, 1970 to give effect to one half of the reductions agreed in the Kennedy Round. In March 1969 directives were adopted providing for the harmonization of the customs treatment of re-exports and internal trade in agricultural products. The introduction of a value-added tax system in all member coun- tries by January 1, 1970 was delayed until Janu- ary 1, 1972 when Belgium and Italy asked for postponements of one and two years, respec- tively. The delegation to the Commission of the sole responsibility for the negotiation of trade agreements with third countries was also delayed; however, bilateral agreements have now become subject to approval by the Council. In December, certain common rules were agreed, with immedi- ate effect, for imports from and exports to CMEA countries; common liberalization lists were applied to imports from each of six coun- tries (Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, and the U.S.S.R.) which include only those products that have been liber- alized by all EEC member states. The French devaluation and the German re- valuation led to some strains on the common agricultural price policy. The principle of community-wide agricultural prices was tempo- rarily waived for France and Germany. France was allowed to apply special import subsidies and export levies until the end of 1971, when franc prices of agricultural products are to have been readjusted to the common level. Germany was allowed to apply special import duties and export subsidies on farm products until the end of 1969; thereafter compensation payments financed by the German Government and partly by the Common Market fa rm fund were to be made to German farmers over a four-year period. In December 1969 agreement was reached on the financing of the Community in its final stage. After January 1, 1971 the Community will have 9 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS its own income f rom the following sources: levies jointly imposed on fa rm products imported f rom third countries, customs duties on imported industrial goods, and a direct contribution from the national budget of each member country. By 1975 the EEC Commission is to receive all agri- cultural levies and customs duties on industrial products that now are received by member coun- tries, and any deficits in the EEC budget will no longer be covered by contributions from the national budgets but from value-added tax receipts. Certain temporary arrangements will be applied un t il Janua ry 1, 1978. For 1970, an interim financing plan for the Common Market farm f u nd establishing direct national contribu- tions according to a "key" is in effect. From 1975 onward, the EEC Parliament in Strasbourg will have limited control over EEC expend i tures but will not be able to increase budget revenue above the m ax imum approved by the Ministerial Council. The financing agreement still requires the national ra t if ica t ions of the coun tr ies con- cerned. On February 9, 1970 the central bank Gover- nors of the EEC countries put into force an agreement introducing a system of m u t u al short- term financial assistance. In Ju ly 1969 the second Yaounde Convention was signed with 18 Afr ican and Malagasy States. In September, a second association agreement was also signed with Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda, the first having been ratified but not having gone into force. Austria has requested an additional round of talks on special association with the EEC. New association agreements have been concluded w i th Morocco and Tunisia. Trade agreements have been concluded with Israel, Lebanon, Spain, and Yugoslavia. At the present time, talks are under way with Argentina, Malta, and the United Arab Republic concerning special trade agreements or association arrangements. The trade agreement with Iran has been extended for one year. Iceland became the eighth member of the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) 4 on March 1, 1970. At the EFTA ministerial confer- ence in November 1969, EFTA Gove rnmen ts reaff irmed their readiness and desire to take pa rt in early negotiations with the EEC with a view to arriving at comprehensive solutions on the ques- tion of European integration in which all mem- bers of EFTA would have the possibility of par- ticipating. A d ra ft treaty was completed by Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden for a Nordic Common Market (Nordek) early in 1970. The Nordic Common Market aims among other things at the formation of a customs union, freer trade in agricultural products, and the formation of an integrated capital market. The Finnish Govern- ment, while approving the contents of the treaty, did not on the basis of the present integration policy situation consider it possible to start the process of pu t t ing this treaty into effect. Following the slow progress that has been recorded over the past few years in establishing free trade among the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) countries, membe rs5 agreed in December 1969 to modify the treaty of Montevideo, postponing the fu ll implementation of freer trade from 1973 to 1980. Instead of annual average tariff cuts of 8 per cent, LAFTA members will make reductions of slightly under 3 per cent a year. A recommendation for a fou r- year study on a possible Latin American Common Market embracing South America and Central America was also adopted. A subgroup of LAFTA countries, comprising Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru on May 26, 1969 signed an agreement to form the Andean Common Market. The agreement entered into force in October and provides for the estab- lishment of a customs union by 1980. Each coun- try is allowed to exempt certain items from tariff cuts. The group intends to synchronize general economic policies, in particular industrial invest- ment policies. An Andean Development Bank is to be set up to help finance these ventures. The Central American Common M a r k e t6 came under strains in 1969. Even so, on Janu- 4 The present members are Austria, Denma rk, Iceland, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Finland is l inked to EFTA by the Finland- EFTA Agreement. 5 Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela. 6 Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Honduras, and N icaragua. 10 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REG IONAL ARRANGEMENTS ary 2, 1970 thé Central American Fund for Mone- tary Stabilization came into being. Member coun- tries subscribed initial shares of US$1 million each, w i th US$20 million scheduled as the Fund's total resources. The aim of this Fund is to grant short-term assistance to member countries in balance of paymen ts d i f f icu l t ies. On May 1, 1969 import du t ies on trade between members of the Caribbean Free Trade Association ( C A R I F T A ): in products inc luded in the so-called reserve list were reduced by 20 per cent as scheduled. CAR I FTA members are pro- ceeding w i th studies on the feasibility of estab- l ish ing a common external ta r i ff and ha rmon iz ing the system of indus t r ial inves tment incentives. An in t ra reg ional paymen ts clearing system was estab- lished on December 1, 1969 for which the cen tral banks of Guy an a, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago act as agents. Payments were previously cleared th rough the London offices of the com- mercial banks in the area. On J anu a ry 28, 1970 the Caribbean Develop- ment Bank came in to being. Its members are An t igua, the Bahama Islands, Barbados, British Honduras, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jama ica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, Tr in idad and Tobago, and Tu rks and Caicos Islands, w i th Canada and the United Kingdom as nonregional members. Dur ing 1969 the members of the Tripartite 7 An t igu a, Barbados, Dom in ica, G renada, Guy an a, Jama ica, Mon tserra t, St. K i t t s -N ev i s -Angu i l l a, St. Lucia, St. V incen t, and Trinidad and Tobago. Agreement ( Ind ia, the Un i ted Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia) agreed to extend the list of mutual special ta r i ff concessions with effect from Octo- ber 1, 1969, and moved to raise the margin of spe- cial t a r i ff concessions from 40 per cent to 50 per cent. Iraq, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the Un i ted A rab Repub l ic began consultations to speed the a t t a inm ent of the goals of the Arab Common Market .8 Algeria applied for member- ship in May 1969. In May 1969, also, an agree- ment was concluded between Iraq and the United A rab Repub l ic in tens i fy ing the economic cooper- ation between the two countries. The East A f r ican Community (Kenya, Tan- zania, and Uganda) continued talks with Burundi, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Somalia, and Zambia on their entry in to the Commun i ty. In December 1969, a new Customs Union Agreement was signed between Botswana, Lesotho, South Afr ica, and Swaziland replacing a prev ious agreement which dated from 1910. Under the new agreement, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland should receive substantially increased shares in the common pool of revenues f rom customs, excise, and sales taxes collected by South Afr ica, and may ins t i tu te certain measures of protection for their domestic indus tr ies. The four coun t r ies con t inue to use the South A f r ican rand as the ir common currency. 8 Iraq, Jordan, the Syrian Arab Republic, and the Un i ted A r ab Repub l ic par t ic ipa te, and Kuwa it partici- pates de This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution P A RT II ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Explanatory Note to Country Surveys In Part II, individual surveys of the exchange systems of the member countries of the Fund, including three nonmetropolitan territories, are given. The exchange system of one other coun- try which was not a member of the Fund at the time this Report was wr i t ten is also described. In general, the surveys relate to the exchange systems as at the end of 1969. For a few countries the surveys relate to the exchange systems at a later date or include references to significant developments which took place early in 1970. The description of an exchange system is not necessarily confined to those aspects involving exchange restrictions or exchange controls. As in previous Reports, questions of definition and juris- diction have not been raised, and an attempt has been made to describe restrictive systems in their entirety, except for the ta r i ff structure and, in most cases, direct taxes on exports and imports. Thus, the surveys include references to such features as import licensing, advance deposit requirements, import surcharges, travel taxes, export licensing, and export incentive schemes. Similarly, the sec- tion "Changes du r ing 1969" may include refer- ences to certain developments that have a direct impact on international transactions but are not reflected in the body of the survey, such as ma jor revisions of import ta r i f fs or developments relating to regional cooperation. A standardized framework has been employed in draf t ing the surveys: each system is described under similar headings, and each country survey contains a final section that lists chronologically the more significant changes which took place in the restrictive system dur ing 1969 and, for a few countries, the early months of 1970. An indication of the subject ma t ter to be found under these headings is given in the following paragraphs. Under Exchange Rate System, the par value, where one has been agreed with the Fund, and/or the official exchange rates are given, the latter usually in terms of the U.S. dollar, together with a reference to other rates which may be essential to the country's exchange rate system. In the sur- veys of certain countries w i th multiple exchange rate systems, fu r th er details are given in the Table of Exchange Rates (see be low ). The rates quoted are those effec t ive on December 31, 1969, unless stated otherwise. Under Exchange Control Territory, the extent of applicability of the exchange control is explained when it covers two or more sovereign or auton- omous territories whose residents have common rights and obligations under the exchange control regulations. Under Administration of Control, some indica- tion is given of the authorities responsible for policy and administration of the controls and of the extent to which their powers are delegated for practical working purposes. Under Prescription of Currency, the require- ments affec t ing the selection of the currency and method of settlement for transactions with other countries are described. Where a country has concluded payments agreements with other coun- tries or monetary areas, the terms of these agree- ments often lead to prescription of the currency for specified categories of payments to and from the countries concerned. The countries with which bilateral payments agreements are in force are listed either in the text or in a footnote. For a country whose currency has international impor- tance, the prescription of currency arrangements involve the use of its own currency held by non- residents in accounts with authorized banks. Pay- ments to and from such nonresident accounts are then regarded as equivalent to settlements in for- eign currency. Under Nonresident Accounts, an indication is given of the manner in which the country regards the accounts in its currency of account holders not regarded as resident in that country, and the facilities and limitations attached to such accounts. Where there is more than one type of nonresident account, the na tu re and operation of the various types are described. Under Imports and Import Payments, import licensing requirements are described br ief ly, and details are given of the additional requirements imposed on payments for imports and of any advance deposit requirements. The term "open general license," which is used in some countries, indicates arrangements whereby certain imports or other international transactions are exempt from 15 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPORT ON EXCHANGE RESTRICTIONS the restrictive application of licensing require- ments, in contrast to an "individual license," which may be either given freely, or restricted in its issue, according to administrative decisions. The expression "global quota" is employed in the sense that many countries now use it, to indicate quotas that are not necessarily un iversal in their application but instead may apply to a group of countries, e.g., global quotas for imports from countries in the European Economic Community. Under Payments for Invisibles, action in the matter of permitting payments abroad for current transactions in invisibles is described br ief ly, together with any limitations on the export of foreign and domestic banknotes. For some coun- tries that do not impose limitations on payments for invisibles, this section is combined w i th the section on Proceeds from Invisibles (see below). Under Exports and Export Proceeds, the appli- cation of export licensing, where this is operative, is indicated, together with a brief outline of the requirements imposed on the proceeds derived from exports. The expression "exchange receipts must be surrendered" is used to indicate that the recipient is required by the regulations to sell his foreign exchange against local currency, usua l ly at the official rate, to the central bank or to a com- mercial bank or exchange dealer authorized for this purpose. In some countries there is a require- ment that the exchange be sold in a free marke t. Under Proceeds from Invisibles, any conditions governing exchange derived from transactions in invisibles are given, and any limitations on the import of foreign and domestic bankno tes are described. Under Capital, a general indication of the spe- cial arrangements or limitations attached to inter- national receipts and payments in respect of capital items is given. Where special arrangements for foreign capital also cover the income thereon, they are dealt with in this section rather than in the sections on Payments for Invisibles and Pro- ceeds from Invisibles. Under Gold, the principal provisions are sum- marized that govern the holding, negotiation, and import and export of gold coins and gold in other forms. In the Table of Exchange Rates, which is pro- vided for certain countries having a multiple cur- rency practice involving more than two rate levels, the exchange rates effective on a specified date are given. For convenience, the da ta in these tables are in terms of local currency un i ts per U.S. dollar. The tables include effective rates arising from the negotiation of percentages of the total exchange at different rates, the imposition of exchange taxes, the negotiation of exchange certificates, etc. Under Changes during 1969, the more signifi- cant changes in the country's restrictive system during 1969 are presented in chronological order. Important measures made effective in the early months of 1970 are indicated at the end of certain surveys or in footnotes to the text. * * * The ind iv idual country surveys were prepared by the staff of the Fund and reviewed by the authorities of the countries concerned. Prepara- tion of this part of the Report was under the general direction of Mr. J.H.C. de Looper, Advisor, Exchange and Trade Relations Depart- men t. 16 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Country Surveys ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN Exchange Raie System The par value is 0.0197482 gram of fine gold per A fghani or Af 45.00 = US$1. The A fghan i- stan Bank (Da A fghan i s tan Bank, the central b a n k) charges commissions ranging from y10 of 1 per cent to l/2 of 1 per cent on exchange transac- tions. The official buy ing rate applies to the pro- ceeds of exports of k a r akul (wh ich is exported only to the convertible currency a rea ), wool (except cashmere wool exported to the converti- ble currency a rea ), cotton, and n a tu r al gas (which is exported only to the U.S.S.R.); to 30 per cent of the foreign currency salaries of for- eign employees of the Government, government enterprises, and domestic companies; and to pur- chases of b i la teral agreement currencies for ma in- tenance in A fghan is tan of embassies and state t rad ing organ iza t ions by the respective b i la teral par tner countries. Exchange subsidies are applied to the official buy ing rate as follows: Af 3.12 per US$1 for export proceeds from cotton when pay- ment is received under a bilateral paymen ts agreement; Af 10 per US$1 for proceeds in con- vertible currencies from exports of wool; Af 19 per US$1 for proceeds in convertible currencies from exports of cotton; and Af 20 per US$1 for proceeds from exports of ka raku l. The off ic ial selling rate applies to certain foreign exchange paymen ts by the Central Government. All other transactions take place at free ma rket rates through e i ther the banks or the bazaar; proceeds from the export of w a lnu ts received over b i la te ral paymen ts accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. The A fghan i s tan Bank ma in ta ins its operational free market rate for the U.S. dollar w i th in Af 2 per US$1 either side of the free ma rket rate quoted in the bazaar. On December 31, 1969, the free ma rket rate of the A fghan is tan Bank was Af 75.75 buying, and Af 76.25 selling, per US$1, and the free market rate in the bazaar was Af 78.08 buy ing, and Af 78.58 selling, per US$1. The A fghan is tan Bank also posts free market rates for deutsche mark, French francs, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs by applying their par values to the current free market rate for the U.S. dollar; free ma rket rates for the Ind ian rupee and Pakistan rupee that are determined by demand and supply for the curren- cies are also quoted by the Bank. The Afghan i- stan Bank f rom time to time sells in the free market bilateral agreement dollars and bilateral agreement sterling resulting largely f rom loans for consumer goods under certain of Afghan is tan's bilateral payments agreements; most of this exchange is purchased by government commercial and indu s t r i al enterprises for their imports f rom the coun tr ies concerned. The selling rate for U.S.S.R. agreement dollars was Af 55.50 per US$1 on December 31, 1969, and that for main- land Ch ina agreement sterling was Af 176.20 per £ stg. 1. Administration of Control Foreign exchange is controlled by the Govern- ment through the A fghan i s tan Bank. The control is fac i l i ta ted by the existence of relatively large companies, some of them government owned or government controlled, specializing in the export of such commodities as karaku l, cotton, wool, and carpets. However, these companies do not exercise a monopoly over the export of such commodities. Prescription of Currency Se t t lemen ts w i th countries w i th which Afghani- stan has b i la te ral paymen ts agreements must be made in the foreign currenc ies specified in the agreements .1 The proceeds f rom exports of kara- ku l, wool, and cotton to other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. There are no other prescription of currency requirements. imports and tmport Payments Imports are not subject to license. Imports of a few items (e.g., some drugs, liquor, arms, and amm u n i t i o n) are prohibited on public policy grounds or for security reasons; in some instances, however, special permission to import these goods may be granted. The importation of certain other goods (e.g., a few textiles, agricul- 1 These countries are Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Poland, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There is also a bilateral payments agreement w i th India under which the bulk of trade is settled through a spe- cial account maintained in inconvertible Indian rupees. 19 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AFGHANISTAN tural and food products, and selected nonessential consumer goods) also is prohibited. There are no quantitative restrictions on other imports. Most bilateral agreements, however, specify quotas (and sometimes prices) for commodities to be traded, and the Government facilitates the fu l f i l l- ment of the commitments undertaken in the agreements. On the whole, trade with these coun- tries is carried out on a compensation basis and usually both imports and exports are arranged by the same trader; imports against exports of cotton and wool are carried out by the Government or government agencies, or the proceeds of exports are allocated for the Government's external debt servicing. Exchange is provided at the official rate for imports by the Government. Payments for imports through the bank ing system may be made only under letters of credit, against which a deposit of 100 per cent of the value of the imports in afghanis calculated at the prevailing free market rate, or in foreign exchange, is required upon establishment of the letter of credit. Such deposits, if made at a commercial bank, may be used as collateral for loans. The Afghanistan Bank is authorized to re- fuse to sell foreign exchange for the importation of a group of consumer goods that are regarded as nonessential. However, exchange for these items may be purchased either from the commercial banks or in the bazaar. Payments for Invisibles Central government payments for foreign debt service and other invisibles are made at the official rate. All other payments are settled at free market rates. Travelers leaving Afghanistan may take out not more than Af 500 in Afghan bank- notes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to license. Exports of a few commodities (e.g., cottonseed, opium, museum pieces) are prohibited. Otherwise, con- trol is exercised only over exports to bilateral agreement countries (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above). However, exporters of cotton are required to sell at least 20 per cent of their total exports to countries from which pay- ments will be received in convertible currencies. 20 Karakul is not exported to payments agreement countries. Exchange receipts from exports of karakul, wool, and cotton must be surrendered at the official rate, irrespective of destination. The net proceeds of all exports other than karakul, wool, and cotton, irrespective of the currency in which they accrue, must either be sold at free market rates to a domestic bank or be used by the exporter or a third party to pay for imports. Export receipts from cotton are subject to an exchange subsidy at the rate of Af 19 per US$1 for convertible currency receipts and Af 3.12 per US$1 for exports settled under bilateral payments agreements. Convertible currency receipts from wool exports are paid an exchange subsidy at the rate of Af 10 per US$1 and those from karakul exports are paid an exchange subsidy of Af 20 per US$1. Proceeds from the export of walnuts received over bilateral payments accounts are subject to an exchange tax of 9.5 per cent. Proceeds from Invisibles Thirty per cent of the foreign currency salaries of foreign employees of the Afghan public and private sectors must be converted into afghanis at the official rate, but the remaining 70 per cent may be remitted abroad or exchanged at the free market rate. Except in the case of India, receipts over bilateral payments agreement accounts from the embassies and state trading organizations of the countries concerned for their local expenses in Afghanistan are converted at the official rate. All other receipts from invisibles are sold at free market rates through either the banks or the bazaar. Travelers entering Afghanistan may bring in Afghan banknotes not exceeding Af 500. Capital Foreign investment in Afghanistan requires prior approval and is administered, as is domestic private investment, by an Investment Committee composed of five cabinet ministers. The Foreign and Domestic Private Investment Law (Febru- ary 10, 1967) provides for a number of benefits, which include ( 1 ) income tax exemption for five years, beginning from the date of the first sales of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution products resulting from the new investment; (2) exemption from import duties on essential imports for five consecutive years a f ter approval of the investment; ( 3) exemption from taxes on dividends for five years a f ter the first d is tr ibu t ion of dividends, but not more than eight years a f t er the approval of the investment; (4) exemption from personal income tax and corporate tax on interest on foreign loans which constitute part of an approved investment; (5) exemption from export duties for ten years after the approval of the inves tmen t; and (6) manda to ry purchases by government agencies and departments of the ir requirements from enterprises established under the law where such products are substantially competitive with imports in price and qua l i ty. The law also establishes that an investment approved by the Investment Committee shall require no fu r ther license to operate in Afghani- stan. Principal and interest installments on loans from abroad may be remitted freely to the extent of the legal obligation involved. Profits may be repatriated freely, and capital may be repatriated after five years at an annual rate not exceeding 25 per cent of the total registered capital. All the foregoing transfers are made through the free market. Joint ventures of foreign and Afghan capital are encouraged, but no specific percent- ages of domestic participation are prescribed and 100 per cent foreign-owned investments are not precluded by law. AFGHANISTAN Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, sell, and import gold in any form. Exports of gold and silver in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Council of Ministers; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and indus tr ial users. Commercial exports of gold and silver jewelry and of other articles con- taining minor quantities of gold or silver do not require a license and may be made freely. Cus- toms du t ies are payable on imports and exports of silver in any form, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties. The import du ty on gold is 1 per cent. Changes during 1969 March 21. The exchange subsidy for export receipts from karakul was raised from Af 10 per US$1 to Af 20, raising the effective export rate to Af 65 per US$1. June 11. Export procedures and export du ty requirements were liberalized for exports by trav- elers of specified domestic products. August 22. A monopoly du ty of Af 3 a kilo- gram was introduced on imports of tea. September 9. The effec t ive level of import duties was raised to bring in about Af 120 mil- lion a year in additional revenue. September 9. Certain commodities whose import previously was prohibited could be im- ported freely. 21 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of Algeria has been established with the Fund. The official unit of currency is the Algerian Dinar. The exchange rate for the French f ranc is a fixed rate of DA 1 = F 1.12499, giving the relationship DA 4.93706 = US$1. The Central Bank of Algeria deals in French francs and the other French Franc Area currencies at fixed rates, free of commissions or charges. Buying and selling rates for specified currencies of countries outside the French Franc Area l are established by the Central Bank of Algeria on the basis of the daily rates quoted on the Paris exchange market for these currencies. The exchange rate applicable to "agreement dollars" is the average rate for the U.S. dollar in the Paris market on the day pre- ceding the en try on the clearing account. The predeva lua t ion rate for the French f r anc and the prerevaluation rate for the deutsche mark are applied to certain payments or receipts in the respective currencies. The Central Bank charges on its transactions in non-Franc Area currencies a commission ranging from 0.2 per mill to 1.5 per m i l l, depending on the nature of the transac- tion, and a tax of 6 per cent on the amount of the commission. The foreign exchange reserves are centralized in the Central Bank; authorized banks must clear their foreign currency position w i th their correspondents in the French Franc Area at the end of each day but they are under certain conditions permitted to hold outside the French Franc Area cover for documen tary cred- its. There are no forward exchange facilities. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank have general jurisdiction over exchange control. The Central Bank of Algeria assists in the formu- lation of the exchange legislation and regulations and is responsible for their execution and for their application by the authorized banks. In addition, three commercial banks and the Postal Administration have been given au thor i ty to carry out some of the detail of exchange control. Import and export licenses for all commodities are issued on the advice of the competent minis- try by the Ministry of Commerce and require the visa of the Central Bank. The Office National de Commercialisation (ONACO), the Office Algérien Interprofessionnel de Céréales (OAIC), the Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Viti-vinicoles (ONCV), thé Société Nationale des Tabacs et Allumettes (SNTA), thé Société Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion (SNED ), thé Société Nationale de Sidérurgie (SNS ), thé Société Nationale de Constructions Mécaniques (SONACOME ), certain similar organi- zations, the Service des Alcools, and certain pro- fessional associations (groupements profession- nels) have a monopoly over the import of certain commodities. The Société Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production, le Transport, la Trans- forma t ion et la Commercialisation des Hydrocar- bures (SONATRACH) has a monopoly over imports and domestic sales of petroleum and petroleum products. Investment of foreign capital in excess of DA 500,000 in Algeria requires approval by a National Investment Committee in order to obtain the benefits of the Investment Code. All foreign borrowing requires the prior approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Algeria has traditional ties with the French Franc Area, but the Central Bank of Algeria does not ma in ta in an Operations Account with the French Treasury and Algeria applies exchange controls to transactions with the Area.2 Settle- ments with other countries in the French Franc Area are generally made in French francs. Settle- ments w i th countries with which Algeria has con- cluded bilateral payments agreements are made through special accounts under the terms of the 1 These currencies are listed as Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Djibouti francs, Italian lire, Mexican pesos, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Algeria its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls imposed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations with foreign countries are applied also to Algeria. 22 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution agreements. Some of these accounts are denomi- nated in Algerian dinars and other in U.S. dollars of account; under the agreement w i th Mali, the currencies of the two pa r tner countries are used. Algeria has signed payments agreements with Albania, Bu lgar ia, ma in land China, Cuba, Czech- oslovakia, Gu inea, Hunga ry, North Korea, Mali, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., the Un i ted Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Settlements with other countries are usua l ly made through Paris in French f rancs, and sometimes in the currency of the country concerned. Nonresident Accounts For residents of countries outside the French Franc Area, the regulations per ta in ing to nonresi- dent accounts are similar to those applied un t il early 1967 in France; most of these accounts are Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars or Inter- nal Nonresident Accounts. For residents of other French Franc Area countries, there are three types of accounts in Algerian d inars: Ind iv idual Suspense Accounts, Franc Area Accounts, and Final Depar ture Accounts. Except as described below, all operations through these accounts are subject to au thor iza t ion. Individual Suspense Accounts may .be opened without au thor iza t ion and may be credited with payments from any country. Franc Area Accounts may be opened only with prior au tho r iza t ion f rom the Central Bank of Algeria. They may be credited freely for author- ized imports f rom the French Franc Area, and with proceeds from the sale of convertible curren- cies; with proceeds f rom the sale of freely dispos* able funds (other than notes and coins) in the currencies of other countries of the French Franc Area; and w i th interest on the balances of Franc Area Accounts. The Central Bank may authorize the cred i t ing of other payments. They may be debited freely for any payment in Algeria to a resident of any coun t ry in the French Franc Area ( inc lud ing A lge r ia ); for any transfer to the credit of an account of a person residing in a country in the French Franc Area other than Algeria; and for any amount due to the bank with which the account is kept, for interest, commissions, or repayment of capital claims. Transfers between these accounts are free. ALGERIA Final Departure Accounts may be opened, w i thout prior authorization, in the name of any person residing in Algeria, but not of Algerian na t iona l i ty, who intends to leave Algeria for another country in the French Franc Area. These accounts may be credited freely with an amount equ iva lent to the holdings at October 20, 1963 in the account of the person concerned; with pro- ceeds from sales of real estate of the account holder, provided that the sales are made through the in termed iary of a notary public; and with any other payments, up to DA 1,000. The Central Bank may authorize the crediting of other pay- ments. These accounts may be debited freely for all paymen ts in Algeria on behalf of the account holder; ou tward transfers require individual approval. The Central Bank of Algeria maintains special accounts for central banks of the countries with which Algeria has concluded payments agree- ments. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Certain imports are proh ib i ted regardless of origin. All imports from b i la teral payments agreement countries require a license. Imports f rom all other countries of a large number of commodities, corresponding to about two th irds of total imports, are subject to either q u a n t i t a t i ve restriction or a special import procedure. Imports of firearms, ammunition, and explosives requ ire an import license from the M in i s t ry of the Interior ( for civil and military firearms) or the M in is try of National Defense ( for mun i t ions and explosives). All other imports from coun tr ies w i th which Algeria does not main- ta in bilateral paymen ts agreements may be made f ree ly; some liberalized imports, however, require the prior visa of one of the import monopolies. The Government has the monopoly over the importation of many commodities through ONACO, OAIC, SNTA, ONCV, SNED, SNS, SONATRACH, SoNACOME, and certain similar orga- n iza t ions, while some other items may as a rule be imported only by professional associations (groupement professionnel des produits laitiers or GAIRLAC, groupement professionnel des bois or BOIMEX, groupement professionel de la chaus- sure or GIAC, groupement professionnel pour les 23 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA textiles or GITEXAL, groupement professionnel des cuirs et peaux or GICP, and groupement pro- fessionnel d'achat de l'industrie textile or GADIT). Imports that are not liberalized are in principle licensed in accordance with an annual import program which is based on global quotas. Payments for liberalized imports, unless origi- nating in a payments agreement country, do not require approval by the Central Bank. Liberal- ized imports not exceeding DA 10,000 in value require only the submission of an invoice to the customs when imported from a country with which no payments agreement is in force, but must subsequently be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Liberalized imports exceeding DA 10,000 and all nonliberalized imports must prior to the transaction be domiciled with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents must be presented and through which all payments related to the transaction must be made. All imports for which payment has to be made before the goods reach Algeria must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and, unless the Central Bank approves otherwise, advance payments may not exceed DA 5,000 or 20 per cent of the import value, whichever is smaller. Payments for liberalized or nonliberalized imports may be approved by, and settled through, the Postal Administration up to an import value of DA 5,000. Import licenses require the visa of the Central Bank. Imports made "without payment" (sans paie- ment), i.e., imports which do not involve com- pensation of any kind, from the French Franc Area require an authorization by the Ministry of Finance if their c.i.f. value exceeds DA 500. For goods imported under the import declara- tion procedure or with an import license, import- ers may, as soon as the import has been regis- tered with an authorized bank, purchase the required foreign exchange from the bank. Unless earlier payment is to be made in accordance with the provisions of the import license or of a com- mercial contract approved by the authorities, pay- ment to the foreign exporter may be made only after the shipping documents have been presented to the bank. The importer may also, after having domiciled the import, open a documentary import 24 credit payable upon presentation of the shipping documents. Imports from the French Franc Area are regu- lated by Notice ZF2 of October 23, 1963, which sets out a procedure similar to the procedure applied to imports from other countries. Goods normally subject to import license and quota restriction may be freely imported in small parcels, provided that the value of a shipment does not exceed DA 60 and the same addressee does not receive more than one parcel a day and that the parcels he receives during the year do not exceed DA 240. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles to all countries require the approval of the Central Bank. How- ever, when supporting documents are presented, approval may be granted by authorized banks, or sometimes by the post office, either freely or up to specified limits for certain payments such as ( 1 ) those relating to approved trade transactions and maritime contracts, (2) travel expenses, (3) transfers of salaries and wages, (4) educational expenses, (5) advertising expenses, and (6) pay- ments relating to government transactions with foreign companies. For payments for which the approval authority has not been delegated, the granting of exchange must be authorized by the Central Bank. All insurance must be concluded with Algerian companies. Residents of other French Franc Area coun- tries working in Algeria under the program for technical cooperation may transfer abroad a cer- tain percentage of their net salaries: 50 per cent for single persons or married persons having their families in Algeria; 70 per cent for persons having their families abroad; and 100 per cent for employees who spend their vacations abroad (the transfer being limited to the duration of their absence from Algeria). For other workers from French Franc Area countries who have con- tracts with employers and hold the necessary employment documents, the amounts that may be transferred are 30 per cent, 50 per cent, and 100 per cent, respectively, for the groups enumerated above. Residents of other countries who are employed in Algeria are permitted to transfer abroad 25, 45, and 100 per cent, respectively. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The payments must be transferred once a month on the basis of the remuneration for the previous month. Persons mak ing such transfers of savings are not entitled to allocations for other personal transfers (e.g., for educational purposes). For residents traveling by air or sea to other countries, including the French Franc Area, the foreign exchange allocation is equivalent to DA 700 a person a year (DA 350 for children under 15) and is issued on presentation of a valid passport and travel documents; for travel by means other than air or sea, the allocation is DA 50 a person a year for adults and DA 25 for children under 15. Furthermore, residents travel- ing by air or sea to a country w i th in the French Franc Area are entitled to an allocation, in a con- vertible currency of a country of the French Franc Area, equ iva lent to DA 500 a person a trip, on presentation of travel documents; children under 15 are entitled to DA 250. These allocations for the French Franc Area are not applicable to per- sons living in border areas. Foreign exchange for business travel is subject to authorization by the Central Bank of Algeria. Funds in EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may be used for business travel. Pilgrims traveling to Saudi Arabia can obtain Saudi Arab ian riyals up to the equ iva lent of DA 1,500 a person; the allocation can be taken up in the form of a check by those traveling by air or sea, and in banknotes by those traveling overland. Travelers may take out Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers may also re-export any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Certain exports, including used equipment and machinery, live- stock, firearms, ammunition, explosives, and cer- tain radio equipment are prohibited regardless of destination. Some exports to the French Franc Area, all exports to countries outside the French Franc Area that are not included in the free export list, and all exports to countries with which Algeria has bilateral payments agreements require licenses. The export of specified products is reserved for certain state trading organizations. ALGERIA With certain exceptions, exports must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank. Prior registration is not required for exports that are made on a firm sale basis, provided that they do not exceed DA 5,000 in value and that they are payable in not more than 90 days. Af ter customs clearance, such exports must be registered, if they were not registered earlier. If the payment period is more than 90 days, the exports may be registered only after authorization is given by the Central Bank. Sales on consignment are expressly subject to authorization by the Central Bank, and registra- tion must always take place prior to customs clearance. The proceeds of exports, including those to the French Franc Area, may be the object of a 90- day credit. Foreign exchange proceeds may be used to make authorized payments abroad within three months from the date of their receipt. Petroleum companies holding mineral rights must repatriate to Algeria at least between 50 and 75 per cent of the proceeds from their exports of hydrocarbons. Certain percentages of the proceeds from exports may be kept in special EFAC (Exportations- Frais Accessoires) accounts. Exporters to the French Franc Area may retain 5 per cent of their export proceeds (up to DA 20,000 per export t ran sac t ion ), while those to the convertibility area (i.e., all other countries except those with which payments agreements are in force) may retain 12 per cent if they export to the United States or Canada and 8 per cent in all other instances. EFAC accounts are denominated in d inars and are held with the bank at which the export is registered. Certain payments may be made from these accounts without prior approval by the Central Bank. All other export proceeds must be surrendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated and surrendered. There are no restrictions on the import of for- eign banknotes, coins (except gold coins), checks, and letters of credit, but foreigners must declare such holdings when they enter Algeria. Resident travelers may reimport Algerian dinar banknotes up to DA 50 a person. Nonresident travelers are not permitted to bring in Algerian banknotes. 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA Capital Residents are obliged to repatriate and surren- der capital assets (or the sales proceeds the reo f) held or acquired outside Algeria. Capital trans- fers to any destination are subject to ind iv idual license; residents are not normally permitted to acquire capital assets outside Algeria. All borrow- ing abroad or from nonresidents is subject to prior approval by the Minister of Finance. A new Investment Code, superseding that of 1963, was promulgated by Decree-Law No. 66-284 of September 15, 1966. It provides for state guarantees in respect of foreign investments of more than DA 500,000 in the industrial and tourist sectors. The new code provides for a retransfer guarantee in respect of the sale or liqui- dation proceeds of invested foreign capital, and establishes that profit remittances on such invest- ments will be permitted up to 15 per cent annually of the foreign capital originally invested. Tax facilities may also be granted, and invest- ments of more than DA 5 million may be given exclusive rights in a specified geographic area and may be accorded tariff protection. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Algeria for num isma t ic purposes. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm requ i re licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users, and licenses for imports for indus- trial use have not been issued for some time. Commercial imports of jewelry and of other articles containing gold are severely restricted.3 Changes during 1969 During the period under review a number of 3 On January 16, 1970, Ordinance No. 70-6 created the Agence nationale pour la d is t r ibu t ion et la trans- formation de Tor et des autres métaux précieux (AGENOR ). The principal task of AGENOR is the distribution of unworked gold for indus t r ial and pro- fessional use, under directives established by the M in- ister of Finance that are transm i t ted by the Central Bank. The previous func t ions of the Central Bank con- cerning the distribution of gold to jewelers were trans- ferred to AGENOR. This agency could purchase in Algeria, hold, transform, and d is tr ibu te any other precious metal. AGENOR could also, w i th in the f rame- work of the exchange control regulations, import and export any precious metal. 26 imports were included in the list of those subject to either quan t i ta t ive restrictions or a special import procedure. A new type of import program based on global quotas was substituted for the system under which the program had comprised quotas for the French Franc Area, each payments agreement country, and the convertibility area (i.e., all other countries combined). January 9. The travel allocation for pilgrims t rave l ing to Saudi Arabia was increased from DA 1,200 a person to DA 1,500 a person. February 25. Certain exemptions were granted f rom the monopoly of the SNS over imports of iron and steel products. March 29. The export of fish and crustaceans was made subject to individual licensing by the Office of the Merchant Marine and Fishing. April 3. Ordinance No. 69-18 created the Office des f ru i ts et légumes d'Algérie (OFLA). April 4. The import of medical and pharma- ceutical products was reserved for the Pharmacie Centrale Algérienne (PCA ). April 21. The import of mechanical products was by Ordinance No. 69-23 reserved for the Société Nationale de Constructions Mécaniques. May 22. The import of cinematographic films for commercial purposes was reserved for the Office Na t ional du Commerce et de l'Industrie Cinématographique (ONCIC). June 3. The import of paper, cardboard, and office and school supplies was reserved for the Société Nationale d'Edition et de Diffusion. Cer- tain public sector agencies and enterprises were exempt from the monopoly. June 17. The import of construction materials was reserved for the Société Nationale de Maté- riaux de Construction (SNMC). June 17. The import and export of materials used in the manu fac tu re of paper were reserved for the Société Nationale des Industries de la Cel- lulose (SONIC). June 19. All lighterage activities, the manage- ment of mar ine transportation, and the chartering of ships were reserved for the Compagnie Natio- nale Algérienne de Navigation (CNAN ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ALGERIA August 11. The fixed exchange rate for the French franc was changed from DA 1 — F 1 to D AI = F 1.12499. August 11. Ordinance No. 69-66 of August 18, 1969 went into effect. Any physical or j u r i d i- cal person realizing, as a result of modifications in mone tary parities, a profit on debts or claims created prior to such modifications, was required to pay these to the Treasury. September 1. Ins truc t ion No. 17 prohibited authorized banks from ho ld ing export proceeds outside the French Franc Area for the account of exporters. October 2. Ordinance No. 69-80 gave OFLA a monopoly over domestic and foreign sales of dates. October 15. Ord inance No. 69-83 vested the monopoly over imports of all alcoholic beverages in the ONVC. December 16. Ordinance No. 69-99 estab- lished the Na t ional Algerian Office for Oils and Fats (Off ice national algérien des produits oléi- coles). December 31. The Finance Law, Law No. 69-107, was pub l ished. It provided that all bor- rowing abroad or from nonresidents required prior approval by the Minister of Finance. 27 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA Exchange Rate System On Janua ry 9, 1957, a par value for the Argentine Peso was established by Argentina with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions take place in the exchange market, in which the buying and selling rate on December 31, 1969 was M$N 350 per US$1.1 The Central Bank of Argentina deals with the commercial banks at M$N 350 per US$1, buying and selling. Within the limits of Buenos Aires City, exchange transactions between banks and individuals are subject to a stamp tax of %0 of 1 per cent.2 Forward exchange transactions may be con- cluded between individuals and authorized banks or among authorized banks at the fixed exchange rate of M$N 350 per US$1, subject to freely agreed premiums or discounts. Forward exchange purchases by the public are restricted to those concluded as part of a swap transaction, or to cover import payments made under documen tary credit, bank collection, or bank guarantee. Swap operations designed to finance t rad i t ional exports may be concluded direct by authorized ins t i tu t ions. Other operations, such as the financing of non- traditional exports, and financial loans to indus tr ial or commercial enterprises must be submitted to the Central Bank for prior consideration. Forward exchange purchases covering import payments require a 40 per cent deposit in local currency for a period of 180 days; this deposit may not be financed by local banks. Forward exchange con- tracts connected with imports may be extended for a period of up to 180 days from the date of their original ma tu r i ty; those corresponding to exports may be extended only once, for a period of 30 days (or, where shipment is unavoidably delayed, for the period of the de lay ). Such con- tracts may be settled through clearing in the exchange market. The Central Bank intervenes in 1 On January 1, 1970, the existing currency un i t, the peso moneda nacional, was replaced by a new currency un i t, the peso, at a ratio of $a 1 = M$N 100. This change did not involve any appreciation or deprec ia t ion. 2 With effect from February 1, 1970, the tax was levied throughout the country. 28 the forward exchange market as a seller of U.S. dollars at a prem ium which at the end of 1969 was 8 per cent per annum. Argentina accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment with effect from May 14, 1968. Administration of Control All exchange transactions may be carried out through banks and institutions authorized expressly for this purpose; those of a financial character, including purchases and sales of travel exchange, may be made by exchange houses, in any amount. Exchange agencies may purchase banknotes and travelers checks only; they may sell these only to banks and authorized institutions. Prescription of Currency Transactions with other countries must be set- tled in convertible currencies. Virtually all pay- ments between Argentina and Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, and Peru are made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Argentina and the central banks concerned, within the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Nonresident Accounts Authorized banks may open accounts in pesos and in foreign exchange in the name of any non- resident. Balances on nonresident accounts may be used freely for any purpose, in Argentina or abroad. Transfers between accounts may be effected freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports are free of import and exchange licensing; exchange to pay for them may be purchased in the exchange market. Goods im- ported by official agencies require approval by the Central Bank and the Ministry of Economy and Labor if payment is extended over a period of more than 180 days. Furthermore, all public sector imports are screened by a special body, the Asesoría de Importaciones del Sector Oficial. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports of some vehicles, tractors, and engines are temporarily prohibited. All imports are sub- ject to a tax of 4 per cent on the freight. Import taxes include the following: a consular fee of ll/2 per cent payable in foreign currency on most import invoices; statistical taxes of IVi per cent or %0 of 1 per cent applicable to all imports; taxes ranging from 4 per cent to 10 per cent on imports of paper products, certain types of timber and timber products, and forest prod- ucts; and taxes ranging from M$N 2 to M$N 20 a kilogram on imports of iron and steel for the Steel Program. Import duties range from 5 per cent to 140 per cent. Many types of machinery, however, are exempt. An advance import deposit of 40 per cent of the c. & f. value is required on many goods from all sources except when imported by the public sector, by some firms being established in the Province of Tucumán or by foreign experts and technicians up to certain amoun ts in specified fields; goods imported f rom LAFTA countries are exempt if the goods are included in Argentina's concession lists (including the special lists for Bolivia, Ecuador, Paraguay, and U r u g u a y ). The commodities that do not require an advance deposit include most raw materials and fuels, many capital goods, and many sem imanufac tured goods for the production of non trad i t ional exports. The deposit is payable in pesos and calculated at the current exchange rate in the exchange ma rke t. It must be lodged before any of the following actions can be unde r taken: opening a letter of credit; w i thdraw ing shipping documents f rom the intermediary bank; purchasing foward exchange; or clearing goods through customs. The deposit is automatically refunded a f ter 180 days. Payments for specified capital goods imported by private firms (with the exception mainly of those in lists applicable to LAFTA countries) when valued at over US$20,000 and purchased with foreign or domestic credit, must be made in installments over a period ranging from at least two years to at least five years after the date of shipment, depending on the total value of the goods. Payment in cash at the time of delivery is permitted, however, if the importer uses exclu- sively his own funds. The prior approval of the Central Bank is required when the terms of pay- ARGENTINA ment are not in accordance with the prescribed m in imum terms or when the amount payable exceeds the equivalent of US$1 million. There are certain special arrangements relating to exemption from advance deposits for imports by automobile manu fac tu re r s; nevertheless, payments by the automotive indus try may be made without any restrictions. Advance paymen ts for imports other than capital goods are only permitted in exceptional circumstances. Payments for invisibles The banks and institutions authorized to deal in foreign exchange are permitted to sell exchange for all categories of invisibles without limitation or documentary evidence. Travelers may take out any amount in domes- tic or foreign banknotes and coins, except gold coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are generally free of direct controls but m i n im um export prices are established for many agricultural and livestock exports as a basis for the payment of duties and the surrender of export proceeds. Exporters of most traditional commodities are required to repatriate and sell in the exchange market the foreign exchange pro- ceeds of their exports within 10 working days a f ter shipment. Proceeds from nontraditional exports may be surrendered a f ter the due date of payment, which is freely negotiated between the exporter and the buyer. The proceeds of exports to Chile (except those of nontraditional exports) must be collected w i th in 90 days of the bill of lad ing and surrendered w i th in 10 working days af ter the due date. Some products are subject to export taxes (derechos de exportación) calculated on the basis of the f.o.b. sales value or on the index values fixed by the State Department of Commerce upon the proposal of the Advisory Commission on Export Values, on which the National Grain Board, the National Meat Board, the Secretariats of Agriculture, Commerce, and Finance, and the Central Bank are represented. The principal export taxes are (1) 12 per cent for frozen and chilled beef and o f fa l; (2) 10-15 per cent for live animals, mutton, and greasy wool; (3) 8 per cent 29 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA for corn, sunflower seed oil and processed linseed oil, and tobacco; and (4) 6 per cent for whea t. The tax must be paid before sh ipment of the merchandise or w i th in the following 30 days when there is a bank aval that guaran tees its paymen t. All exports are subject to a 2 per cent tax on the f re igh t. Cer ta in other taxes on specific exports are also levied. These include a 1.5 per cent tax, the proceeds of wh ich are destined for the Na t ional Institute for Agricultural Technology, on exports of agr icu l tural and livestock products. Import du t ies and any other charges paid on imports of raw ma ter ia ls or other products incor- porated in exported articles are re tu rned to exporters. Exporters of specified nontraditional manu fac tu red or other goods receive a tax rebate of 12 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue as a re imbu rse- ment of in te rnal taxes on the ma ter ia ls used, and a rebate of 10 per cent on income tax. The Central Bank has established a system of special financing, to be granted to Argen t ine exporters through banks, w i th a view to p romo t ing certain exports of goods and services. This system will provide financing for 80-90 per cent of the ir value, depend ing on the na tu re of the commodity or service, w i th terms of up to eight and one ha lf years for cap i tal goods, three years for durab le and semidurable goods, and up to one and one half years for other goods. The same terms apply to the f re ight and insu rance p rem iums involved, provided that A rgen t ine means and services are used. The Na t ional Export Credit Insu rance Com- mission provides credit insu rance for exports of capital goods and consumer du rab le goods. Proceeds from invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be used freely. Travelers may bring in freely any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes and coins. Capital There are no l im i ta t ions on inward or ou twa rd capital transfers by residents or nonresidents. Argentine indus tr ial or commercial firms, how- ever, require the authorization of the Central Bank to enter into swap operations under which loans may be accepted in a convertible currency. Authorized banks may freely export resident- owned and nonresident-owned securities, whether domestic or foreign. 30 Gold Residents may hold gold coins and gold in any other form in Argentina or abroad. They may sell gold in coins and bars in Argentina to institu- tions and houses authorized to deal in foreign exchange, but the regulations pe rm i t t ing nonbank residents to buy gold coins and bars from these firms are in suspense. Imports of gold coins are unres tr ic ted and free of duty. Imports of gold bars are subject to the exchange regulations applicable to imports of other commodities; imports by indu s t r ial users are subject to a statistical du ty of %0 of 1 per cent, and those by others are subject in add i t ion to sales tax. Exports of gold may be carried out by institutions and houses authorized to engage in exchange transactions; they require the prior approval of the Central Bank and the proceeds must be received in convertible cur- rencies. Changes during 1969 January 15. A new banking law, Law No. 18061, was enacted. January 21. Circular R.C. No. 370 raised, f rom US$10,000 to US$20,000, the value beyond" which imports of capital goods are subject to spe- cial financing requirements. January 21. Decree No. 194/69 provided exemp t ions from import duties and advance import deposit requirements to foreign experts and techn ic ians in the field of agriculture, indus- try, m in ing, or fishing for imports of professional equ ipment and materials, provided that the value of such imports did not exceed M$N 18 million in each ind iv idual case and that the foreign experts and technicians took up residence in Argen t ina for a m in imum period of three years. January 30. The export tax on linseed oil was reduced f rom 25 per cent to 12 per cent, and a 10 per cent sales tax previously levied on linseed 011 exports was eliminated (Decree No. 332/69). The tax on expor ts of sorghum, buckwhea t, and millet was reduced f rom 18 per cent to 8 per cent (Decree No. 333/69). January 31. Circular R.C. No. 371 revised and consolidated the list of commodities exempt f rom the 40 per cent advance import deposit requirement. It also provided for the automatic release of deposits af ter 180 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution January 31. Decrees Nos. 400/69 and 401/69 eliminated w i thho ld ing taxes on exports of medic- inal plants, insecticides, and manu fac tu red oils, other than those for indus t r ial use. March 12. Decree No. 893/69 provided that exports of beef wou ld no longer be subject to guarantees subm i t ted to the Na t ional Meat Board. March 13. A new body, the Asesor ía de Impor- taciones del Sector Oficial, was created by Decision No. 29/69 of the M in i s t ry of Economy and Labor. It was charged w i th e x am i n i ng all impo rt app l ica- tions of pub l ic sector agencies. March 14. Decree No. 1060/69 subjected im- ports of cer ta in m ine ral and chemical f e r t i l i z e rs to duties of 20 per cent, and of ce r ta in other f e r t i l i- zers to 40 per cent. P rev ious ly, f e r t i l i z e rs had been free of import duties. March 28. Decree No. 662/69 supp lemen ted Decree No. 1756/68 of April 5, 1968 and established a p r e f e r e n t i al 20 per cent ra te of import d u ty on imports of capital goods designed to complete ins ta l la t ions and modernize ex is t ing facilities in the following indu s t r ie s: lumb e r, plas- tics, rubber, glass containers, beer, mach ine ry, electrical app l iances and componen ts, and paper (except paper p u l p ). Spare pa r ts could be in- cluded up to 5 per cent of the to tal impo rt va lue. April 15. Law No. 18188 provided th at the Central Bank wou ld put in to c ircu la t ion a new currency un i t, "Peso," equal to 100 old pesos, on Janua ry 1, 1970. April 21. Law No. 18189 and Decree No. 1871/69 implemented the provisions of Law No. 17267 and Decree No. 3040/67 of May 1967 and provided for the establishment of a National Export Credit Insurance Commission. The Com- mission would p rov ide cred it in su rance for exports of capital goods and consumer du rab le goods. April 23. Decree No. 1928 abolished the export tax on l in en ya rn, casein, and ram ie and reduced that on l inen fiber and r am ie fiber f rom 12 per cent to 6 per cent. May 12. Decree No. 2206 reimposed the sales tax on exports of linseed oil at a rate of 8 per cent. May 15. Circular R.C. No. 376 added certain ARGENTINA items, in c lud ing various chemicals, electric motors, generators, and transformers, to those listed in Circular R.C. No. 371 of J anu a ry 31, 1969 as exempt f rom the advance import deposit requ i remen t. June 15. Law No. 18250 prov ided that all impor ts of gove rnmen t, prov inc ia l, and o f f i c i al en t i t ies, those imported with government financ- ing or government bank guarantees, and impor ts subject to tax benefits, must be shipped in Argen- t ine - f lag vessels. Argen t ine ships must also be granted p r io r i ty in transpor t ing exports of govern- ment enterprises and the Gove rnment would de te rm ine the inc lu s ion of preferred goods exported by the p r iva te sector. Sh ipmen ts of goods to and f rom coun t r ies w i th which A rgen t ina m a i n t a i ns reciprocal agreements providing that 50 per cent of all goods be shipped in Argen t ine vessels were exempt from the provisions of this law. August 7. Decree No. 4271/69 established new gu ide l ines for the promotion of the petro- chemical indu s t ry and provided, in ter a l ia, for the reduc t ion of cus toms du t ies on imports of var ious s em im anu f a c tu r ed petrochemicals over a seven- year period, f rom a range of 35-80 per cent to a range of 10-20 per cent by the beg inn ing of 1976. Impor ts of specified petrochemicals were also ex- empted f rom the 40 per cent advance import deposit r equ i r em en t. August 25. Decree No. 4764/69 exempted an add i t ional numb er of items, inc lud ing glucose, dex tr in, and starches, from the advance import deposit requ irement and temporarily reduced the import du t ies thereon to 5 per cent. September 3. C ircu lar No. B689/RC378 was issued conce rn ing special fac i l i t ies for the financing of expor ts sub ject to export promotion measures. October 15. The Central Bank's intervention rate in the forward market for U.S. dollars was changed; the l im it on the discount of the peso in th at ma rket was moved from 4 per cent to 8 per cent per a n n um. (This limit had previously been changed f rom 6 per cent to 4 per cent per annum on May 15.) October 15. Decree No. 6583 lowered the export tax on raw wool from 12 per cent to 10 per cent and that on washed wool and wool waste from 6 per cent to 4 per cent. 31 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ARGENTINA October 30. Circular No. B697/RC 379 re- minded banks that the general permission for swap transactions between authorized institutions and their customers was restricted to the cover for financing needs in connection with exports of traditional export products, and that all other swap transactions required the prior approval of the Central Bank. October 31. Circular No. B698 of the Cen- tral Bank contained new guidelines for bank credit. These were intended to restrict, inter alia, the financing of excessive stocks of domestic and imported goods and of foreign firms' profit remittances, and the substitution of domestic bank credit for foreign financing. December 12. Decree No. 7833 reduced export taxes on certain types of beef from 15 per cent to 12 per cent and from 10 per cent to 8 per cent. December 31. Law No. 18526 provided that with effect from February 1, 1970 the existing tax on purchases and sales of foreign exchange would be applicable throughout the country. 32 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.995310 gram of fine gold per Australian Dollar or $A 1 = US$1.12. Official rates are fixed for spot transactions in sterling: $A 2.1429 buying, and $A 2.1514 sell- ing, per <£ stg. 1. The rates for spot transactions in other currencies quoted by the authorized banks are based on the closing buying and selling rates of the previous day in London and New York. The rate for the U.S. dollar on Decem- b er 3 1, 1969 w as U S $ 1 . 2 13 b u y i n g, a nd US$1.1147 selling, per $A 1. Banks are permitted to extend forward cover up to six months in re- spect of most exchange risks arising out of trade transactions and invisible transactions of a non- capital na ture. Australia accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from Ju ly 1, 1965. Administration of Control The Reserve Bank of Australia administers the exchange control on behalf of the Commonwealth Treasurer, but considerable discretionary powers are delegated to the trading banks authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions. Import and export licensing is administered by the Depart- ment of Trade and Industry and the Department of Customs and Excise. Prescription of Currency Australia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Australia and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling, in another Sterling Area currency, or in Australian currency through the account of a bank domiciled in any other country in the Sterling Area with a bank in Australia. Payments for imports from countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Australian currency through the account of a bank in the country or area of origin of the goods with a bank in Australia, or in any non- 1 The monetary area of Australia includes Papua and New Guinea. Sterling Area currency. Proceeds from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area may be accepted in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Australian currency from an appropriate nonresident account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency which is freely exchangeable for External Account sterling. Nonresident Accounts All credits to the accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to approval, which is granted in the same circum- stances and subject to the same conditions as if a transfer to the country of residence of the account holder were involved. Transfers are allowed freely, on application, between accounts of nonresidents of the Sterling Area. Under cur- rent policy, the balance on an account held by a nonresident of the Sterling Area may be with- drawn in convertible currency. There are no blocked accounts containing funds ineligible for remittance overseas. Imports and import Payments With the few exceptions mentioned below, goods may be imported freely without import licenses, and no restrictions are imposed on pay- ments for imports, provided that the prescription of currency requirements are observed. Import licenses are required for unwrought, waste, and scrap a lum inum and aluminum alloy; used equip- ment (and parts therefor) for earth-moving, excavating, and handling of materials; used or secondhand four-wheel drive vehicles (excluding public-service type passenger vehicles); and spec- ified knitted garments. The licensing of the knit- ted goods is a temporary measure applied while the Tariff Board conducts inquiries as to the needs of local industries affected. In accordance with Resolutions of December 16, 1966 and May 29, 1968 of the UN Security Council, mandatory sanctions have been applied against Rhodesia. Import controls are maintained on certain goods, irrespective of origin, for reasons of health, morals, or security; import controls are maintained over certain other goods where it is considered necessary to enforce quality standards. 33 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRALIA Payments for invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control, but, with the exception of transfers to specified bodies in Viet-Nam and rem i t tances to Rhodesia (except in certain cir- cum s t an c e s ), they are not restricted; the control operates p r ima r i ly to prevent unau thor ized capital transfers, a l though there are some restrictions ma in ta ined for security reasons. There ia a basic exchange allowance of $A 4,000 in any 12 mon ths for any kind of travel in any country; additional amoun ts may be obtained on applica- tion, provided that the exchange control is satis- fied th at the exchange is to be used for bona fide travel expenses and not for an unau tho r ized capi- tal transfer. Limits are placed on remittances for f am i ly ma in tenance and g i f ts; however, applica- tions for such t ran s fe rs are trea ted liberally, and amoun ts beyond the normal limit for fam i ly ma in tenance are approved on application. Travel- ers who are not residents of Aus tra l ia may take out any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes w i th in 6 mon ths of entry, provided that they brought the notes in to Aus tra l ia. Other travelers may take out up to $A 100 in Aus tra l ian cur- rency, w i thout special au thor iza t ion; of this amoun t, up to $A 4 may be coins. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all commodities, unless specifi- cally exemp ted, requires an export license in terms of the Bank ing (Foreign Exchange) Regu- lations, to ensure that the fu ll proceeds are received in a currency and w i th in a period approved by the Reserve Bank. To assist supervi- sion, there is a f u r t h er condition that all shipping documents, bills of lading, etc., must be drawn to the order of and delivered to the Reserve Bank or a trading bank acting as its agent. The Cus- toms (Prohibited Exports) Regulations prohibit the export of specified goods either absolutely or subject to prescribed conditions. The purpose of the controls, inter alia, is to ensure adequate sup- plies to meet Australia's domestic requirements (e.g., of copper and copper scrap and nickel- bearing scrap) and to assist the orderly market- ing in respect of primary products. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited in accordance with the UN Resolutions. To avoid the imposition of import quotas on beef and mu t ton by the United 34 States, restraints are applied to exports of beef and mu t ton to that market. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received in Sterling Area currencies may be disposed of freely. Pro- ceeds from invisibles in other currencies do not have to be surrendered, but may be disposed of only w i th permission. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital All transfers of capital from Australia require approval. Transfers abroad of resident capital norma l ly are allowed only for certain types of d irect inves tment overseas. Approval is normally granted for the repatriation of capital by nonresi- dents, but no advance commitments are given. No restrictions are placed on the receipt of cap- ital f u n ds from abroad, but residents must obtain prior approval before borrowing foreign currency, inc lud ing Sterling Area currency, or incurring a l iab i l i ty to a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area. Under the Government's guidelines policy, all enterprises in which more than 25 per cent of the equ i ty is held directly or indirectly by overseas in teres ts are requested to consult the Reserve Bank in respect of proposals to borrow in Aus- t ra l ia. The gu ide l ines provide for reasonable access to Au s t ra l ian borrowings for financing normal requ iremen ts of funds for working capital and for approval to be readily given to borrow- ings to finance export transactions. The amount of local borrowings to finance capital investment perm i t ted under the guidelines depends primarily on the amount of overseas funds invested in the enterprise and the share of the equity in the com- pany held by Australians. Foreign securities owned by Australian resi- dents need not be surrendered. The export of securities and practically all transactions in for- eign securities are subject to approval. Funds invested by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area in securities quoted on an Austra- lian stock exchange can be repatriated under cur- rent policy in non-Sterling Area currency at official market rates of exchange. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Residents of Australia are permitted to sell in the inves tment currency or property currency market in the Un i ted Kingdom receipts in non- Sterling Area currencies that under the U.K. reg- u la t ions are eligible for disposal in these marke ts. Gold Residents must su r render to the Reserve Bank of Aus tra l ia all gold coming into the ir possession w i th the exception of gold coins the gold content value of which does not exceed $A 50 and gold law fu l ly acquired for use in a profession or trade. Newly m ined gold acquired by the Reserve Bank is made ava i lab le at its official buy ing price of $A 31.25 a fine ounce to an association of gold producers for sale at free ma rket prices to local indu s t r ial users or overseas purchasers. Certain domestic gold production is subsidized under the Go ld-M in ing Indu s t ry Assistance Act, 1954-66. Imports of gold are not restricted but imported gold becomes subject to de l ive ry to the Reserve Bank. Exports of gold requ i re the approval of the Reserve Bank. Gold jewelry is not subject to acqu is i t ion by the Reserve Bank and imports of such items are unres tr ic ted. Exports of gold jew- elry exceeding $A 250 in va lue requ ire the issue of an export license. Travelers require an export license if tak ing out of Aus tra l ia ce r ta in specified goods, i n c l u d i ng gold jewe lry, in excess of a total va lue of $A 2,000 or when the gold con tent va lue of any one article exceeds $A 250. Changes during 1969 Du r ing the year, cer ta in procedural changes were made in the exchange control field. These reduced the number of w r i t ten applications requ ired for most classes of remittances from Au s t ra l ia and for transac t ions in Aus t ra l ian securities on account of overseas residents. The au tho r i ty of banks to approve applications for forward exchange cover w i thout prior reference to the Reserve Bank was extended. The require- ment that Au s t r a l i an residents should report holdings of foreign securities was discontinued. AUSTRALIA January 1. Import licenses ceased to be requ i red for tw ine, rope, cordage, and cable of po lye thy lene and /or polypropylene. January 5. The Australian stock exchanges agreed to revise the ir listing requirements so that it wou ld be possible for the shareholders of an Au s t r a l i an company to resist foreign take-overs by a d j u s tm e n ts to the voting rights of different categories of shares. January 6. The Government announced that r e s t r a int wou ld be exercised to ensure that expor ts of beef and mu t ton to the United States would not exceed 505 m i l l ion pounds or such h igh er figure as m ight be allocated to Australia in ca lendar year 1969. January 31. Controls were imposed on exports to No r th V ie t -Nam. February 24. A f u r t h er extension of the range of i tems from specified developing countries per- m i t t ed to en ter Au s t r a l ia at preferential rates of du ty came in to effec t. Other items were added on September 19. July 1. Restrictions were imposed on impo rt of add i t ional kn i t ted garments. the September 16. New guidelines were announced r e l a t ing to borrowing in Australia by companies in wh ich more th an 25 per cent of the shares are held by overseas interests. They involved some mod i f ica t ion and elaboration of existing policies. Formu las were specified to serve as a basis for d e t e rm in ing the l im i ts to access to borrowings in Au s t ra l ia. November 4. Controls were imposed on the export of n icke l-bear ing scrap metals in order to conserve supplies of nickel for Aus tra l ian indus- try. November 13. As a result of a decision by the U.S. au tho r i t ies, the restraint level on exports of Aus t ra l ian beef and mu t ton to the United States was increased by 14.8 million pounds, to 519.8 m i l l ion pounds in calendar year 1969. 35 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA Exchange Raie System The par value is 0.0341796 gram of fine gold per Austrian Schilling or S 26.00 = US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are S 25.80 buying, and S 26.20 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the Austrian National Bank will buy or sell. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates for other currencies vary between l im i ts which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar ma in ta ined by Austria and such limits in force in the country of the other cur- rency concerned. "Agreement dollars" are quoted at par with the U.S. dollar. Effective costs may deviate in switch transactions. Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of market forces. Austria accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from August 1, 1962. Administration of Control The Aus tr ian National Bank administers the exchange control and issues licenses where required. Most exchange transactions pass through those Aus tr ian banks that have been authorized to implement exchange control regula- tions. The customs issue freely and without delay licenses required for imports of liberalized goods. Licenses, if required, for other imports and for exports have to be obtained from the competent ministry, viz., the Federal Ministry of Trade, Commerce, and Industry (Licensing Office) or the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with the countries with which Aus- tria maintains bilateral payments arrangements1 are made through clearing accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Settlements with all other countries 1 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Poland, Rumania, and U.S.S.R. Settlements with the U.S.S.R. are to take place in convertible currencies from January 1, 1971. 36 may be made either in convertible currencies or through Free Schilling Accounts. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accounts in schillings: Free Schilling Accounts and Blocked Accounts. Free Schilling Accounts may be freely credited with proceeds from the sale of gold, gold coins, or convertible currencies by a nonresident to the Austrian National Bank, or to an authorized bank, as well as with payments permitted by the National Bank on the basis of a general or indi- vidual authorization. The accounts may be freely debited for payments to Austrian residents, with the exception of loans granted by nonresidents to residents, which require individual licenses. Bal- ances may be freely converted into any foreign currency. Transfers between these accounts are free. Blocked Accounts consist of funds that are due to nonresidents. A general license permits their use for many payments for current and capital invisibles. The transfer abroad of funds in Blocked Accounts is subject to an individual license. In most cases the licenses are granted freely if the funds belong to residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in converti- ble currencies. As a result, Blocked Accounts largely represent funds due to residents of coun- tries with which Austria settles payments through bilateral accounts. Nonresidents may also maintain Nonresident Accounts in convertible foreign currencies. These accounts may be debited for the same purposes as Free Schilling Accounts. imports and import Payments All commodities not included in the Annex to the Foreign Trade Law are free of import licens- ing and may be imported from any country without quantitative restriction. All goods included in the Annex require licenses. Most of these goods are free of quantitative restriction. The liberaliza- tion depends on the group of countries from which they are imported; for such liberalized goods, licenses are issued by the customs at the time of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution clearance.2 Nearly all imports from European OECD countries, their associated territories, and many other coun t r i e s3 are liberalized. Imports from Canada and the United States and its terri- tories are liberalized to the same degree as those from the European OECD countries, except that slaughtered poultry is subject to quan t i ta t ive re- striction when imported from Canada or the United States. Imports from three other countries 4 are treated in practically the same way as imports from European OECD countries. Many nonagri- cultural imports are admitted under an automatic licensing procedure when originating in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, or Ruman ia; in practice, this is true also when they originate in the U.S.S.R. Nonliberalized imports may be obtained under various procedures, namely, state trading, global quotas, bilateral quotas, discretionary licensing, and compensation (ba r te r ). State trading covers tobacco in any form, salt, spirits, and various breads tuffs and feedgrains. Global quotas apply to specified imports from OECD countries and all other GATT countries, except Cuba, Czechoslovakia, and Japan. Discre- tionary individual licensing is applicable to all other private imports not covered by the proce- dures listed above. Licenses are usually granted if the imports concerned do not adversely affect domestic industries; in many cases, they are issued in accordance with quotas established in bilateral trade agreements. 2 Goods liberalized for import from a given group of countries may be freely imported from any country in the group, provided that the country of exportation and the country of production of the goods involved are in the same group. 3 The fu ll list is as follows: Algeria, Argentina, Aus- tralia, Belgium, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burund i, Cam- bodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Republic of Congo, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark (including Faroe Islands and Greenland), Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gabon, The Gam- bia, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Guy- ana, Haiti, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Luxembourg, Mala- gasy Republic, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldive Islands, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nica- ragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, Portugal, Rhodesia, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanzania, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 4 India, Israel, and Pakistan. AUSTRIA Import licenses may not be granted for goods imported under compensation transactions, unless there is no other way of settling payments; at present, trade under such arrangements is negligi- ble. Grains and other specified goods are imported in accordance with a special system of controls and regulations maintained under so-called Agri- cu l tural Marketing Laws. In addition to grains, the following groups of products are covered by Marketing Laws: m i lk and bu t ter; cattle, pigs, and horses for slaughter; products from these animals for human consumption; and certain fertilizers. In principle, import licenses are issued only to importers who have received trade licenses. For new importers there is a newcomers' quota, which is up to a max imum of 20 per cent of the corresponding global quota. Import licenses are not transferable and are valid for six months, but this period may be extended. Payments for imports from, and originating in, countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies do not require exchange licenses.5 Payments for imports from, or originat- ing in, countries with which Austria maintains bilateral payments agreements require exchange licenses, which are granted without restriction if the payments are made in the appropriate bilat- eral currencies. Payments for Invisibles With few exceptions, residents are permitted to conclude transactions involving current invisibles with residents of countries with which Austria makes settlements in convertible currencies. Exceptions comprise transactions concerning transport, films, and insurance. For transactions in current invisibles that involve payments to resi- dents of all other countries, individual licenses are required. The licenses are granted after account is taken of the terms of existing bilateral payments arrangements and other considerations, such as the principle of reciprocity and hardship cases; certain liabilities (e.g., freight payments, 5 In a few instances, import licenses are granted only on condition that a bilateral currency is used for pay- ment; in such cases, the necessary exchange license is issued at the same time. 37 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA hand l ing charges, commissions, etc.) are covered by general licenses. Paymen ts on account of au thor ized inv is ib les to residents of coun t r ies w i th wh ich A u s t r ia makes settlements in conver t ib le currenc ies may be made free ly, provided that no cap i tal t r a n s f er is involved. Paymen ts up to S 1,000 to such countries may be made f ree ly, at any t ime, and w i thout ind ica t ion of purpose; paymen ts up to S 1,000 to c lea r ing countries may be made w i thout a special license if they relate to imports or speci- fied services. All other paymen ts to b i la te ral pay- ments agreement countries for inv is ib les requ i re special licenses. Residents trave l ing to countries w i th wh ich Aus tr ia makes settlements in conve r t ib le cu r ren- cies may buy exchange f rom au thor ized banks up to the equ iva lent of S 26,000 for each t r ip. Should a resident requ i re more foreign exchange for traveling, the increase may be au thor ized by the Na t ional Bank. In add i t ion, Au s t r i an resi- dents may arrange for trips abroad th rough t ravel agents and pay in schillings to cover expend i tu res for hotels and food as well as t ran spo r ta t ion. Per- sons leaving Au s t r ia may take w i th them S 15,000 in Au s t r i an notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins. Exporté and Export Proceeds Licenses for exports regu la ted und er the For- eign Trade Law have to be obtained f rom the competent m in i s t ry. Goods exported under com- pensation arrangemen ts are sub ject to licensing by the Federal M in is try of Trade, Commerce, and Indus t ry. For most other exports, licenses are not requ ired. Export licenses are issued w i th due consideration for the provisions of re levant b i la t- eral trade agreements and the f u l f i l lm e nt of quotas established in accordance w i th such agree- ments, and for the needs of the Au s t r ian econ- omy. Export claims must be declared. Export pro- ceeds may either be surrendered or be deposited in accounts w i th authorized banks. Such deposits in convertible currencies may be used f ree ly for authorized payments. Deposits in b i la te ral clear- ing currencies may be used in accordance with the terms of an ind iv idual payments license. 38 Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles, if not sur- rendered or deposited in an account with an au thor ized bank, have to be declared w i t h in eight days f rom the da te of collection. They may e i ther be surrendered or be deposited w i th an au thor- ized bank and subsequen t ly used in the same way as proceeds acc ru ing f rom exports. Persons enter- ing Au s t r ia may br ing in Au s t r i an or foreign bankno tes and coins w i thout l im i t. Capital Direct inves tmen ts by nonresidents are gener- a l ly pe rm i t ted, if made w i th convertible curren- cies or f rom free or originally owned blocked sch i l l ing balances. For inves tmen ts financed in o ther ways ( impo r ted Aus t r ian currency, incon- ve r t ib le currenc ies, inves tment loans, goods), au tho r iza t ion is granted on the merits of each case. Res iden ts are pe rm i t ted to obtain from nonresi- den ts loans and credits as fo l lows: (1) commer- cial credits for a period of up to one year; (2). loans w i th m a t u r i t i es of five years or more, to be used for inve s tment purposes (e.g., for expansion of produc t ion e q u i pm e n t ); (3) loans to be used by enterprises in Aus t r ia in which the nonresi- den ts pa r t ic ipa te; (4) loans secured by export c la ims; and (5) loans for a period of up to five years, to be used abroad for def in i te merchandise transactions. The A u s t r i an Na t ional Bank pe rm i ts the trans- fer abroad of ( 1 ) proceeds f rom the l iqu ida t ion of va r ious fore ign inves tmen ts in Aus t r ia (shares or pa r t ic ipa t ion in Au s t r i an enterprises, Au s t r i an secur i t ies, real estate in Au s t r ia) and ( 2) repay- men ts by res iden ts of foreign loans and credits. The t ran s fer of f u n ds owned by em igran ts, and paymen ts due to nonresidents on account of dowries, inher i tances, and settlements under cer- ta in agreements between heirs, are permitted. Residents are allowed to acquire participation rights in foreign companies, associations, and o ther enterprises, and to establish, acquire, or ex tend foreign agencies or ind iv idua l ly owned firms; earn ings accruing f rom such investment may be reinvested. Residents also are permitted to acquire real estate abroad (provided that it is ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution intended for the personal use of the buyer w i th in one y e a r ), to g rant commercial or investment credits, and to grant credits secured by mortgages in Au s t r ia or abroad. Domestic insurance compa- nies may conclude with nonres iden ts l i fe insur- ance contracts in Aus tr ia. Transactions and operations men t ioned in the four preceding paragraphs are licensed upon docu- men ta t ion, provided that they are concluded with residents of countries w i th wh ich Aus t r ia makes settlements in convertible currencies. A number of authorized banks are pe rm i t ted to accept f rom abroad and to employ abroad f u n ds in convertible currencies for a period of up to five years. Residents are allowed to purchase from non- residents, w i t h o ut res tr ic t ion, foreign secur i t ies quoted on stock exchanges 6 and Au s t r i an securi- ties; for fore ign securities and Au s t r i an ex te rnal bonds, the transac t ions must be carried out on a spot basis through au thor ized banks and, w i th certain exceptions (e.g., in the case of Au s t r i an external bond s ), the securities purchased mu st be kept w i th such bank s. Paymen ts for these pu r- chases to residents of coun tr ies w i th wh ich Au s t r ia makes settlements in convertible currencies may be made in those currencies, whereas paymen ts to residents of coun t r ies w i th which Au s t r ia has bilateral paymen ts agreements may be made only by cred i t ing a Blocked Accoun t. Residents may sell securities deposited in accordance w i th the afore-mentioned provision w i th Au s t r i an au thor ized banks to nonresidents only on a spot basis aga inst payment in convertible currencies and th rough authorized banks. The proceeds of the sale, as well as the fore ign exchange obtained as a result of redemp t ion of the foreign securities by the debtor, may be kept on account w i th an au thor- ized bank. Gold Transactions in gold (exc lud ing jewelry and medallions, which are considered j ew e l ry) are r >T he general license does not apply, however, to the purchase by residents f rom nonresidents of securities of a pa r t ic ipa t ing na tu re in whatever legal form ( inc lud ing shares) that are issued by foreign inves tment f u n ds or by similar ins t i tu t ions of whatever k ind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk-spreading. AUSTRIA governed by the Foreign Exchange Law. The Aus tr ian Na t ional Bank is authorized by this law to deal in gold as def ined the re in; the Bank has granted a numb er of general permissions widely l ibera l iz ing the domestic gold trade, but does not itself buy or sell gold or gold coins, except in transac t ions w i th mone tary au tho r i t ies of other countries or w i th in terna t ional financial institu- tions. The Bank has authorized credit ins t i tu t ions, exchange offices, and coin dealers to buy or sell gold coins that are not legal tender on their own behalf or on the ir customers' beha lf; the prices are based on those for coins and u nm a n u f a c t u r ed gold in f ree markets abroad. The M int releases cer ta in types of gold coins to authorized credit in s t i tu t ions for resale to the public. Residents may hold gold in any form, inc lud ing bars, in Au s t r ia, and they may acquire in Aus tr ia any gold coins th at are not legal tender and any gold medals or medallions; fu r the rmo re, domestic trad ing between residents in gold with a fineness of less th an 0.585 is un res t r ic ted. With the excep- t ion of coins, medals, and gold with a fineness of less than 0.585, the acquisition from residents of gold subject to the Foreign Exchange Law is reserved for the monetary au thor i t ies, authorized indu s t r i al users, dentists, and jewelers; the M in t, gold ref iners, and jewelers are permitted to trade or exchange among themselves gold in any form. Where the Foreign Trade Law prescribes import licenses for gold imports (e.g., for gold shee ts ), the license is either issued by the Minis- try of Trade, Commerce, and Indus t ry, which usua l ly grants any license applied for by indu s t r ial users, or by the customs office con- cerned, wh ich issues licenses automatically for certain gold imports w i th in its competence. Where this law does not require an import license for imports (e.g., for the import of gold ba r s ), the Foreign Exchange Law prescribes a license issued by the National Bank covering the pur- chase of gold; such licenses are issued af ter con- sideration of the merits of each case. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require authorization by the National Bank. The National Bank's imports and exports do not require import, exchange, or export licenses. Commercial imports of jewelry and of articles con ta in ing a m inor amount of gold, such as watches, are liber- alized, licenses being issued automatically by the 39 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution AUSTRIA customs; commercial exports of a number of such articles, however, must be licensed by the Minis- try of Trade, Commerce, and Industry. Changes during 1969 During the year, restrictions on imports from Eastern European countries were relaxed fur ther. January 1. A new Foreign Trade Law came into effect, modifying that of 1956. January 1. An increase from S 500 to S 1,000 took place in the amount up to which authorized banks could by virtue of a general permission freely make payments for any purpose on behalf of residents to recipients resident in countries with which payments take place in convertible currencies. The National Bank also issued a gen- eral permission authorizing payments up to S 1,000 by residents, through the appropriate bilateral account, to residents of payments agree- ment countries; this general permission only covered payments in respect of imports, incidental expenses, bank charges, commissions and agents' fees, and assembling and repair costs. January 1. The number of commodities subject to quota when of Japanese origin was reduced from 244 to 181. February 14. The Austrian National Bank's Notice No. 1/69 provided that shares of foreign investment funds would only be considered as listed on a stock exchange (a requirement for purchases under general license by residents from nonresidents) if all the securities held by the fund concerned were listed on a stock exchange. The above regulation was interpreted as requiring the statutes of the fund concerned to provide expressly that the fund's investments could com- prise no assets other than listed securities. September 17. The National Bank reminded the public that entering into savings programs or capital accumulation programs with foreign investment funds required a special license from the National Bank and announced that such licenses were not being issued. September 18. The Austrian National Bank by Notice No. 2/69 of September 16 revoked Notice No. 1/69 and supplemented the first paragraph of Notice No. 3/62 (containing a general license for purchases of foreign securities by residents from nonresidents) as follows: "This general license does not apply to the purchase by residents from nonresidents of securities of a participating nature in whatever legal form (including shares) that are issued by foreign investment funds or by simi- lar institutions of whatever kind which assemble assets for the purpose of risk-spreading."7 September 24. The limitations on the financial terms for subsidized export credits favoring devel- oping countries were removed. Previously, the maximum maturity was 12 years and the mini- mum interest rate had been fixed at 5.5 per cent. October 7. For the purpose of verifying the genuineness of transactions or transfers in con- nection with the building or purchase of real estate abroad by residents, the Austrian National Bank adopted as its criterion that the building or purchase must be intended for the personal use of the buyer within one year. November 75. A program of temporary meas- ures was put into effect to contain domestic price increases following the revaluation of the deutsche mark. The measures included temporary import duty reductions on approximately 70 items, lowering of equalization levies, and more liberal licensing of specified durable consumer goods from Japan and certain Eastern European countries. Most of the measures were to remain in effect until July 1, 1970. 7 Early in 1970, the National Bank informed the credit institutions that it would continue to authorize automatically purchases by residents on recognized for- eign stock exchanges of listed securities of a participating nature as described above. 40 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Exchange Rate System The par values are 0.0177734 gram of fine gold per Belgian Franc and per Luxembourg Franc or BF 50.00 = US$1 and Lux F 50.00 = US$1. There are two exchange markets —the official and the free. In the official exchange market, only author- ized banks may carry out exchange transactions permitted in that market.1 The spot exchange rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates within official limits of BF 49.625 buying, and BF 50.375 sell- ing, per US$ 1 ; the rates for the other convertible currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar ma in ta ined by Belgium-Luxembourg and such l im i ts in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Most exchange transactions are settled through the official market. For all outward payments in excess of BF 10 million through that marke t, supporting documents must be submitted to the Belgo-Luxembourg Exchange Institute ( Ins t i tut Belgo-Luxembourgeois du Change or IBLC). In the free exchange market, all currencies (including bankno tes) may be bought and sold at freely fluctuating rates. Convertible currencies acquired through the free market may be sold in the official marke t, but no other direct connection between the two markets exists. On Decem- ber 31, 1969, the free market rates between banks for the U.S. dollar were BF 50.15 buying, and BF 50.20 selling, per US$1. Depending on the category of payments and receipts, either one or both of the exchange mar- kets may be used for settlements with so-called convertible area countries, which include all countries except those in the bilateral group.2 If 1The currencies dealt with in the official ma rket are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. They are referred to in this survey as the convertible currencies. 2 The bilateral group countries are Burund i, Demo- cratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and U.S.S.R. receipts from bilateral group countries are obtained in convertible currencies, they are to be ceded on the official market. Forward rates are left to the interplay of market forces. In the official market, authorized banks in Belgium-Luxembourg may deal with other authorized banks and with nonresidents in any of the convertible currencies. Nonbank resi- dents may not acquire convertible currencies in the official spot market un t il a foreign payment is due. Nonbank residents may make forward pur- chases of convertible currencies in the official market through authorized banks, provided that the currencies thus acquired are used for the set- tlement of obligations within five working days from de l ivery; exchange not used within that period must be resold in the official market. Any resident or nonresident, banks included, may deal freely in any currency in the free market. Belgium and Luxembourg accepted the obliga- tions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory There is no exchange control between Belgium and Luxembourg ( the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Un ion —BLEU ); the two countries consti- tute a single exchange control territory in relation to other countries. Administration of Control The ultimate responsibility for the administra- tion of exchange control in the Belgian-Luxem- bourg Economic Un ion is exercised by the Belgo- L u x em b o u rg E x c h a n ge I n s t i t u t e. Ex ch ange control powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to authorized banks. The BLEU Convention of May 23, 1935, revised with effect from August 1, 1965 by a Protocol of January 29, 1963, conferred on the Belgo-Luxembourg Ad- ministrative Commission the authority to license trade transactions; this Commission determines import and export policy, but has delegated the issuance of import and export licenses to the licensing offices of the BLEU, one of which is located in each country. 41 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG Prescription of Currency The prescription of currency requirements operate mainly to ensure that settlements with foreign countries are made, according to their na ture, through the appropriate exchange market or, where payments in Belgian or Luxembourg francs are involved, through the appropriate cate- gory of nonresident account. Foreign countries are divided into two groups: the bilateral countries (see footnote 2) and the convertible area (all other countries). All inward and outward transactions are classi- fied in four groups, which may be summarized as follows: List A covers merchandise, transport expenses, indus tr ial expenses (e.g., costs of proc- essing), and other commercial expenses including insurance; List B covers settlements of travel firms, salaries, pensions, fees, subscriptions, taxes, and public administration payments; List C covers administration expenses, income on securi- ties, loans, etc., rents, exploitation rights, repatria- tion of certain foreign long-term investments, and transfers by emigrants of foreign nationality; List D covers gifts, life insurance payments, fam i ly maintenance payments, capital investments, liqui- dation of investments, dealings in gold, transfers by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg national- ity, transfers by immigrants, inheritances, forward covering of merchandise, private travel expenses (except when settled through travel agencies), and all transactions not in any of the other three lists. The permissible methods of settlement for for- eign payments are summarized in the accompany- ing table. In dealing w i th countries in the con- vertible area, there is a choice between the official and the free market for convertible cur- rencies received from transactions in Lists C and D or paid for transactions in Lists A, B, and C; such settlements with the convertible area if made in Belgian or Luxembourg francs can also be set- tled through a Financial or a Convertible Account. All payments to countries in the con- vertible area, and all receipts from such countries for transactions included in Lists C and D, may also be effected in domestic or foreign banknotes. In addition to the general methods of settle- ment described above, individual licenses are granted in order to allow transfers through the official market for some of the transactions men- tioned in List D. These cover essentially direct investment by enterprises and some capital trans- fers by individuals. Nonresident Accounts Belgian or Luxembourg franc accounts of non- residents are classified as follows: 1. Convertible Accounts. Balances on these accounts are equivalent to currencies negotiated on the official market, and these accounts may be SUMMARY OF PERM ISS IBLE METHODS OF SETTLEMENT FOR FOREIGN PAYMENTS TRANSACTION LIST COUNTRY GROUP FORE IGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE MARKET Outward Payments A, B, and C Convertible D A, B, C, and D Convertible Bilateral Any Any Official or free Free A and B C a n dD Convertible Convertible Inward Payments Convertible Convertible Other Official Official or free Free A, B, C, and D Bilateral Convertible Official NONRES IDENT ACCOUNT IN FRANCS Any Financial Bilateral 3 Convertible 42 — — opened in the name of any nonresident.4 They are not related to any country or monetary area. They may be used for settlements which either must or may be made through the official market, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of convertible currencies in the official ma rket to authorized banks in Belgium- Luxembourg. Balances on Convertible Accounts may be transferred freely to any nonresident account or be converted into any currency in the official or the free market. Mail credits on Con- vertible Accounts are subject to ceilings set by the IBLC; other advances are subject to authori- zation. 2. Financial Accounts. These accounts may be opened only for residents in convertible area countries,5 and they are not related to any coun- try or mone tary area. They may be used for set- tlements wh ich either must or may be made through the free ma rke t, and may be credited with proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of gold or any currency in the free market and of convertible currencies in the official market. Domestic bankno tes and proceeds from the sale in the free ma rket of foreign bankno tes deposited with authorized banks by foreign trave lers in Belgium-Luxembourg or by persons residing abroad may be credited free ly to Financial Accounts. Transfers between F inanc ial Accoun ts are free. Balances on these accounts may be used to purchase gold or any currency negotiated on the free ma rke t. 3. Bilateral Accounts. These accounts may be opened for residents of bilateral countries (see footnote 2 ), and they are related to the country of residence of the account holder. They are used for settlements w i th bilateral countries, and may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale by a non- resident of convertible currencies in the official marke t. Balances on Bilateral Accounts may be transferred to other Bilateral Accounts related to the same coun try. Transfers may be made free ly between Bilateral Accounts related to Bu rund i, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Rwanda. In practice, the authorities permit the conversion 4 In c lud ing civil servants of fo re ign na t iona l i ty who are employed in the BLEU by specified in te rna t ional organizations. 5 Ind iv idua ls resident in B u r u n d i, Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, or Rwanda are authorized to m a in t a in "assimi- lated" resident accounts. BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG of balances on Bilateral Accounts of the central banks of these three countries into foreign cur- rencies in the official market. Imports and ¡mporl Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Ind iv idu al licenses are required for ( 1) all imports f rom A lban ia, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Hunga ry, Japan, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rum an i a, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet- Nam ,6 (2) a few imports from Luxembourg into Belgium and vice versa, and (3) a number of imports from all other countries.7 The commodi- ties for which ind iv idual licenses are required inc lude m any textile products, certain agricultural products and foods tu f fs, and coal and kerosene. All other commodities, which constitute about four fifths of total imports, are free of license and qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ion; only a simple form com- pleted by the importer giving notification of the payment (payment dec lara t ion) is required when payment is made through an authorized bank. Many commodities subject to ind iv idual licensing are also adm i t ted w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC ( inc lud ing cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and pou l try mea t) are subject to variable import levies wh ich have replaced all previous barr iers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, da iry products, olive oil, most other oils and fa ts, sugar, and specified fru i ts and vege- tables. No exchange control documentation is required for impor ts not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The au thor ized bank is required to make certain that payment is made by one of the methods laid down in the regulations (see section on Prescrip- tion of Currency, above) and that foreign exchange is not acquired until the import pay- ment is due. If these requirements are not ful- 6 Import licenses are issued f ree ly for a large number of commodities when or ig ina t ing in and shipped from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, and Rum an i a. 7 Some imports in the last group do not require an import license when imported from the Ne ther lands or from other EEC countries. 43 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG filled, the authorized bank submits a request to the central exchange control authority for special permission. Prior examination of supporting doc- uments by the IBLC is required for payments exceeding BF 10 million, and exchange control approval is required for payments for imports more than three months before or after the date of customs clearance. Payments for invisibles Payments to convertible area countries for transactions included in Lists A, B, and C may be made through the official exchange market or by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Convertible Account. Supporting documents must in that case be presented to an authorized bank; for payments exceeding BF 10 million and in other exceptional cases prior examination of the supporting documents by the IBLC is required. Payments to convertible area countries for all invisibles (including those in List D) may be made through the free market, by crediting Belgian or Luxembourg francs to a Financial Account, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Payments to bilateral countries (see footnote 2) must be made by crediting Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs to a Bilateral Account related to the country concerned. Foreign and domestic bank- notes may be exported freely. Exports and Export Proceeds The export of all goods to Rhodesia is prohib- ited in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution No. 253(68) of May 29, 1968. The export to Nigeria of arms, ammunition, and other military material is also prohibited. Individual licenses are required for (1) all exports to Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Outer Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam, (2) a few exports from Belgium to Luxembourg and vice versa, and (3) specified exports to all other countries.8 All other exports are free of license; only a simple form completed by the exporter giving notification of the export is required. 8 Some exports in the last group do not require an export license when exported to the Netherlands or to other EEC countries. 44 No exchange control documentation is required for exports not exceeding BF 10,000 in value. The authorized bank is required to make sure that export proceeds are received in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Special authorization is required to collect export proceeds more than six months after the date of exportation. Export pro- ceeds in convertible currencies must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered to an authorized bank, or, alternatively, they may be deposited in a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Cur- rency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Payments for exports to bilateral countries may not be received more than three months before the date foreseen for expor- tation; proceeds from transit transactions must be collected within three months from the date of payment to the foreign supplier. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts in convertible currencies from invisi- bles connected with commercial transactions (Lists A and B—see section on Prescription of Currency, above) must, within eight days of receipt, be surrendered (i.e., sold in the official exchange ma rke t ), or, alternatively, be credited to a Controlled Resident Account in Foreign Currency with an authorized bank if they are to be used later for current payments authorized to be made in these currencies. Receipts in converti- ble currencies from other transactions (Lists C and D) with countries of the convertible area may be retained or sold in the official or the free market. Receipts in all other currencies may be retained or sold in the free market. Proceeds from transactions included in Lists C and D from convertible area countries may also be collected in domestic or foreign banknotes. Foreign and domestic banknotes may be imported freely. Capital All capital transactions with convertible area countries may be carried out freely through the free market, by settlement in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs through the Financial Account of a nonresident, or in domestic or foreign banknotes. Direct investments by enterprises and some capi- tal transfers by individuals, including gifts, family ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution maintenance payments, remittances by emigrants of Belgian or Luxembourg nationality, and inheri- tances, but not transactions of a financial charac- ter, may also be made through the official market, subject to individual license. In addition, incoming capital may be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian or Luxembourg francs to the debit of a Convertible Account. The exchange control authorities may guarantee the repatriation of approved foreign investments made in Belgium- Luxembourg. In that case, capital brought in through the official market may be repatriated through that market. Also eligible for outward transfer through the official market are the amor- tization and redemption proceeds of bonds denominated in Belgian or Luxembourg francs, quoted on a stock exchange in the BLEU, and owned by residents of convertible area countries, provided that such securities had been held at least six months prior to the maturity date. All transactions in securities by residents or nonresi- dents are free, but the financial settlement of such transactions must conform to the general regula- tions. The prior approval of the Minister of Finance is required for issues of securities on the Belgian capital market by nonresidents. Public bids by foreign companies or individuals for the purchase or exchange of shares issued by Belgian companies require the prior approval of the Min- istry of Finance. Inward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be received in convertible currencies through the official market or in Belgian francs through Bilat- eral Accounts; outward payments for capital transactions with bilateral countries must be made only in Belgian francs through Bilateral Accounts. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in the form of coins or bars, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in these forms by residents and nonresidents are unre- stricted and free of license. Settlements in respect of gold transactions with convertible area coun- tries may be made through the free market, through financial accounts in Belgian or Luxem- bourg francs, or in domestic or foreign bank- notes. No customs duties or other charges are BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG levied on imports or exports of gold, except on imports for industrial or handicraft purposes. Licenses are required for imports of semipro- cessed gold; these are issued to professional users, who are authorized to make payment through the official market. Changes during 1969 January 1. The preferential discount rate for export bills was discontinued for sales to EEC countries. March 18. The monetary agreement with the Netherlands of October 21, 1943 became for- mally inoperative. Payments had already been placed on a convertible currency basis in 1958. March 28. A new protocol to the trade agree- ment between Benelux and Bulgaria was signed. It provided for fur ther liberalization of imports. April 4. The IBLC instructed authorized banks to reduce by June 30 the sum of (a) their net spot position in foreign currencies relating to the official marke t, and (b) their advances on Con- vertible Accounts. May 9. The authorization was revoked which had permitted nonbank residents to purchase convertible currencies in the official market up to 30 days before a payment abroad fell due, and meanwhile to deposit such currencies in Con- trolled Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency. Until fu r ther notice, foreign exchange required to settle foreign obligations could be acquired only when payments fell due. June 4. A new protocol to the trade agreement between Benelux and Hungary was signed. It provided for further liberalization of imports. July 1. The issuance of licenses to import raw diamonds against payment through the official market required an undertaking by the importer either to re-export within 30 days finished dia- monds of equivalent value, or to sell such dia- monds within the same period to another dia- mond dealer accepting a similar commitment. As previously, the export was subject to license and the export proceeds had to be sold on the official market. July 10. A new law extended existing regula- tions concerning the public issuance of corporate 45 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BELGIUM-LUXEMBOURG securities to certain related areas. It also strength- ened the penalties for illegal offerings. July 31. The preferential discount rate for export bills was discontinued also for sales to non-EEC countries (see Janua ry 1, above). July 31. A new trade agreement between Bene- lux and Japan was signed, providing for fu r ther liberalization of imports. August 7. The payment of interest or any other remune ra t ion for deposits on Controlled Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency was for- bidden. August 7. The period during which balances on Controlled Resident Accounts in Foreign Cur- rency could be used for payments abroad after a change of pa r i ty was reduced from 6 months to 30 days; balances not used within 30 days after a par i ty change would have to be sold in the official ma rket and any exchange profit in excess of BF 1,000 would have to be passed on to the IBLC, for the account of the Treasury. August 7. The supporting documentation for payments abroad through the official market, when exceeding BF 10 million, was made subject to prior exam ina t ion by the IBLC. August 7. Payments through the official market in respect of trans it transactions were made sub- ject to the same documentation requirements (submission of contracts or invoices) as pay- ments for imports. Previously, no documentation was required. August 14. The Na t ional Bank of Belgium instructed commercial banks to tighten their g ran t ing of credits, especially those to nonresident customers. September 1. The Finnish ma rkka was added to the list of convertible currencies dealt with in the official exchange market. September 9. Two Ministerial Decrees entered into effect which consolidated earlier decrees regu- lating the import and export licensing system. September 10. The introduction of a value- added tax, which had been scheduled to replace the 7 per cent taxe de transmission on January 1, 1970, was postponed until the beginning of 1971. October 1. An agreement between Benelux and Japan was signed in which Japan undertook to restrain exports of certain cotton textiles pre- viously restricted by import quotas. October 1. The IBLC instruction of April 4 was revoked. Separate, lower ceilings were estab- lished for each authorized bank (a) on the net spot position in foreign currencies relating to the official market, and (b) on mail credits on Con- vertible Accounts. November 2. A Royal Decree specified techni- cal criteria with respect to the public character of the issuance of securities. November 28. It was announced that in the near f u t u re quotas for some restricted imports, particularly from Eastern European countries, would be increased and the turnover tax rebates granted to certain exporters would be reduced selectively. 46 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA Exchange Rate System On May 14, 1953, a par value for the Bolivi- ano was established by Bolivia w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. A single, freely fluctuating rate was established by v ir tue of Supreme Decree No. 4538 of December 15, 1956. All exchange transactions are carried out in a free ma rke t, in which the exchange rate has remained stable since Janua ry 1959. On J anu a ry 1, 1963, the boliviano was replaced by the Bo l iv ian peso at a rate of Bs 1,000 = $b 1.00. For operational purposes, the free market is divided into two sectors: the public sector and the private sector. The Monetary Department of the Central Bank of Bolivia operates in the public sector, buying foreign exchange from the Governmen t, the official enterprises, including the Bolivian Mining Corporation (CoM iBOL ), and private export firms, and selling foreign exchange to the Bank ing Department of the Central Bank, the banks, and the Government and its official agencies. The exchange rate of the Monetary Department of the Cen t ral Bank on December 31, 1969 was $b 11.875 buy ing, and $b 11.885 selling, per US$1. All sales of foreign exchange are subject to a 1.6 per cent exchange tax and a 2 per m i ll s tamp tax. Bolivia accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreemen t, as from June 5, 1967. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- ments. Settlements are usually made in U.S. dol- lars or other convertible currencies. Payments between Bolivia and Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the central banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports by public sector agencies require the prior authorization of the Ministry of National Economy; they are not permitted to import commodities also available in Bolivia. Pri- vate imports of certain commodities also require such prior authorization; these goods include live cattle, va r ious foods tuffs, raw cotton, and petro- leum and pe tro leum products. The import of cig- arettes, cement, and certain other locally pro- duced goods is prohibited. All other goods may be impor ted free ly. Exchange to pay for imports may be purchased in the f ree ma rke t; commercial banks m ake exchange available the first business day a f ter receipt of the application. All foreign credits, inc lud ing suppliers' credits, are subject to authorization by the Stablization and Develop- ment Council. Most p r iva te sector imports are subject to a cus toms surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles may be made freely th rough the free ma rke t; commercial banks make exchange available the first business day af ter receipt of the application. Buyers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100, however, must ind ica te the purpose of their purchases. Further- more, p r iva te enterprises are required to deposit in b ank s, for a m i n im um period of one year, all d iv idends declared and profits accrued (net of income t a x e s ), but the payment of profits and d iv idends to nonres ident beneficiaries is not pro- h ib i ted. Res iden ts of Bolivian or foreign national- ity mu st pay a travel tax when leaving the coun- try. The tax is $b 150 for air travel to neighboring countries, $b 60 for overland travel to such coun- tries, $b 300 for air travel to other Latin Ameri- can countries, and $b 400 for air travel to coun- tries outside Latin America. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports are not subject to licensing. All pro- ceeds f rom exports of the public and private sec- tors must be sold to the Central Bank, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures undertaken to effect the export. Furthermore, private mining firms mus t, when surrendering the export pro- ceeds, deposit in a Bolivian bank 1.5 per cent, 2 per cent, or 3 per cent of the value of their exports or foreign sales for a period of at least one year. The ma rke t ing of minerals is a state 47 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOLIVIA monopoly; in practice, COMIBOL exports its own production and the Mining Bank that of the small and medium-sized mines of the private sector. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange derived from invisibles may be sold in the free market. Capital Outward capital transfers by residents or non- residents are free of control and may be made through the free marke t; inward capital transfers also may be made through that market. Commer- ical banks make exchange available the first busi- ness day after receipt of the application. Buyers of foreign exchange in excess of US$100 must indicate the purpose of the purchase. All foreign credits, including suppliers' credits, to govern- ment agencies and autonomous entities, and official guarantees of such credits, are subject to prior authorization by the Stabilization and Development Council. Foreign investments in Bolivia, except those involving petroleum and mining, are governed by the provisions of the Investment Law of Octo- ber 19, 1965, which guarantees the free converti- bility and repatriation of profits and amortized capital. Companies established before the passage of this law may also benefit from its provisions. The law is administered by the Institute for the Promotion of Investment in Bolivia ( IN P I BO L ). Investments in petroleum and m in ing are governed by the Petroleum Code and the M in ing Code. Gold By virtue of Supreme Decree No. 07771 of August 2, 1966, imports and exports of gold and domestic trading in gold are subject to regulation by the Central Bank. The Decree also designated the Central Bank to purchase, for its use or for export in the form of gold bars, the total national production of gold. The Central Bank purchases gold from COMIBOL and one large mine, while the Mining Bank buys from the smaller producers on behalf of the Central Bank; the Central Bank's purchases as well as those of the Mining Bank are made at the equivalent of US$35 an ounce. The Mining Bank is authorized to sell a 48 specified quan t i ty of gold annually to domestic jewelers and dentists and is obliged to sell the remainder to the Central Bank. Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form other than bars in Bolivia. Exports and imports of gold other than gold jewelry are not normally permitted. Changes during 1969 January 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Mexico went into effect. February 26. Decree No. 08667 prohibited government departments and autonomous state agencies from importing goods that are available in the domestic market. March 12. Supreme Decree No. 08315 of April 9, 1968, which had prohibited imports of passenger automobiles and station wagons until Ju ly 31, 1969, was revoked by Supreme Decree No. 08695. Such imports became subject to both ad valorem customs duties and minimum valua- tions. The range of ad valorem duties was raised from 100-155 per cent to 130-180 per cent. March 12. The travel tax (a person a trip) imposed by Supreme Decree No. 08033 of July 5, 1967 was raised by Supreme Decree No. 08692 as follows: for air travel to neighboring countries from $b 50 to $b 150 ($b 60 for travel overland); for travel by air to other Latin Ameri- can countries from $b 120 to $b 300; for travel by air to countries outside Latin America from $b 240 to $b 400. Exempt was travel by diplo- mats, personnel of international organizations, government officials, students, foreign tourists, and children under five years of age. May 2. The consular invoice fee of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports was abolished. The consular legalization fee for invoices remained US$10 per bill of lading. May 25. A Presidential Decree banned imports of cement. June 27. Decree No. 08816 reduced import duties and established new minimum valuations on imports of passenger automobiles and station wagons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 22. All banking and foreign exchange operations were suspended until Monday, Octo- ber 27, to prevent foreign exchange speculation. October 25. A Presidential Decree provided, inter alia, for the following measures: ( 1) all proceeds from exports of the public and private sectors were to be surrendered to the Central Bank, with the exception of reasonable amounts deducted for foreign exchange expenditures unde r taken to effect the export; ( 2) public and private sector entities were not to be granted new exemptions from import duties other than exemp- tions stipulated in international agreements and treaties; ( 3) private m in ing companies were required to deposit in banks, at the time of sur- render of export proceeds, and for a minimum period of one year, from 1.5 to 3.0 per cent of the value of their total exports or foreign sales effected up to December 31, 1970; (4) enterprises other than m in ing and petroleum firms were required until March 31, 1970 to deposit in banks, for a minimum period of one BOLIVIA year, either at once or in 12 monthly install- ments, 2 per cent of their paid-up capital plus reserves as at December 31, 1968; and (5) private enterprises were henceforth obliged to deposit in banks, for a minimum period of one year, all dividends and profits (net of income taxes) and to postpone their transfer to any for- eign beneficiaries until the mandatory deposit period had expired. October 25. Commercial banks were instructed not to sell foreign exchange to the public until the first business day after which applications were received. November 6. Supreme Decree No. 08985 approved Bolivia's participation in the Andean G roup December 10. Export taxes on minerals were raised by about 25 per cent to a range of approx- imately nil to 19 per cent. December 10. A state monopoly over the mar- ke t ing of minerals was established. 49 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BOTSWANA Exchange System Botswana's currency is the South African Rand, the par value of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Botswana is part of the Sterling Area and is regarded as forming part of the South A f r ican exchange control territory.1 The Ministry of Finance controls all external currency transactions. Transfers of funds w i th in the Sterling Area are normally approved if the funds were generated in Botswana and the transferor is a bona fide resident of Botswana; where the export of funds to a country outside the Sterling Area is con- cerned, the approval is given in appropriate cases in agreement with the South African Reserve Bank. Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval, but certain types of such trans- 1 For purposes of control over transactions in securi- ties, residents of Botswana are not regarded as residents of South Africa. fers are free ly permitted by open general licenses. Botswana is a member of the Southern Afr ican Customs Un ion by v ir tue of the Customs Union Agreement of 1910,2 and there are no import restrictions on goods of South African origin. Fur- thermore, goods of domestic origin may move freely between Botswana and Rhodesia by virtue of a customs agreement of 1956, provided that they are not intended for re-export.3 Imports originating outside South Africa and Rhodesia are usually licensed along the lines of South Africa's import regulations. Changes during 1969 August 13. The Fund noted that the South Afri- can rand is the currency of Botswana, and that the par va lue of the South African rand, as established on February 14, 1961, is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand. 2 A revised Customs Union Agreement was signed on December 11, 1969 and came into force on March 1, 1970. 3 On Janua ry 9, 1970, it was announced that imports of tobacco and beer from Rhodesia would be prohibited w i th effect from March 1, 1970. 50 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Exchange System On July 14, 1948, a par value for the Brazilian C ruze i rol was established by Brazil with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Brazil follows a flexible exchange rate policy. Exchange transactions are carried out by the Central Bank, the Bank of Brazil, the authorized banks, and the exchange houses. The Central Bank operates in exchange in Rio de Janeiro, and the Bank of Brazil unde r takes exchange transactions in the name of the Central Bank in other parts of the country. The exchange houses deal only in banknotes and travelers checks in a "manual market." Un i fo rm i ty between the rates quoted by the Bank of Brazil and the effective rates of the authorized banks is ensured by the practice of the monetary authori- ties of standing ready to purchase foreign exchange from the banks and to sell exchange to the banks on an adequate basis, for approved transactions; such purchases and sales are made at the official rate. On December 31, 1969, the buy ing and selling rates quoted by the monetary authorities to the public were NCr$4.325 and NCr$4.350 per US$1, respectively; those quoted by the authorized banks for transactions other than in bankno tes or travelers checks were approximately the same (see Table of Exchange Rates, below). Exchange rates for other curren- cies ( inc lud ing "agreement currencies" used for settlements with bilateral agreement countries) are based on the U.S. dollar rates in Brazil and the dollar quotations for such currencies in inter- national markets. On the buy ing side other effective rates result from the following arrangements: (a) Special regulations apply to coffee exports (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ), (b) A 15 per cent contribution ("contribution quota" or quota de contribuiç ào) is levied on proceeds from exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste, (c) A 5 per cent contribution is levied on pro- ceeds from exports of cocoa derivatives. 1 On May 15, 1970 the mone tary un it introduced on February 13, 1967 ceased to be referred to as the "new cruzeiro.*' It was henceforth called the "cruzeiro." On the selling side, a different effective rate arises from the provision of the Foreign Invest- ment Law (see section on Payments for Invisi- bles, below), which specifies that the sum of profits and dividends effectively remitted to per- sons and companies resident abroad is subject to a supplementary income tax when the average of actual remittances in any three-year period, from 1963 onward, is in excess of 12 per cent a year of registered capital and reinvestment. The Bank of Brazil, acting on its own behalf or on behalf of the Central Bank, carries out a large proportion of all exchange transactions. The following arrangements assure the Bank of Brazil of a large portion of the country's foreign exchange receipts: (1) Petrobras surrenders its entire foreign exchange proceeds from certain ex- ports of petroleum on the basis of an agreement that grants it special fac i l i t ies for imports of crude oil and petroleum by-products. (2) Proceeds from exports of iron ore by the Vale do Rio Doce Company are surrendered to the Bank of Brazil, although there is no legal requirement that receipts from these exports be negotiated with or transferred to the Bank. All public sector agen- cies must carry out their exchange operations through the Bank of Brazil. Furthermore, export- ers in regions not served by banks other than the Bank of Brazil sell their exchange proceeds to the Bank. The Bank of Brazil sells foreign exchange for the requirements of the Government at the exchange rate prevailing on the date when a transaction is made. Like the other commercial banks, the Bank of Brazil also sells foreign exchange for payments in respect of a large number of imports, including crude oil and petro- leum products, wheat, newsprint, fertilizers, and the requ iremen ts of the Vale do Rio Doce Com- pany. Moreover, the Bank of Brazil handles for the account of the Central Bank all exchange transactions in bilateral currencies (either direct or by transferr ing exchange to authorized banks or vice versa) and exchange transactions related to imports under U.S. aid. Finally, the Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank, supplies foreign exchange to authorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an oversold position of up to 51 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL US$500,000 and limited to 50 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank con- cerned to its customers. All free market transactions in foreign exchange other than those undertaken by the Bank of Brazil are effected direct through author- ized banks. They may not maintain an oversold position in excess of US$500,000 on any working day; included in this limit is their "manual market" position (banknotes and travelers checks). The banks are permitted to sell foreign exchange to each other, provided that they are situated in the same trading center; transfers between branches of the same bank in d ifferent trading centers are also allowed, subject to certain conditions. The "manual market" is conducted mainly by exchange houses, which are not per- mitted to maintain a sold position and are not entitled to obtain exchange cover from the mone- tary authorities. Administration of Control The National Monetary Council is responsible for the formu la t ion of over-all foreign exchange policy. The control system is operated by the Exchange Operations Department of the Central Bank (GECAM) under the general direction of the Board of Directors of the Central Bank and the National Monetary Council. Coffee exports are regulated by the Brazilian Coffee Ins t i tu te (IBC). The National Council of Foreign Trade (CONCEX) formulates foreign trade policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the Council's exec- utive organ for dealing with foreign countries, while the Foreign Trade Department of the Bank of Brazil (CACEX) implements the Council's decisions within Brazil. The Foreign Trade Department issues import licenses, when required, as well as export and import certificates (guias de exportaç âo and guias de importaç ào), and vérifies price quotations, weights, measures, classifications, and types in import operations that are subject to license. The Customs Policy Council (CPA) decides on changes in customs duties or in their application, and is required to confirm or modify the m in imum import values established for cus- toms valuation purposes by CACEX. 52 The Department for the Control and Registra- tion of Foreign Capital (FIRCE) in the Central Bank is in charge of processing the registration of foreign capital for the purpose of its repatriation and of the remittance of income therefrom; it also approves the terms of foreign financing for imports and authorizes capital inflows under the Foreign Investment Law. Prescription of Currency Prescription of currency is in principle related to the country of origin of imports or the country of final destination of exports, unless otherwise specifically prescribed or authorized. Settlements with payments agreement countries are made through the relevant agreement account. These accounts are maintained in clearing dollars with Bulgaria, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Poland, Rumania, and Yugoslavia; and in clearing sterling with Iceland. On the basis of provisions for the settlement with certain nonclearing countries of outstanding balances or transactions under bilateral agree- ments now terminated, a few payments with these countries are still settled in agreement dollars. All trade with Bolivia, except Brazilian exports of coffee and cocoa, is settled in cruzeiros under a border trade agreement. Settlements with other countries with which Brazil has no payments agreements or arrangements are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible currencies. Reciprocal credit agreements have been signed with Chile, Mexico, and Peru but are not yet in operation. Imports and import Payments The import control legislation previously dis- tinguished two categories of imports: (1) com- modities in the General Category, which were free of quantitative restrictions and licensing, and (2) commodities in the Special Category, which required licenses and were subject to restrictions. Since March 1, 1967, however, all commodities listed in the former Special Category have been governed by the import control regime applicable to General Category commodities. Many of the former Special Category items have since been made subject to surcharges on the existing cus- toms duties. Special arrangements described below apply to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution certain commodities, and the import of new auto- mobiles and recreational boats of a value over US$3,500 is prohibited. For all other imports, the administrative procedures are as follows. Importers require one of two documents: (1) an import license for goods that benefit from spe- cial tariff concessions and goods imported with foreign financing or (2) an import certificate (guia de imporlaç âo). For the bulk of imports, an importer must secure from CACEX an import certificate which is issued subject to the presentation of data on the foreign price of the commodity and any other information CACEX may consider necessary. As a rule, import certificates are issued freely and without undue delay. The import certificate enti- tles the importer to obtain a visa from the Bra- zilian consular authorities abroad which is re- quired for shipment of the goods. The import certificate is valid for 120 days. The following rules apply with respect to the closing of exchange contracts for payment for imports. As a general rule, imports may be cleared through customs before an exchange con- tract is closed. However, the max imum period for which payments for imports may be delayed must not exceed 180 days from the date of shipment. This period may be extended to 360 days in exceptional circumstances at the discretion of the Central Bank. For imports listed in the Annex to Decree-Law No. 398 of December 30, 1968, and of automobiles and light utility trucks and station wagons, the conclusion of an exchange contract is obligatory prior to the issue of an import docu- ment; this provision is intended to discourage the use of foreign commercial credits for the financ- ing of imports of commodities that are considered less essential. Spot contracts may be closed if the contract is intended to settle drafts, at sight or on maturity, and the appropriate shipping documents are presented. Spot exchange contracts must be settled within 2 working days. Forward contracts, for up to 180 days, may be closed when a letter of credit is being opened, or to pay for goods already shipped. Letters of credit must be opened within 5 working days from the date of the exchange contract. Commercial banks ordinarily require a guarantee deposit for their own protec- tion for forward exchange contracts; the amount BRAZIL of the deposit varies with the credit standing of the customer. When the contracts are liquidated, guarantee deposits may be used for payment of the foreign exchange concerned. Interest at about 2 per cent a month is normally charged on the portion of the forward contract not covered by a deposit. Special procedures are applicable to certain imports of petroleum and petroleum products and of wheat. For petroleum and specified petroleum by-products, Petrobras concludes a "global for- eign exchange contract" with the Bank of Brazil once every four months for its estimated require- ments. The contract is concluded at the official market rate prevailing 10 days prior to the clos- ing of the contract. At the same time, the Bank of Brazil concludes a foreign exchange contract with the Central Bank, to cover its position, for an amount equivalent to the value of the "global contract" at the exchange rate at which the Cen- tral Bank sells foreign exchange to commercial banks; the rate applicable is again the one pre- vailing 10 days prior to the conclusion of the "global contract." Individual exchange contracts for petroleum shipments made dur ing the life of the global contract are then closed at the exchange rate on which the latter is based. Pay- ment by Petrobras against such contracts is made in the following manner: 30 per cent of the value of an individual contract is deposited 15 days from the date of shipment, and the remaining 70 per cent 110 days af ter shipment. The liquidation of each individual contract 110 days after ship- ment is accompanied by the liquidation, up to an equivalent value, of the exchange contract signed by the Bank of Brazil with the Central Bank; the liquidation of this latter exchange contract also takes place at the exchange rate at which the contract was originally signed. Certain imports are subject to customs sur- charges imposed by Decree-Law No. 333 or Decree-Law No. 398. Payments for invisibles Payments for current invisibles related to income from foreign capital, royalties, and techni- cal assistance are governed by the provisions of the Foreign Investment Law. In addition to cer- tain restrictions on remittances stipulated in that 53 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL law, limits are placed, by virtue of an internal Central Bank measure of September 19, 1965, on remittances of all royalties and technical assist- ance fees (see be low). Authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely up to the equivalent of US$300 for personal remittances abroad. The sale of foreign exchange for travel abroad is sub- ject to special regulations as described below. Payments for other current invisibles require the approval of GECAM, which authorizes remit- tances freely, subject to the presentation of sup- porting documents as evidence that a bona fide current transaction is involved. Sales of foreign exchange to meet personal expenses connected with travel abroad are per- mitted up to US$1,000 a person a trip, w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank, on the following terms: ( 1) in banknotes up to US$100, and (2) in payment orders or travelers checks for the remainder. Applications for purchases of travel exchange in excess of US$1,000 must be submitted to the Central Bank, which considers each case on its merits. Amounts in excess of US$1,000, when authorized, may be taken up in the form of payment orders only. Foreign resi- dents in transit in Brazil are permitted to pur- chase foreign currency up to the equivalent of the amount they sold during the period of their stay in Brazil; however, purchases in excess of 30 per cent of the amount previously sold require the approval of the Central Bank. Each purchase transaction is registered and the records of these operations, which must contain the name of the clients, are submitted daily to the Central Bank. The sale of tickets for international air travel to residents of Brazil is made against local currency upon presentation of valid passports. Remittances abroad of foreign capital, income from foreign investments and reinvestments, and remittances in respect of royalties and technical assistance are governed by Decree No. 55762 of February 17, 1965, which contains the regula- tions implementing the Foreign Investment Law (Law No. 4131, as amended by Law No. 4390). Remittances are allowed only when the foreign capital concerned, including reinvestments, and the contracts for patents and trademarks, and for technical, scientific, and administrative assistance, are registered at FIRCE in accordance with the established rules (see section on Capital, below). 54 Remittances are normally authorized in the cur- rency of registration. Remittances of interest on loans and credits and of related amortization pay- ments are permitted freely in accordance with the terms stipulated in the respective contract and recorded in the Certificate of Registration. A pro- gressive supplementary income tax is levied on such remittances of earnings on foreign capital if the ir average over a three-year period exceeds 12 per cent of the registered capital and reinvest- ments. For foreign capital that produces goods or services for luxu ry consumption, remittances of profits are limited to 8 per cent per annum of registered capital. Remittances of royalties are not permitted by a branch or subsidiary estab- lished in Brazil to its head office abroad when at least 50 per cent of the local firm's voting capital is directly or indirectly held by the foreign princi- pal firm or when the majority of the firm's capital in Brazil belongs to the recipients of the royalties abroad. Moreover, by virtue of an internal Cen- tral Bank measure of September 19, 1965, remittances of royalties by nonsubsidiary compa-? nies and of all technical assistance fees are lim- ited to specified percentages, ranging from 1 per cent to 5 per cent of gross receipts from the sale or manu fac tu re of given products (classified by type of produc t ion) for which royalty and techni- cal assistance payments are incurred abroad. The percentages are the same as those used in deter- m in ing the max imum deductions for such pay- ments when de te rm in ing taxable income under the taxation laws governing foreign investment income. Letters of credit opened for payment in incon- vertible or "agreement" currencies for imports contracted on an f.o.b. basis must contain a clause requ ir ing that the goods be transported on a ship under the flag of Brazil or the exporting country. Travelers may take out domestic and foreign banknotes freely. Exports and Export Proceeds Under the provisions of Law No. 5025 of June 10, 1966, exports, with only minor excep- tions, are free of licensing. Accordingly, exports are grouped into the following three categories: (1) free exports, (2) exports subject to control, and (3) prohibited exports. The first category ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution includes the large majority of exports. The second category is limited to those goods that are con- sidered to require control in the national interest. The commodities included in the th ird category are exceptional cases regulated by specific laws. Ex- ports of coffee are subject to au tho r iza t ion by the Brazilian Coffee Ins t i tu te. The Brazilian Coffee Institute does not grant the authorization to export coffee unless the sale contract is based on a price per pound that is at least equal to the m in imum registration price (in U.S. dollars per pound, f.o.b.) fixed f rom time to time by the Ins t i tu te. The m i n im um registration price varies w i th the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of sh ipmen t, and the actual contract price may not be lower by more than US$0.01 per pound for coffee exports of higher qua l i ty and may not be lower by more than US$0.015 per pound for coffee exports of lower qua l i ty. Exporters of coffee are required to surrender w i thout compensation a portion ("con tr ibu t ion quota") of their foreign exchange rece ip ts ;2 the cruzeiro equ iva lent of th is portion is transferred to a Coffee Defense Fund. For the export pro- ceeds in excess of the con tr ibu t ion quota, export- ers receive ( 1) payment of a. fixed cruzeiro amount per bag 3 de term ined from t ime to t ime by the Brazilian Coffee Institute and (2) pay- ment of the f u ll cruzeiro equ iva lent at the free market rate of any foreign exchange received in excess of the m i n im um registration price. To the extent that the foreign price obtained by the exporter is lower than the m i n im um registration price, the cruzeiro payment to the exporter is reduced; the reduction is calculated at the pre- vailing selling rate. Thus, the effective exchange rate for coffee exports depends on (i) the cru- zeiro payment per bag, (ii) the m in imum registra- tion price, ( i i i) the actual price received (f.o.b. Brazil, in U.S. dollars per p o u n d ), and ( i v) the free market rate. Based on payments per bag of coffee of NCr$ 146.40, NCr$135.50, NCr$ 130.00, NCr$113.50, and NCr$105.20 for d ifferent grades and ports of sh ipmen t, and corre- of US$0.445, US$0.445, US$0.435, US$0.405, spending m i n im um registration prices per pound 2 The amount of the con t r ibu t ion depends upon the applicable m i n im um registration price, the fixed cruze iro amount paid per bag, and the cu r r ent b u y i ng rate of the Bank of Brazil. 3 The cruzeiro amount per bag varies w i th the qua l i ty of the coffee and the port of sh ipmen t. BRAZIL and US$0.390, respectively, prevailing on Decem- ber 31, 1969, and on the assumption that the foreign price obtained by the exporter was equal to the m in imum registration price, the effective rates for proceeds from coffee exports on that date were NCr$2.492, NCr$2.306, NCr$2.264, NCr$2.123, and NCr$2.043 per US$1. Proceeds of exports of soluble coffee are not subject to the contribution quota and the exporter receives his fu ll proceeds converted at the prevailing free market rate. Exports of soluble coffee to the United States, however, are subject to an export tax expressed in cruzeiros and equivalent to US$0.13 a pound. In accordance with the provisions of various Resolutions of the Brazilian Coffee Institute, a price gua ran tee system for exports of Brazilian coffee is ma in ta ined. Under these provisions a foreign impor ter of Brazilian coffee is entitled to compensation from the Institute, under specified conditions, for any reduction in the price of Bra- z i l ian coffee below the level at which the import- er's purchase took place. For any shipment date, the guarantee period at present is 30 days. The compensation to be received by the foreign impor ter is to equal the d ifference between (1) the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York on the date of export registration at the Brazilian Coffee Ins t i tu te, and (2) the lowest similar price calcu- lated on the basis of its moving average for peri- ods of 10 consecutive ma rket days, for the period starting on the date of shipment and ending on the day when the respective guarantee period ter- m ina tes. The compensation takes the form of a credit th at the importer may use in payment for new direct purchases of coffee from Brazil. The credits must be used w i th in 90 days from the date of issue. The proceeds from all other exports are also sold at freely negotiated exchange rates, but exporters of cocoa beans and cocoa paste are required to surrender without compensation 15 per cent of the ir exchange proceeds; and export- ers of cocoa derivatives (bu t ter, cake, and powder) are requ ired to surrender without com- pensation 5 per cent of exchange proceeds. The cruzeiro equivalent of these deductions is used to finance a program of price support and plantation improvement for cocoa. CACEX may, through the Fund for Export 55 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Financing (FINEX), finance exports of con- sumer durable goods and capital goods against payment at med ium term and long term, pro- vided that the suppliers' credit does not exceed 80 per cent of the invoiced value. Credits granted for more than one year may be refinanced by CACEX for the fu ll amount payable, provided that the exporter has given the necessary guaran- tees and that the maturity of the loan is consid- ered compatible with the value of the exports and the terms for suppliers' credits prevailing in world markets. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds from current invisibles are sold through the Bank of Brazil or the authorized banks at the prevailing market rate. Travelers checks and foreign banknotes are sold in the "manual market." Travelers may bring in domes- tic and foreign currency notes freely. Capital Capital inflows covered by Central Bank Reso- lution No. 63 or SUMOC Instruction No. 289 (see below) are subject to ceilings. Most other borrowing abroad must be approved by the For- eign Loans Commission (CEMPEX). Otherwise, inward transfers are unrestricted and free of con- trol. For the purpose of repatriation and the remittance of income, however, foreign capital and the reinvestment of profits on foreign capital must be registered with FIRCE. Foreign capital is defined as (1) goods, machinery, and equip- ment which have entered the country without an initial corresponding expenditure of foreign exchange and which are to be used to produce goods or to render services, and (2) financial and monetary resources brought into the country for investment in economic pursuits, provided that, in either case, the owner is a person or firm resident or domiciled abroad or with headquar- ters abroad. Foreign capital is classified, for purposes of registration, as direct investments or loans, whether imported in the form of money or goods, and it includes reinvested profits from foreign capital. Direct investment is defined as that for- eign capital which constitutes part of corporate capital and participates directly in the risk inher- 56 ent in an economic undertaking. Foreign capital that is not part of the corporate capital of any enterprise and that does not participate directly in capital risk is considered to be a loan. Any loan obtained to purchase capital goods abroad, whether conceded by the manufac turer himself or a third party, is considered to be financing (mostly suppliers' credit). Loans are considered to be cash loans when monetary or financial resources are brought into Brazil. To register foreign capital, it is necessary to prove that the capital has entered Brazil. The registration of capital is made in the currency in which it entered the country. For financed imports and for investments made in the form of goods, registration is made in the currency of the country of domicile of the creditor or investor (or of its head office) or, in special circumstances, in the currency of the country of origin of the goods or of the credit. To register loans that are made in foreign currency it is necessary to certify that the interest rate corresponds to that prevailing in the country of the lender, and that the prices of the imported goods correspond to the prices of comparable goods in the country of origin. If FIRCE approves the terms of financing, it issues a certificate of authorization to CACEX. The latter, in turn, examines the application in the light of the price and essentiality of the proposed import and of the availability of similores nocio- nois. If CACEX approves the application, it grants an import license. The registration of direct investment is subject to the following rules: The capital that enters or has entered Brazil is registered in foreign cur- rency. Reinvestments are defined as profits of companies established in Brazil and accrued to persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad; such profits must have been reinvested in the same companies that produced them or in another sector of the Brazilian economy. The reg- istration of reinvested profits is made simultane- ously in Brazilian currency and in the currency of the country to which the profits could have been remitted. The conversion is calculated at the average exchange rate prevailing between the date on which the profits were earned, or appeared on the balance sheet in the case of a company, and the date of their reinvestment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution To provide a more normal basis for the supp ly of working capital in Brazil by foreign investors, the Bank of Brazil under the provisions of SUMOC Instruction No. 289, and subject to cer- tain ceilings, enters into repurchase arrangements which provide that the seller of foreign exchange may subsequently repurchase equivalent foreign exchange, free of restrictions, guarantee deposits, or financial charges, and that the procedure for registration to sa t isfy the requ iremen ts of the For- eign Inves tment Law will be both immediate and automatic. The repurchase must be a spot trans- action in the free market with any authorized bank (or with the Bank of Brazil if it so elects) and does not involve an exchange rate guarantee; the repurchase rights may be exercised in whole or in part af ter 60 days but will expire a f ter 360 days. Moreover, to fac i l i ta te the use of foreign cred- its by Brazilian enterprises, Central Bank Resolu- tion No. 63 authorizes private commercial and investment banks to take up foreign credits for relending to the domestic private sector for the purpose of f inanc ing fixed or working capital. The safeguards against excessive use of such credits include limitations on the foreign obliga- tions that each bank may assume (related to the terms of the credit and the size of the b ank) and the provision that the u l t ima te borrower must agree to assume the exchange risk involved in these transactions. The certificate of registration of the loan for the purposes of the Foreign Investment Law is furn ished by FIRCE upon application. Other transfers to foreign countries require authorization by GECAM, which considers appli- cations on their merits. Exchange transactions concerning private capital are effected through an authorized bank or the Bank of Brazil at freely negotiated rates. BRAZIL To provide coordination of borrowing abroad, Decree No. 65071 of August 29, 1969, created a Commission on Foreign Loans (CEMPEX), an interministerial body charged with exam in ing requests for authorizations of loans from govern- ment agencies and international credit organiza- tions, and of loans involving Brazilian public entities, states and municipalities, and mixed enterprises, and those w i th the direct or indirect guarantee of the Treasury. However, the proce- dures affec t ing registration and authorization of inflows of foreign capital had not by the end of 1969 been significantly affected. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Brazil. Gold m in ing is ruled by Law No. 4425 of November 2, 1964. Residents other than the monetary authorities and licensed industrial users are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold (other than alloys for dental use) abroad unless special permission is obtained from the Central Bank. SUMOC Instruction No. 27 stipulates that producers of gold must sell 20 per cent of their ou tput to the National Treasury, through the Bank of Brazil, at the official market price, i.e., at US$35 an ounce; the other 80 per cent would remain at the free disposal of the person concerned. This provision has never been enforced, however, and the monetary authorities do not deal in gold. The domestic negotiation of newly mined gold, which takes place at free market prices, is subject to a mining tax of 8 per cent, a turnover tax of 17 per cent, and a con- sumption tax of 18 per cent. The import of gold is subject to the issuance of an import certificate by CACEX and is free of customs duty. Exports of gold coins and gold bars are prohibited and the export of gold in any other form (except jew- elry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler) requires an export license. 57 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1969) (New cruzeiros per U.S. dollar) 2.043-2.492 Buying (Official Market Rate for Cruzeiro Payment a Bag and Minimum Regis- tration Price)* Coffee exports effected at a price equal to the m in imum registration price, for payment at sight. 3.68 (Official Market Rate less 15% Contribution Quota) Exports of cocoa beans and cocoa paste. 4.11 (Official Market Rate less 5% Contribution Quota)* Exports of cocoa derivatives. 4.325 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 4.325 (Official Market Rate) All other export proceeds.6 Other receipts. Changes during 1969 During 1969 the cruzeiro payment per bag (132 pounds) of the various grades of coffee was changed on seven occasions (on March 21, May 9, June 20, September 10, October 1, October 17, and November 13) and the m in imum registration prices were changed five times (on September 10, October 1, October 17, November 13, and December 17). The effec t ive exchange rates ap- plicable to proceeds from coffee exports were changed accordingly. January 1. A new arrangement for payments in respect of petroleum imports became effective. Previously, the effec t ive rate for imports by Petrobras of petroleum and specified petroleum by-products was determined by quar ter ly contracts with the Bank of Brazil that guaranteed the appli- cation of the exchange rate prevailing at the be- ginning of each calendar quarter to all operations during the respective quarter. January 11. Decree-Law No. 421 provided that only Brazilian nationals or foreign nationals permanently resident in Brazil could purchase 4 The fixed cruzeiro payment per bag and the m i n im um registration price (in U.S. dollars per pound) va ry w i th the quality of the coffee and the port of shipment. 5 Central Bank Resolution No. 126 of October 17, 1969 suspended temporarily the 5 per cent contribution quota on exports of cocoa derivatives equ iva lent to 250,000 bags (of 132 pounds each) of cocoa beans. 6 Exports of soluble coffee to the Un i ted States are sub- ject to an export tax expressed in cruzeiros and e q u i v a l e nt to US$0.13 a pound. 7 A different effective rate applies to certain rem i t- tances of profits and dividends (see section on Paymen ts for Invisibles, above). 58 Selling 4.350 ("Manual Market" Rate) Foreign banknotes and travelers checks. 4.350 (Official Market Rate) Imports. Invisibles.7 Capital. rural property in Brazil. Limitations were also imposed on the acreage that foreign nationals could own. February 4. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$3.805 and NCr$3.830 per US$1 to NCr$3.905 and NCr$3.930 per US$1, respec- tively. February 6. CONCEX Resolution No. 46 sim- plified the export procedure by introducing the export certificate (guia de exportaç âo) which was to be issued by CACEX in lieu of the guia de embarque previously issued by the Central Bank and the export license supplied by CACEX. Exports of coffee were exempt from the provi- sions of this regulation and continued to be gov- erned by regulations of the Brazilian Coffee Insti- tu te. The prior approval of CACEX was still required for exports payable through bilateral accounts or in inconvertible currencies, those w i thout exchange cover or on consignment, and re-exports. CACEX was authorized to establish the minimum prices that may be charged by exporters, and the date on which the Resolution would come into force. February 27. C.B. Circular No. 5 consolidated the regulations governing cruzeiro accounts held by nonresidents. March 5. Decree-Law No. 491 provided tax incentives for exports of manufactured products. March 10. Decree-Law No. 494 prohibited the acquisition of rural property by any juridical or ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution physical person of foreign n a t ion a l i ty and not domiciled in Brazil. March 12. GECAM Announcement No. 99 provided th a t, as a general rule, the rem i t tance of interest on import draf ts payable less than 180 days from the date of shipment would not be authorized. Rem i t tances of interest on t ime d r a f ts for periods of up to 360 days f rom the date of shipment were to be permitted only in respect of the period exceeding the in i t ial 180 days. How- ever, the remittance of interest on d r a f ts m a t u r i ng in less than 180 days from the date of sh ipment could be pe rm i t ted at the discretion of CACEX in respect of cer ta in imports. The Announ c em ent also provided that the rates of in terest could not be higher th an those in e f fect on the da te of issue of the impo rt ce r t i f ica te or license in the coun t ry in whose cu r rency the opera t ion was carried ou t. March 12. CACEX Announ c em ent No. 264 made applications for exchange to settle t ime drafts in excess of a term of 180 days and up to 360 days f rom the day of sh ipment subject to the following provisions: (1) they were to be accepted only for imports of raw materials and parts and accessories for the importer's own use and capital goods of which there is no similar na t ional pro- duction; (2) interest would be counted as from the 181st day from the date of shipment; (3) applica- tions were to be submitted along with the import certificate (or license); and (4) applications re- lating to import certificates or licenses du r ing the period May 21, 1968, when Central Bank Reso- lution No. 91 was promulgated, and March 12, 1969 would be subject to re -exam ina t ion. March 12. GECAM Announcement No. 100 provided that paymen ts contracted for under t ime draf ts w i th a term of over 360 days from the date of sh ipmen t, and covered by import certifi- cates, licenses, or declarations issued between January 3, 1968 and May 21, 1968 ( the dates of Central Bank Resolutions Nos. 82 and 9 1 ), mu st be registered w i th FIRCE. March 12. Central Bank Resolution No. 112 established a m in imum ma tu r i ty of commercial bank loans under Resolution 63 of August 21, 1967, at six months with no upper l im i t. Pre- viously, the m a x im um l im it had been one year without a lower l im i t. BRAZIL March 19. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$3.905 and NCr$3.93 per US$1 to NCr$3.975 and NCr$4.00 per US$1, respec- tively. March 26. GECAM Announcement No. 102 provided that payment of interest on time d ra f ts of up to 360 days f rom the date of sh ipment would be pe rm i t ted only if effected simultane- ously w i th the settlement of the principal. April 7. CACEX Announcement No. 265 of March 19 regu la ted the en t ry in to force of CONCEX Reso lu t ion No. 46 of February 6, 1969, which had provided for the replacement of pre- v ious ly used documen ts for export w i th the export ce r t i f ica te or guia de exportaç âo. April 10. A P res iden t ial Decree prohibited fede ral gove rnment agencies from s ign ing con- t rac ts w i th fore ign firms to supply technical serv- ices t h at could be provided by B raz i l ian firms. April 30. Decree-Law No. 557 imposed an export tax equ iva lent to US$0.13 a pound on expor ts of soluble coffee to the United States. The am o u nt of the tax, specified in cruzeiros, wou ld be ad jus ted in accordance w i th movements in the exchange rate so as to ma in ta in the tax at a constant level in terms of foreign exchange. April 30. The bilateral paymen ts agreement w i th the U.S.S.R. was terminated. May 8. Decree-Law No. 569-69 granted tariff exemption for a period of 30 months for imports of raw ma ter ia ls, equ ipmen t, and components for the steel indus try. May 9. Oral ins t ruc t ions from the Central Bank to bank ing and commercial institutions placed l im i ts on new capital inflows under Cen- tral Bank Resolution No. 63 of August 21, 1967, and SUMOC Ins truc t ion No. 289 of January 14, 1965. Under Resolution No. 63, capital inflows were not to exceed a level which would cause the level of ma tu r i t ies fa l l ing due in any one month to exceed US$25 m i l l ion, and the value of new Ins t ruc t ion No. 289 operations in each week was not to exceed the average amount of liquidations of such transactions dur ing the preceding four weeks. No restrictions were placed on capital inflows under Law No. 4131, since these do not 59 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL require a Central Bank guarantee to cover repa- triation of principal and interest at ma tur i ty. directly by the Central Bank rather than by the Bank of Brazil. May 13. The buy ing and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$3.975 and NCr$4.00 per US$1 to NCr$4.025 and NCr$4.05 per US$1, respec- tively. June 25. Decree No. 64734 revoked Decree No. 59430 of October 27, 1966, which had required foreign suppliers of crude oil and major petroleum products, under specified conditions, to undertake to use a portion of proceeds from ship- ments to Brazil for exports from Brazil or for specified financing or investment activities, as a condition for obtaining permission f rom the Cen- tral Bank to close exchange contracts in excess of specified quantities and terms of delivery. July 2. Decree-Law No. 666 required that goods imported by the Brazilian Government, by federal, state, or municipal agencies, by state and mixed enterprises, and goods imported under any governmental fiscal or tariff concessions or with government or external financing, be transported in Brazilian ships. July 7. The buy ing and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$4.025 and NCr$4.05 per US$1 to NCr$4.075 and NCr$4.10 per US$1, respec- tively. July 17. Decree No. 64833 regulated tax incentives for exports of manu fac tu red products, with effect from March 6, 1969. The main provi- sions of the decree concerned deductions from the industrial products tax ( IP I ), and from the tax due on remittances abroad of royalties or interest on loans. The decree also specified the functions of CACEX and CONCEX. July 18. Decree-Law No. 691 permitted the temporary employment of foreign technicians with salaries payable in foreign currency. July 21. The Bank of Brazil could henceforth operate in the foreign exchange markets in the name of the Central Bank, while previously it was operating for the account of the Central Bank. Exchange transactions with authorized banks in Rio de Janeiro would be undertaken 60 July 23. GECAM Announcement No. 115 provided that banks administering the assets of persons domiciled abroad could now freely remit up to US$300 a month, or its equivalent in other currencies, to those customers from income aris- ing from their assets in Brazil. Previously, remit- tances could only be made to persons abroad who had domicile in Brazil. July 25. Central Bank Resolution No. 120 established that exchange operations providing for prompt delivery of exchange must be liqui- dated w i th in two days of the closing date. August 5. Decree-Law No. 730 regulated the structure and functions of the Customs Policy Council (CPA ), charging it with the main responsibility of formulating national tariff policy with a view to adapting the tariff structure to the needs of development and of protection of national indus try. An Executive Commission of the CPA was created and charged with establish- ing pautas de valor m ínimo (m in imum import prices for customs valuation purposes) in accord- ance with priorities laid down by the CPA. The Executive Commission was required to examine the m in imum values proposed by CACEX and within 180 days of their promulgation, to approve or modify them, thereby transforming them into pautas de valor mínimo. August 5. Decree No. 64926 regulated the composition and functioning of the CPA in accordance with the provisions of Decree-Law No. 730. August 18. Central Bank Resolution No. 122 provided additional rediscount facilities for financ- ing the production of manufactured goods for export. August 18. Central Bank Resolution No. 121 provided that import certificates for imports of products listed in the Annex to Decree-Law No. 398 of December 30, 1968, and of automo- biles, including sports cars and light trucks of the utility and station wagon type, could be issued only upon prior conclusion of an exchange con- tract. Central Bank Resolution No. 94 of July 16, 1968, which required prior conclusion of an exchange contract for the issuance of import cer- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tificates relating to products subject to an import duty of 50 per cent or more, was revoked. date established the procedure for registration of these loans. BRAZIL August 18. GECAM Announcement No. 116 provided that foreign exchange contracts for imports of products listed in the Annex to Decree-Law No. 398, and of automobiles, includ- ing sports cars, and light trucks of the u t i l i ty and station wagon type, could have a max imum valid- ity of 180 days; an exchange contract could be extended only once, for a max imum period of 30 days, provided that payment is made at sight and that the shipment is completed while the import certificate remains in force. GECAM Announce- ment No. 73 of July 23, 1968 was revoked. August 25. CACEX Announcement No. 279 re-established m in imum values on over 200 prod- uct categories in the tar iff nomenclature, in accordance with Decree-Law No. 730. August 27. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$4.075 and NCr$4.10 per US$1 to NCr$4.125 and NCr$4.15 per US$1, respec- tively. August 29. Decree No. 65071 created an inter- ministerial body, the Commission on Foreign Loans (CEMPEX), and entrusted it w i th the examination of requests for authorization to take up, inter alia, foreign loans in respect of the fol- lowing: (1) transactions with foreign government agencies and in terna t ional credit organizations, irrespective of the na ture of the proposed Bra- zilian debtor; (2) transactions to be entered into by Brazilian public entities, direct or indirect, including state and municipal organizations and mixed enterprises, irrespective of the na ture of the proposed foreign creditor; and (3) all trans- actions involving the direct or indirect guarantee of the National Treasury. September 12. Central Bank Resolution No. 125 subjected exchange contracts relating to loans contracted under Law No. 4131 to prior approval by the Central Bank, in accordance with the system already applied to transactions cov- ered by SUMOC Instruction No. 289 of Janu- ary 14, 1965 and by Central Bank Resolutions Nos. 63 and 64 of August 21 and August 23, 1967. FIRCE Communiqué No. 10 of the same September 19. Decree No. 65199 permitted CACEX to grant benefits in the form of remission of import du t ies on goods used in the manu fac tu re of products intended for export, in accordance w i th the provisions of Decree No. 53967 of June 16, 1964. September. The quan t i ta t ive controls imposed on capital inflows under SUMOC Instruction No. 289 were eased. Approvals for new loan trans- actions under the provisions of Instruction No. 289 were not to be granted on the basis of the amount of transactions maturing during a given month, regardless of whether they were effectively repaid or converted into normal foreign loans under the provisions of Law No. 4131. Previously, approvals for new transactions were limited to the average amount of maturities effectively repaid du r ing the preceding four-week period. October 3. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$4.125 and NCr$4.15 per US$1 to NCr$4.185 and NCr$4.21 per US$1, respec- tively. October 10. Decree-Law No. 924 permitted foreign nationals and foreign-controlled Brazilian firms to acquire rural property in Brazil, provided that the property was purchased for the establish- ment of industrial projects approved by the authorities as being in the national interest. October 16. Brazilian Coffee Institute Resolu- tion No. 478 modified the amounts by which the registered sales price of green coffee could be lower than the applicable m in imum registration price. The new limits were US$0.01 a pound for exports of coffee free of "Rio Zone taste" and US$0.015 a pound for exports of coffee with "Rio Zone taste." Previously, these limits had been US$0.02 and US$0.03 a pound, respec- tively. October 16. Brazilian Coffee Institute Resolu- tion No. 480 extended the price guarantee system for coffee exports un t il March 31, 1970. Foreign importers were entitled, under certain conditions, to a compensation for any reduction during speci- fied guarantee periods in the price of Santos 4 ex dock New York below the level at which the 61 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BRAZIL export was registered, under the terms of IBC Resolution No. 428 of January 10, 1968. October 17. Brazilian Coffee Institute Resolu- tion No. 479 established a quota system for exports of coffee to "traditional markets." (The system was discontinued by v ir tue of IBC Reso- lu t ion No. 490 of February 26, 1970.) October 17. Central Bank Resolution No. 126 exempted the product derived from the process- ing of 250,000 bags (of 132 pounds each) of cocoa beans f rom the payment of the 5 per cent contribution quota. October 21. Decree-Law No. 1060 provided for the compulsory registration with the Central Bank of all assets held abroad by physical or ju r- idical persons. October 23. Central Bank Resolution No. 127 exempted imports into the Manaus Free Zone from the provisions relating to the prior conclu- sion of the exchange contract established by Cen- tral Bank Resolution No. 121 of August 18, 1969. Such imports could be paid for only in the Free Zone and through banks authorized to carry out exchange transactions. October 29. GECAM Announcement No. 122 was issued concerning the tax on exports of soluble coffee to the United States. The sh ipment of such coffee to other countries via the Un i ted States was prohibited. October. An agreement was signed w i th Den- mark, Norway, and Sweden wh ich provided that 32l/2 per cent (initially 15 per cent) of export cargoes and 50 per cent of import cargoes must be carried in Brazilian-owned vessels. November 14. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$4.185 and NCr$4.21 per US$1 to NCr$4.265 and NCr$4.290 per US$1, respec- tively. November 17. The Bank of Brazil, operating for the account of the Central Bank, could supply for- eign exchange to authorized banks in amounts not exceeding those needed to eliminate an over- sold position of up to US$500,000 and limited to 50 per cent of the exchange sold the previous day by the bank concerned to its customers. Pre- viously, the latter ratio had been 25 per cent. November 19. The state governments of Sâo Paulo, M inas Gérais, Paraná, and Espirito Santo agreed that the goods circulation tax (ICM) on raw coffee exports would be based on the cru- zeiro equivalent of the official export price estab- lished by the IBC, irrespective of the price regis- tered in U.S. dollars for the operation and of the qua l i ty or type of coffee. The ruling applied to unwashed coffee only. December 1. A Commission for the Coordina- tion of Policy with respect to Purchases Abroad was created. It was to coordinate the imports of off ic ial agencies and government-owned indus- tries. December 1. Decree No. 65761 authorized un t il December 31, 1970 the chartering of foreign-owned vessels for coastal shipping. December 2. Additional functions were entrusted to the National Monetary Council. They related to national supply policies and in- cluded the protection of domestic production against similar foreign products. December 10. GECAM Circular Letter No. 4 provided that the interbank transfers (reposes) allowed under the provisions of GECAM Announcement No. 78 of August 24, 1968 could hencefor th be settled by the delivery of checks in foreign currency issued by the transferring bank to the order of the purchasing bank and drawn on a bank abroad. December 18. The buying and selling rates of the monetary authorities were changed from NCr$4.265 and NCr$4.290 per US$1 to NCr$4.325 and NCr$4.350 per US$1, respec- tively. 62 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Exchange Raie System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Burmese Kyat or K 4.76190 = US$1. The buy- ing and selling rates for sterling of the State Com- mercial Bank are Is. 9Vèd. and Is. 87/sd., respec- tively, per K 1. The State Commercial Bank's buying and selling rates for currencies other than the pound sterling are w i th in the l im i ts of the m in imum buy ing and m ax imum selling rates f ixed by the People's Bank of Bu rma. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Exchange Control Board through the Exchange Control Depar tment of the People's Bank of Burma. Exports are handled by the Myanma Export-Import Corporation (ME IC or Trade Cor- poration No. 2 2 ). The MEIC also imports goods for the use of the private sector. Government agencies and departments make imports of goods for the ir own use, inc lud ing imports under loan and aid agreements in the name of the MEIC. Most paymen ts and imports are made in accord- ance w i th an annual foreign exchange budget. Prescription of Currency Payments to o ther coun tr ies may be made in any foreign currency or by crediting kya ts to an External Account in Bu rma. Receipts mu st be collected in convertible currenc ies or to the debit of an Ex ternal Account in Bu rma. Imports and import Payments An import program is d rawn up annua l ly as part of the foreign exchange budget. All imports are made by, or in the name of, the MEIC. All impor ts from Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. Also prohibited are impor ts of a few com- modities f rom any source —principally op ium and s im i lar narcotics, monkeys, p lay ing cards, and gold and silver bu l l ion. All paymen ts for imports are made through the State Commercial Bank. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for inv is ib les are subject to licens- ing. In general, paymen ts for items connected with foreign trade are allowed automatically, and pay- men ts for most o ther purposes are considered on a case-to-case basis. Payments for membership fees to educa t ional or technical ins t i tu t ions abroad and paymen ts for subscriptions to certain foreign periodicals are as a rule allowed freely; the same applies to ren tal fees for mo t ion-p ic ture films that have been perm i t ted to be exh ib i ted. Family remit- tances are permitted only by foreign municipal workers or foreign technicians employed under contract by the Government. Remittances of income re su l t ing from inves tment other than that guaranteed under the Investment Act have been tempo ra r i ly suspended. The rem i t tance of pen- sion paymen ts to retired government employees who served the Government as Burmese nationals but took up foreign citizenship before departure f rom Bu rma is not perm i t ted. Most personal money order remittances to neighboring countries th rough post offices are not perm i t ted. Foreign exchange allocations for tourist travel by res iden ts have been temporar i ly suspended. However, residents granted an off ic ial permit to go abroad for any purpose may take out freely the equ iva lent of K 50 in the currency of the country of destination (except Ind ia) or, if that currency is not available, in sterling notes. On leaving, non- res ident travelers who have stayed in the country for less th an six mon ths may take out any foreign currency they still hold and may also reconvert one f o u r th of the amount of foreign currency wh ich they had converted in to kyats. The export of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by the MEIC. There is a list of prohibited exports: iron and steel, brass, copper and a lum inum and scraps thereof, foreign manu fac tu re s, and commodities of domestic origin which it is desired to conserve for domestic requ i remen t s. All exports to Rhodesia and South Afr ica are proh ib i ted. Export proceeds must be obtained in a manner satisfactory to the exchange control au thor i t ies; the exchange must be surren- dered to the State Commercial Bank within six mon ths f rom the date of shipment. 63 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURMA Proceed» from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered. Travelers may bring in, subject to decla- ration, any amount in foreign currency. The import of Burmese currency notes is prohibited. Capital Foreign investments in Burma are governed by the provisions of the Union of Burma Investment Act, 1959 and the Investment Rules of Febru- ary 25, 1960 issued under authority of the Act. Investment proposals are to be considered by an Investment Committee, to ascertain whether the proposed enterprise will utilize domestic raw mate- rials, increase domestic employment, conserve for- eign exchange, and generally conform to the economic plans of the Government. However, no private investments have been made under the Act; since February 15, 1963, when the Govern- ment announced a new policy of nationalization, permission has not been granted for any foreign private investment in Burma. The investment law provides for the transfer abroad of profits after taxes and for the with- drawal of imported capital at any time after five years from the time of entry, in annual quotas not exceeding 25 per cent of its original value. In principle, proceeds from the liquidation or sale of an enterprise may also be transferred abroad. All such transfers may, subject to prior approval, be made at the official rate of exchange prevailing at the time of the transaction. However, transfers of capital proceeds from the voluntary liquidation of foreign companies have been suspended since July 1963. All outward transfers of capital require prior approval. Residents are not permitted to remit funds abroad for investment. The repatriation of personal assets and the making of family remit- tances have been suspended, with minor excep- tions, for foreign nationals employed in the private sector. When the transfer abroad of payments in favor of nonresidents is not permitted, the authorities can allow such payments to be credited to kyat nonresident accounts. Certain debits and credits to such accounts require prior permission. The import, export, and transfer of securities involving nonresident interests require individual licenses. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate gold jewelry, gold coins, and unworked gold in Burma. Licenses for imports and exports of gold are not granted unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities of Burma. Jewelry for per- sonal wear may be brought into Burma subject to customs declaration at the port of arrival. The export of personal jewelry is permitted under license, subject to the condition that the jewelry will be repatriated. No conditions are attached, however, to the taking out of personal jewelry that was declared to the customs when it was brought into Burma. Changes during 1969 March 12. The Government assumed the sole right to prospect and mine precious stones. Only the Government could henceforth hold or negotiate unpolished gems. November 1. The People's Bank of Burma, which was designed by the People's Bank Law of 1967 to become the only bank in Burma, began operations. It arose out of the merger of three government agencies and two banks, one of which was the Union Bank of Burma (previously the central bank ). 64 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0101562 gram of fine gold per Burundi Franc or FBu 87.50 = US$1. The exchange rates for the Belgian franc quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi are fixed at FBu 174.30 buying, and FBu 175.70 selling, per BF 100. For other specified currenc iesl the Bank quotes buying and selling rates based on the fixed rates for the Belgian franc and their official market rates in Brussels. Authorized banks must carry out permitted exchange transac- tions at rates between the buying and selling rates established by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi for currencies quoted by that bank; they may agree rates freely with their customers for certain other currencies.2 The official rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1969 were FBu 86.57 buying, and FBu 87.27 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the Bank of the Repub- lic of Bu rund i; authority to carry out some trans- actions is delegated to three authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments may be made in any cur- rency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted by the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Accounts in Burundi Francs may be maintained, subject to the approval of the cen- tral bank, by ( 1) physical persons of foreign nationality who are temporarily established in Burundi and are not considered as residents, such as diplomats, and (2) juridical persons of for- eign nationality with special status, such as for- 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 These currencies are Kenya shillings, Tanzania shil- lings, and Uganda shillings. eign embassies and international organizations. These accounts may be credited freely with the proceeds of foreign currencies quoted by the cen- tral bank and they may be debited freely for withdrawals of Burundi francs, for any normal current payment in Burundi, and for conversion into foreign exchange (except banknotes). All other debits and credits require the prior approval of the central bank. These accounts cannot bear interest and must not be overdrawn. Certain nonresidents may maintain Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies with an author- ized bank. The opening of such accounts requires the approval of the central bank and is restricted to ( 1 ) physical persons of foreign nationality who are resident abroad and (2) juridical per- sons hav ing branches or subsidiaries abroad. These accounts may be credited freely with any foreign exchange that is received from abroad. They may be debited freely for (1) conversion into Bu rundi francs required to pay any expenses in Bu rundi and (2) payments abroad for travel and representation or for the purchase price of foreign goods. These accounts cannot bear inter- est and must not be overdrawn; the related bank charges and commissions may be settled in Burundi francs. imports and import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports except trade samples and merchandise not intended for sale and valued up to FBu 20,000 require licen- ses; these are issued freely, except for certain used clothing. Applications for licenses must be submitted to the Bank of the Republic of Bu rundi on a form entitled Import License and Payment Authorization. The approval of such an application constitutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, applications for amounts under FBu 100,000 are approved by the authorized banks. Import licen- ses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The license is valid for a period of seven months starting at the end of the month following that of validation; in special cases, extensions may be granted by the central bank. The number and 65 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution BURUNDI date of expiration must be entered on the cus- toms clearance fo rm, the Consumption Decla- ration, a copy of which is then sent to the central bank by the customs office. Advance deposits calculated on the c.i.f. value are required for certain luxu ry goods from importers whose outstanding exchange commit- ments against import licenses are the equivalent of FBu 100,000 or over. The deposit on such commodities is 100 per cent; it is not required, however, when the goods are imported in small amoun ts, i.e., when the amount of the license is less than FBu 10,000. The deposit must be made at the time the import license application is approved; it is released when the import payment is made. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require approval. Transfers of earnings of foreign nationals are freely permitted upon proof of payment of taxes, up to 20-65 per cent of net annual income, depending on the amount of such income; this regime applies to earnings under a labor contract, to income earned in a profession, and to profits earned by any enterprise operated by an individ- ual or a partnership. Private joint-stock compa- nies may freely transfer their full net profits after taxes, or, if the stockholders are resident foreign nationals, two thirds of profits af ter taxes. Per- sons leaving Bu rundi permanently are authorized to transfer abroad their holdings of Burundi francs that consist of unrem i t ted savings or of the proceeds of the sale of their personal effects. Transfer of income from rental properties to non- resident owners is permitted after payment of taxes and deduction of normal maintenance expenses; resident owners may remit two thirds of such income. Residents of Burundi nationality may purchase reasonable amounts of exchange for foreign travel; they may take out this exchange and up to FBu 2,000 in Burundi bank- notes. In addition, residents may freely purchase foreign travel tickets up to certain limits against payment in Burundi francs. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All exports valued at over 66 FBu 3,000 are subject to a prior declaration enti- tled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Ex- change. The Declarations must be presented for certification by the central bank through an authorized bank, with the exception of those for certain commodities exported on consignment (ma in ly coffee, cotton, and hides), which may be certified by authorized banks. Declarations are valid for a period of six months, but extensions may be granted by the central bank. Payments must be collected not later than 45 days after the goods have le ft the country when they are sold to neighboring countries, and not later than 90 days for goods shipped to other destinations. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surren- dered to an authorized bank within 8 days from their collection. Exports of manufactured goods may receive a re fund of 3 per cent of the f.o.b. value, provided that they incorporate raw mate- rials on which import duty has been paid. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered to authorized banks. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign banknotes and up to FBu 2,000 in Bu rundi banknotes. Capital The Inves tment Code of August 25, 1967 pro- vides for fiscal and other benefits for domestic and foreign private investors. New investment that fu l f i l ls specified conditions as to amount and economic importance may be granted priority s ta tus to which specified privileges are attached, mainly in the form of exemptions from import du t ies and from taxes on income from the invest- ment. Import duties and taxes may be reduced or suspended for goods and equipment needed for s tar t ing a particular project and, during a period of 5 years, for other merchandise needed for the m anu f a c tu r ing operation or for the upkeep of the original investment. Taxes on profits and real estate may be likewise reduced or suspended. Enterprises which are granted priority status may obtain protection against foreign competition, priority in the allocation of government contracts, and a guarantee from the central bank for the free transfer of profits and dividends as well as the repatriation of the invested capital. In addi- tion to these privileges, companies undertaking ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution investments that are considered to be of prime importance to Burundi's economic development may be granted, under a separate convention, a guarantee that direct taxes on their activities will not be increased for a period of up to 15 years. An Investment Commission under the Minister of Planning is charged with examining requests for priority status and gran t ing the necessary authori- zation. Capital transfers by residents require individual authorization, which is rarely given, except in the case of foreign capital on which a repatriation guarantee has been granted. The guarantee is given to foreign exchange imported in Belgian francs or other specified currencies (see footnote 1) by resident enterprises for wo rk ing capital purposes and is valid for one year from the date on which the exchange is surrendered to the cen- tral bank through an authorized bank. The guar- antee provides for the transfer at the off ic ial rate of the original amount surrendered. Gold BURUNDI domestic producers at FBu 95.00 per gram (corresponding to US$33.77 per troy ounce). A f ter re f in ing abroad, this gold is included in the off ic ial mone tary reserves. Imports and exports of gold may be made only by the central bank, with the exception that private firms may be licensed to import gold for dental use. Changes during 1969 April 25. The permission granted to authorized banks to agree rates freely with their customers for Ango lan escudos, Rhodesian pounds, and South A f r i c an rand was revoked. April 25. Au thor ized banks were permitted to purchase aga inst Bu rundi francs, at rates freely negotiated w i th their customers, banknotes in any foreign currency other than the Belgian franc or the cu r renc ies listed in footnote 1, above. Banks were also permitted to negotiate the banknotes so acqu ired against Belgian francs and the curren- cies of footnote 1 in any form (check, transfer, or b a n k n o t e ). Dealings in gold coins must be carried out through authorized banks. All other private deal- ing in gold is prohibited. The central bank purchases un re f ined, newly mined gold from May 30. Transfers between Nonresident Accounts in B u r u n di Francs required the prior approval of the Bank of the Republic of Burundi. Previously, they were freely permitted. 67 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA1 Exchange Rate System No par value has been agreed with the Fund. The Cambodian Riel is defined as a monetary un it containing 0.016 gram of fine gold, corre- sponding to CR 55.54 per US$1. The National Bank of Cambodia maintains official quotations based on par values for 14 currencies2 and "indicative" quotations for 4 other currencies.3 Sales and purchases of foreign banknotes quoted on the Phn ôm-Penh official market are made at the selling rate plus 2 per cent and at the buying rate minus 1 per cent, respectively. Rates for foreign banknotes quoted "indicatively" on that market are determined by the authorized banks on the basis of the average rates announced by the National Bank of Cambodia plus a commission of 1 per cent for purchases and of 4 per cent for sales. Authorized banks are empowered to negotiate for their own account, and at a rate mu tua l ly agreed with their custom- ers, foreign banknotes other than those quoted officially or "indicatively" by the National Bank of Cambodia. Arbitrage operations involving convertible cur- rencies may be authorized by the National Exchange Office. If the operations take place in Cambodia, they are carried out at the rate of the day on the Phnôm-Penh exchange market. Forward exchange transactions for up to three months are permitted in respect of imports and exports. Contracts may be renewed once for a three-month period. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Exchange Office in cooperation with the National Bank of Cambodia; this office is empowered to authorize all operations related to 1 Cambodia became a member of the International Monetary Fund on December 31, 1969. 2 These currencies are Australian dollars, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Indian rupees, Italian lire, Malaysian dollars, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Singapore dollars, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 3 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Canadian dollars, Portuguese escudos, and Swedish kronor. 68 settlements with foreign countries, to foreign investments, and to nonresident accounts. All import and export transactions are effected by the National Import-Export Corporation (Société Nationale d'Exportation et d'Importa- tion or SONEX IM ). The Ministry of National Economy is in charge of import and export controls, but it has delegated this authority to the Director of Foreign Trade. Import and export licenses are issued by SONEXIM and must be domiciled with either of the two state banks, i.e., the Cambodian Bank of Commerce or the National Credit (Inadana Ja t i); the bank's visa is required before licenses are presented to customs. Prescription of Currency Settlements with 8 countries with which Cam- bodia has bilateral payments arrangements are made through bilateral accounts. Those main- tained for mainland China, Czechoslovakia, East- ern Germany, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam are denominated in pounds sterling, and those for Bulgaria, Poland, and Yugoslavia in U.S. dollars. Currencies prescribed for settlements with other countries are usually specified in the licen- ses. Payments for imports from the French Franc Area must be made in French francs. Payments for imports from other countries are ordinarily made in the currency of the country of the exporter. Foreign investments must be made in a cur- rency acceptable to the National Bank. Profits on, and proceeds from the liquidation of, foreign investments may be transferred abroad in the currency in which the investment was made. Nonresident Accounts The following categories of account may be maintained for nonresidents: Foreigners' Ac- counts in Riels, Capital Accounts, Nonresident Accounts, and Foreign Currency Accounts. In addition, Cambodian nationals staying abroad temporarily but not recognized as nonresidents, and foreigners staying in Cambodia but not rec- ognized as residents, may maintain special Inter- nal Accounts of Nonresidents. There are separate ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution regulations concerning nonresident accounts that may be used to finance transactions in the free trade area of Sihanoukville. Foreigners' Accounts in Riels may be opened, w i thout permission, for foreigners residing abroad. They are related to the country of resi- dence of the account holder. They may be freely credited with (1) proceeds from the sale on the Phn ôm-Penh market of the currency (but not banknotes) of the country of the account holder; (2) payments for authorized imports (including incidental expenses) from the country of the account holder; (3) earnings on investments in Cambodia and receipts from repayments on Cam- bodian stocks and bonds and on other invest- ments made in Cambodia after May 1956; and (4) interest paid by the banks on funds kept in the accounts. These accounts may be freely debited for normal expenses in Cambodia and purchases on the Phn ôm-Penh market of bank- notes of the country of the account holder. Transfers between Foreigners' Accounts in Riels related to the same country may be made freely. Capital Accounts may be opened without per- mission. Subject to authorization, these accounts may be credited with ( 1 ) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds imported from abroad or kept with an authorized bank in a dossier related to the country of the account holder; (2) proceeds from the sale in Cambodia of participations in corporations other than by purchases of stocks and bonds; (3) contractual or advance repayments of Cam- bodian stocks and bonds; (4) proceeds from the sale through an authorized notary of real estate or businesses located in Cambodia and in the possession of a nonresident account holder since Janua ry 1, 1955 or acquired by him either through inheritance or with the permission of the National Exchange Office; (5) repayment of loans granted to residents prior to January 1, 1955, or after that date with the approval of the National Exchange Office; and (6) transfers from another capital account related to the coun- try of the account holder. Capital Accounts may be freely debited for (1) living expenses of the account holder or his family up to CR 1,000 a person a day, and up to a maximum of CR 50,000 monthly, and (2) expenses connected with the administration of foreign assets in Cam- CAMBODIA bodia (stocks and bonds, buildings, land, etc.). Subject to authorization from the National Exchange Office, these accounts may be debited for ( 1) purchases in Cambodia of Cambodian stocks and bonds; (2) subscriptions to, or increases in the capital of, a Cambodian firm; ( 3) purchases through an authorized notary of title to real estate or businesses located in Cambodia; (4) loans in dels to residents; (5) transfers to another capital account related to the country of the account holder; (6) living expenses in Cambodia of the account holder's employees if the account is held by a firm (cor- poration, bank, etc.); and (7) gifts to individu- als and to social, cu l tura l, and religious associa- tions. Nonresident Accounts may be opened only upon au tho r iza t ion. They may be freely debited for (1) taxes in Cambodia, (2) miscellaneous accounting, correspondence expenses, etc., and ( 3) l iv ing expenses in Cambodia of the account holder and his family, up to CR 2,000 a day. All other operations through these accounts are sub- ject to ind iv idual licensing. Foreign Currency Accounts may be opened only upon authorization. They may be freely credited w i th foreign exchange transferred from abroad. Account holders may use balances on these accounts ( 1 ) to cover expenses abroad, such as those related to travel, missions, and the purchase of foreign merchandise, and (2) to cover expenses of any k ind in Cambodia by con- ve r t ing balances on these accounts into riels on the Phn ôm-Penh exchange market. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents may be opened only upon authorization. Balances on these accounts may not be used for transfers abroad. The accounts may be freely credited with ( 1) proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange on the Phn ôm-Penh ma rke t; (2) transfers from Foreigners' Accounts in Riels; (3) wages, sala- ries, allowances, and payments for expenses of Cambodian nationals employed by Cambodian firms and temporarily residing abroad; (4) income earned in Cambodia by account holders; ( 5) redeposits of previous withdrawals; and ( 6) repayment of loans granted to residents out of balances in such accounts. The accounts may be freely debited for ( 1 ) living expenses in 69 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA Cambodia of the account holder or his family, (2) adm in is tra t ive expenses related to the account holder's property in Cambodia, and ( 3) loans to residents. All other operations through these accounts requ ire authorization. Imports and import Payments The import of certain commodities is prohib- ited for reasons of health or security and that of certain other goods, such as beer and cotton yarn, for protective reasons. An annual import program is prepared by the Ministry of Commerce. Twice a year, the National Bank of Cambodia places at the dis- posal of the Ministry a specific amount of foreign exchange to pay for the programed imports. Cer- tain imports outside the import program (imports sans devises or imports w i thout exchange) are permitted if no official exchange is requested; these include not only imports of a personal na ture but also capital equipment and the like. There is a list of commodities that may be imported on a barter basis, either in échanges compensés or as a troc taxé', most t rade w i th Laos, the Republic of Viet-Nam, and Thailand is con- ducted on the latter basis, and most imports from other sources are made on the former basis. All imports are effected by a state trading agency, SONEX IM. Applications for goods to be imported may be submitted by industries and traders to SONEX IM, which transmits them to a Special Board in the M in is try of Commerce for consideration. The Special Board allocates appro- priate foreign exchange to SONEX IM for those applications it approves. Foreign exchange received from foreign travelers by approved hotels and surrendered by the latter to SONEXIM may be used by the hotels concerned, through the intermediary of that organization, to finance imports for their own use (see section on Pro- ceeds from Invisibles, be low). Payments for invisibles All payments for invisibles requ ire individual licenses. A foreigner working in Cambodia and receiv- ing a monthly salary exceeding CR 5,000 in Phn ôm-Penh, or CR 3,500 in the provinces, may 70 in principle transfer up to 30 per cent of his net mon th ly salary —after payment of taxes —plus 15 per cent of his monthly salary if a dependent wife stays abroad, plus an additional 10 per cent if dependent children, parents, or grandparents stay abroad. (The additional percentage of transfer- able income is 2 per cent for each legitimate child or dependent parent or grandparent, with a maxi- mum of 10 per cent of the net monthly income for each f am i l y .) Such transfers may not exceed the equ iva lent of CR 20,000 a worker a month. Transfer facilities are not granted for salaries and wages exempt from income tax. Overtime pay is considered transferable income only when it is received in payment for courses given in public educational institutions. Women of foreign na t iona l i ty married to Cambodian nationals and wo rk ing in the private sector are not permitted to t rans fer savings from salaries or wages to their coun try of origin. Foreign landlords domiciled in Cambodia may transfer up to 30 per cent of the taxable portion of the ir income from rent, provided that the rent exceeds CR 5,000 for landlords living in Phn ôm-Penh or CR 3,500 for landlords living in the provinces. Foreign landlords living abroad may transfer up to 20 per cent of the taxable portion of rent. Foreigners residing in Cambodia, when leaving the coun try permanen t ly, are permitted to trans- fer abroad, up to prescribed limits, savings out of the ir salaries earned in Cambodia, provided that the savings have been regularly deposited with an au thor ized bank in Cambodia. The t rans fer of the full net profits from non- resident investments made prior to May 31, 1956 is authorized, subject to proof that the investment was made w i th foreign currency other than the fo rmer Indochinese piastre; otherwise, the trans- fer of profits on pre-1956 investments is limited to 80 per cent and is permitted only if the invest- ment is recognized as useful to the economic development of Cambodia. Net profits that do not exceed 20 per cent of foreign investments made after May 31, 1956 may be transferred. Cambodians studying abroad may receive monthly exchange allocations equivalent to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CR 6,000 for France; CR 5,500 for the United States and the United Kingdom; CR 5,000 for Switzerland; CR 4,500 for Belgium and Japan; and CR 4,000 for any other country. A Cam- bodian student granted a scholarship may receive a monthly allocation to cover the difference be- tween the scholarship and the permissible ex- change allocation. The allocation of foreign ex- change for tourist travel and business travel has been suspended. The export of Cambodian currency is prohib- ited and foreign tourists are not allowed to reconvert riels into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are effected by SONEXIM, in accordance w i th an annual export program pre- pared by the M in is t ry of Commerce. There is a special list of products that may be exported on a barter basis (échanges compensés or troc taxé). Export proceeds are surrendered to the National Exchange Office. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Only authorized banks and approved hotels may purchase foreign exchange from travelers, and only in currencies that are off ic ia l ly quoted by the National Bank. Approved hotels must surrender to authorized banks the foreign exchange that they acquire from fore ign travelers. Hotel bills may be remitted in riels by fore ign citizens on official travel upon p roduc ing a s ta tement issued by their embassy ce r t i fy ing the payment of these expenses through its own f u n ds held in c lear ing accounts or f rom the sale of foreign currencies. The impo rt of Cambodian currency is prohib- ited. Foreign exchange must be declared by trav- elers when entering Cambodia; if imported by residents, such exchange must be surrendered within seven days from the day of en try into Cambodia. Capital All capital transfers require individual licenses. No transfer abroad of proceeds from the sale of property by a foreigner to a foreigner is per- mitted. Foreigners who sell their property to CAMBODIA Cambodians and leave Cambodia permanently may t rans fer in i t ia l ly up to 20 per cent of the proceeds of the sale; up to 20 per cent of the rema inder may be authorized for transfer annu a l ly, when the total amount involved is small. Funds representing the repayment of loans o r ig ina l ly gran ted in foreign currency may be considered t rans fe rab le income. Since May 31, 1956, all foreign investments have been subject to authorization from the Min- istry of Finance, which requires that a certain percentage of the capital of an enterprise should be reserved for Cambodian participation and that its employees should be Cambodians. Only inves tmen ts for the creation of activities recog- nized as useful to the economic development of the coun t ry and not involving monopoly or spe- cial pr iv i lege may be authorized. Proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of authorized investments made a f ter May 31, 1956 may be transferred in yearly in s t a l lm en ts not exceeding 20 per cent of the total inves tmen t. Up to 10 per cent of the pro- ceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of investments made prior to May 31, 1956 may be authorized for t ran s fer every year. Foreign capital invested af ter May 31, 1956 is gua ran teed the same tax treatment that is applied to resident inves tmen ts; in addition, special incen- tives (pa r t ial exemption from duties and taxes on reinvested profits, and on equipment goods or raw ma te r ia ls imported du r ing the first year of o p e r a t i o n) may be accorded to foreign invest- ment considered as exceptionally useful to the Cambodian economy. There is a guarantee of 10-30 years against risks of nationalization or expropr ia t ion, and for a just and equitable indemn i ty in the event of nationalization or exp rop r ia t ion of investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cambodia for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, SONEX IM, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the National Bank of Cambodia; such licenses are 71 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMBODIA not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and SONEX IM. Changes during 1969 January 31. A revised list of "financeable" imports was issued. February 11. Modified lists of imports subject to compensation charges (péréquations) were issued. The range of compensation charges on list D goods was changed from 10-50 per cent to 20-50 per cent. May 3. It was announced that authorized deal- ers could without limitation purchase foreign exchange from foreign tourists at the special tour- ist exchange rate. Previously, conversions were limited to the price of rooms, meals, excursion trips, and souvenirs purchased from specified shops. Riels purchased by tourists could not be reconverted into foreign exchange or exported. July 24. Order No. 1846/69 continued the tourist exchange rate and made it applicable to all expenditures of foreign tourists. Conversion at the tourist rate was permitted only for means of payment denominated in currencies officially quoted by the National Bank. July 29. The allocation of exchange for nonof- ficial travel was resumed. Residents' purchases of exchange for travel and study purposes had to be made at the tourist exchange rate. The allocation for business travel, which previously had to be financed with funds on EFAC accounts, was CR 1,700 a day. The allocation for tourist travel, pilgrimages, and (upon departure) for education and medical purposes was the equivalent of CR 13,600 a person a trip for Southeast Asia, CR 21,500 a person a trip for the French Franc Area, and CR 17,000 a person a trip for other countries. Children were entitled to half these amounts. Periodic allocations for study abroad were also announced. Officially listed hotels could use foreign exchange that they had purchased at the tourist exchange rate to import certain equipment and consumer goods. Applications to purchase foreign exchange for other purposes at the tourist rate could be submitted to the National Exchange Office. August 4. The National Bank introduced an official quotation for the Malaysian dollar. The premium on the Malaysian dollar for tourists was maintained at CR 8. August 18. The official parity of the riel was changed from 0.0253905 gram of fine gold (cor- responding to CR 35 per U.S. dollar) to 0.016 gram of fine gold or CR 55.54 per U.S. dollar. The rate for the French franc remained unchanged at CR 10 = F 1. As a result, the broken cross rate for the French franc was eliminated. The special exchange rates of CR 60 = US$1 and CR 12 = F 1 for the conversion of foreign ex- change by foreign tourists were abolished. Foreign exchange received from tourists could no longer be used for import purposes. August 18. The compensation charges on imports were abolished. For most commodities subject to these charges, they had been lower for imports payable in French francs than for those payable in other currencies. August 18. The exchange allocations for travel and study that had been introduced on July 29 were suspended. August 18. A revised list was issued of com- modities that could be imported or exported on a barter basis (troc taxé). September. Imports of alcoholic beverages were suspended. October 25. Imports of cotton yarn and liquid milk (canned or bottled) were prohibited. November 4. The system of allocations for study abroad and for government officials taking training courses abroad was modified. 72 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Exchange System No par value for the currency of Cameroon has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Cameroonian agency of the BCEAEC and commercial banks in Cameroon take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and in principle include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Cameroon's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with (1) France and its Over- seas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Cameroon itself, are considered foreign countries, and financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate of Foreign Economic Relations and Inter- national Payments in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which also supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Cameroon and inward and outward direct investment. The BCEAEC is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks, any information 1 The CFA franc circulating in Cameroon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Repub- lic of the Congo, and Gabon. necessary to compile the balance of payments sta- tistics. All exchange transactions relating to for- eign countries must be effected through author- ized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try; applications must be submitted to the Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations and International Payments. Prescription of Currency Cameroon is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country.2 Settlements w i th all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the cur- rencies of those countries—provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements between Cameroon and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. The import from all sources outside the Central African Customs and Economic Union of certain goods (including flour, rice, pharmaceutical products, and matches) requires a prior authorization (autorisa- tion préalable); when these goods are imported 2 There is an inoperative payments agreement with Mali. 73 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON from countries other than France or Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area, they require in addition an import license. Other imports from France and from member states and associated states of the EEC may be made free ly, and the former do not require a license. Some commodities are liberalized from all sources. Moreover, imports from any coun try made by industrialists for use in their own enterprises are also liberalized. Licenses for liberalized commodi- ties are issued without restriction. All other im- ports are subject to licensing in accordance w i th an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to imp lement it are determined by the M in is try of Commerce and Industry and are discussed in a jo int French- Cameroonian Committee. The allocations of the program are subsequently subdivided in to quotas for West and East Cameroon. Under the global quotas established in the import program, goods originating in any country other than France, an Operations Account coun- try of the French Franc Area, or an EEC coun- try may be imported. However, there is a sepa- rate quota for textiles from Asian countries. Import licenses are not issued un t il the importer has received his personal import quota from a technical committee headed by the Direc- tor of Commerce and Foreign Economic Rela- tions. For purposes of his d is tr ibu t ion, registered importers are classified according to the value of their annual imports from the French Franc Area and from foreign countries, although exchange may also be made available, under certain con- ditions, to newly established importers and to industrial enterprises that are not registered im- porters. Import licenses for imports outside the import program, e.g., for gifts, items sent as guarantees, publicity articles, and supplies for foreign reli- gious missions, may be approved, provided that the importer undertakes not to sell the goods and only to use them for his personal requirements. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 25,000. Import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. 74 Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transac- tion has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Cameroon must be surrendered. For business travel to for- eign countries, there is an allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 300,000 a trip. The transfer of rent from real property owned in Cameroon by foreign nationals is limited to 50 per cent of the income declared for taxation purposes. Remit- tances for current repair and management of real property abroad are normally limited to the equivalent of CFAF 200,000 every two or three years. The transfer of 20 per cent or 50 per cent of the salary of a foreigner working in Cameroon is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in one month of the pay period con- cerned. Except in the case of foreigners working in Cameroon temporarily, payments to foreign countries of insurance premiums are not permit- ted if the same type of insurance is available in Cameroon. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a maximum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries; if they avail themselves of this facility, their foreign exchange allocation is reduced cor- respondingly. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export transactions relat- ing to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be col- lected w i th in a month of the date of arrival at their destination and proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or an Opera- tions Account coun try must be surrendered w i t h in a month a f ter collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected w i th in a month of the due da te and surrendered w i th in a month of collection if received in foreign currency. Resident and non- resident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of coun tr ies outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Cameroon and France, Monaco, and other Opera t ions Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital t rans fe rs to all o ther countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but cap i tal receipts f rom such countries are permitted freely. Emigrants to for- eign countries may t rans fer abroad the ir f u ll sav- ings, provided that they have met th e ir tax obliga- tions. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, o f fe r ing for sale, or introduction of foreign securities in Cameroon; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities CAMEROON in Cameroon, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Accoun t. The provisions of Decree No. 67/DF/365, which introduced these special con- trols, have been suspended insofar as they are con trary to Decree No. 68/DF/460, on which the present exchange controls are based. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles embodying claims on nonresidents must be deposited with an authorized in te rmed ia ry, whe ther they belong to residents or nonresidents. Direct inves tmen ts abroad 3 requ i re the prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Indu s t ry, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistrib- uted profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such inve s tmen ts only requires a report ex post to the M in is ter of Commerce and Indu s t ry, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a par- t ic ipa t ion that had previously been approved as cons t i tu t ing the mak ing of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Cameroon 4 require prior declaration to the Minister of Com- merce and Industry, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of und is t r ibu ted profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The fu ll or par- t ial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Cameroon only requires reporting ex post to the Minister of Commerce and Indus try, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the mak ing of a direct investment in Cameroon. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of direct invest- ments, whether these are Cameroonian invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Cameroon, must be reported to the Minister of Commerce and 3 Inc lud ing those made through the in te rmed ia ry of fore ign companies that are d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly con- trolled by persons in Cameroon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies of Cam- eroon. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Cameroon that are d irec t ly or indirectly under fore ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of foreign companies. 75 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON Industry within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct invest- ment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Cameroon requires prior authorization by the Minister of Commerce and Industry, and must subsequently be reported to him. Exempt from authorization, however, and subject only to an ex post report, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guar- antee from the Cameroonian Government, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offering for sale in Cameroon has previously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Came- roon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minis- ter of Commerce and Indus try and must subse- quently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization, and require only a report ex post: (a) loans consti- tuting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms men- tioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Cameroon and coun- tries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institu- tions; and (d) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower, their duration does not exceed 2 years, and the rate of interest does not exceed 6 per cent a year. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Came- roon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Cameroon of juridical persons whose registered office is 76 abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minis- ter of Commerce and Industry and must subse- quently be reported to him. The following are, however, exempt from prior authorization and are subject only to a report ex post: (a) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (b) loans directly connected with the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of com- mercial transactions either between Cameroon and countries abroad or between foreign coun- tries, in which these persons or firms take part; and (c) loans contracted by registered banks and credit institutions. An Investment Code promulgated in 1960 and revised in April 1964 establishes four categories of fiscal and other benefits which may be granted to both foreign and domestic firms undertaking approved new industrial or agricultural projects in Cameroon. The scope and duration of the bene- fits vary depending on the size of the investment, the degree to which it helps implement the eco- nomic and social development plan, and its importance to national economic growth. Cate- gory A permits ma in ly duty-free entry of capital goods and raw materials required for manufactur- ing and processing. Under Category B, firms may be entitled to the benefits of Category A and also to exemption for 5 years from the tax on industrial and commercial profits and from var- ious other taxes and fees. Under Category C, large companies may conclude an "establishment agreement" with the Government, under which special conditions for the operations of the com- pany are agreed and the nature and extent of tax concessions are determined. Normally, an "estab- lishment agreement" is valid for 25 years and defines also the legal, economic, and financial guarantees granted to the company, including the assurance of stable conditions for financial trans- fers and marketing of goods. Category D grants to firms making investments of particular signifi- cance to the national economy the benefits of Category C, as well as a guarantee of stability of taxation for up to 25 years. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold jewelry in Cameroon. They require ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the approval of the Directorate of Mines to hold gold in any other form. Approval is normally given only to industrial users, including jewelers. Newly mined gold must be declared to the Direc- torate of Mines, which authorizes either its exportation or its sale to domestic industrial users; exports are made only to France. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Directorate of Mines and the Minister of Com- merce and Indus try, which is seldom granted for imports. Exempt from this requ irement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated arti- cles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1969 January 16. Circular No. 1 provided t h at pay- ments for imports from foreign countries up to CFAF 25,000 could be made freely, even if no import license existed. Forward cover could be obtained only for import payments and would be prohibited un t il fu r ther regulations were issued. Spot exchange for imports could be obtained only for financing under letter of credit, and not ear- lier than eight days before payment was due or, if a letter of credit was opened, eight days before shipment. The general authorization given to approved intermediaries by Order No. 794/MINCI of December 11, 1968, to sell for- eign exchange for a number of transactions could be exercised by them only subsequent to the veri- fication and approval (visa) of the supporting documents by the staff of the Ministry of Com- merce and Industry. Resident and nonresident travelers could import any amount by means of payment denom- inated in foreign currency as well as any amount of BCEAEC banknotes and banknotes issued in Operations Account countries. Nonresident travel- ers departing from Cameroon were authorized to re-export the unused foreign currency they had previously imported and could reconvert into foreign currencies BCEAEC banknotes up to CFAF 50,000. In addition, resident and non- resident travelers could take out any other French Franc Area banknotes up to the equivalent of CAMEROON CFAF 10,000. An allowance of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year was set for tourist travel to foreign countries. An allocation for business travel abroad was fixed at the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 300,000 a trip. Emigrants could transfer up to the equivalent of CFAF 500,000 a person. Rents could be transferred once a year. Profits could be transferred as shown in the balance sheet and other accounts. January 16. Instruction No. 1 established pro- cedures for the domiciliation of import transac- tions, payments for imports, the domiciliation of export transactions, and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. Forward pur- chases of foreign currency were limited to import transactions; the commodities for which cover could be obtained were to be specified by the Minister of Commerce and Industry. January 16. Circular No. 2 established proce- dures for the establishment and operation by non- residents of Foreign Accounts in Francs and for- eign dossiers for securities. With minor exceptions, all overdraf ts on the accounts men- tioned and all advances to nonresidents required the approval of the Minister of Commerce and Industry. January 16. Instruction No. 2 established standard allocations for the transfer abroad of wages and salaries earned by foreign workers in Cameroon. A bachelor could transfer 20 per cent of his mon th ly earnings, and a married man 50 per cent, provided that his family resided in his country of origin. February 18. Circular No. 3 was issued con- cerning transfers of rents and of farmers' income. It amended Circular No. 1. February 18. Order No. 9 was issued concern- ing the control over means of payment carried by travelers. April 22. The import program for 1969 was announced. The over-all amount of the quotas was fixed at CFAF 6.5 billion, compared with CFAF 7.1 billion for 1968. Five commodities were taken off the quota system and could hence- for th be imported freely; these were beer, stock- fish, ores, air conditioners, and motor vehicles (including trucks). 77 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CAMEROON August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 271.110 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French f ranc, the Mala- gasy franc, and the Mali f ranc remained unchanged. 78 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.822021 gram of fine gold per Canadian Dollar or Can$l = US$0.925. Canada has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. On March 25, 1952, Canada notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obli- gations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. In imp lemen ta t ion of UN Security Counc il Resolution No. 253 (68) of May 29, 1968, pay- ments and transfers to Rhodesia are restricted. Imports and Import Payments Payments and t rans fe rs abroad may be made freely. Import licenses are required only for a few agricultural items, including certain cereals, for n a tu r al gas, and for ma te r ial and equ ipment for the production or use of atomic energy; for some of the agricultural items, such as certain da iry products, licenses are generally not being issued. Commercial imports from any source of certain commodities are generally proh ib i ted; these include oleomargarine, used automobiles, secondhand a ir- c ra f t, certain periodicals, and goods of Rhodesian origin. Exports and Export Proceeds The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not required, and exchange receipts are free ly dispos- able. For supply reasons, the export of a few commodities to all destinations is under export control. For security reasons, the export of cer- tain specified commodities to all destinations except the Un i ted States is under export control. All exports to CMEA coun tr ies and m a in l and China are subject to control; ce r ta in nons t ra teg ic goods, when of Canadian origin, may be exported to these destinations under general permit. The export of all goods to Rhodesia, other than medi- cal supplies, news ma te r ia l, educa t ional equ ipment and ma te r ia ls for use in educa t ional ins t i tu t ions, and books, magazines, and periodicals, is pro- hibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles No requirements are imposed on exchange pay- ments for, or exchange receipts from, invisibles. Individual travelers leaving Canada may not take out more than Can$5 in silver coins. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Certain guidelines issued in 1968 apply to char tered banks and financial institu- tions w i th respect to the ir foreign assets and liabil- ities and to companies incorporated in Canada w i th respect to transfers of capital to overseas countries. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, at home or abroad. Under the Emergency Gold M in ing Assistance Act of 1948, all mines receiving subsidies are required to sell their newly m ined gold to the Royal Canadian M in t. This gold is disposed of in the free market to established wholesale dealers. Exports of gold are subject to the fo l low ing conditions: (1) the sale of gold to CMEA coun tr ies and mainland China is subject to control and requires a license from the Depa r tment of Trade and Commerce; (2) gold that originated outside Canada may only be re-exported to a country o ther than the Un i ted States when covered by a pe rm it issued by the M in is ter of Trade and Commerce under the au thor i ty of the Export and Import Permits Act; ( 3) owing to the general embargo on t rade w i th Rhodesia, no gold may be imported from or ex- ported to Rhodesia. Commercial imports of articles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold, such as watches, are unrestricted and free of license. Changes during 1969 January 7. New an t idump ing legislation entered into force. The ma in change was the introduction of the concept of "material in ju ry" to replace that of "fair ma rket value." *On May 31, 1970, it was announced that Canada would, for the t ime being, not m a i n t a in the exchange rate of the Canad ian do l lar w i t h in the ex is t ing ma rg ins. March 17. The Government announced that, in response to similar prior initiatives in other 79 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CANADA producing countries, Canada would sell wheat at prices below the m in imum levels established by the International Grain Agreement. May 7. The Minister of Finance issued a state- ment clarifying some aspects of Canada's guide- line programs limiting certain overseas invest- ments. He reiterated the March 1966 request to Canadian investors not to acquire securities of foreign issues denominated in Canadian or U.S. dollars that would be subject to the U.S. Interest Equalization Tax if purchased by U.S. residents. Henceforth this request would not apply, how- ever, to shares of mu tual or other investment companies resident or incorporated outside Canada and the United States, provided that such companies invested in Canada or the United States amounts at least equal to their sales in Canada. July 16. The Bank of Canada requested each chartered bank to regard the existing level of its foreign currency swap deposits as a temporary ceiling for that type of deposit. They were defined as deposits representing funds converted into a foreign currency, usually U.S. dollars, which have been placed on term deposit with a bank and which the bank has undertaken through a forward contract to convert back into Canadian dollars at maturity. (This request was w i thdrawn on March 30, 1970.) October 1. The Export Credits Insurance Cor- poration was replaced by the Export Development Corporation in an effort to provide more com- prehensive financing facilities to Canadian ex- porters. October 20. Legislation was introduced to pre- vent nonresidents henceforth from acquiring more than 25 per cent of the capital stock of Canadian sales finance companies. December 5. Exports of nickel in all forms to all destinations were made subject to export permits. December 19. The Government announced an embargo on exports of nickel scrap except, under permit, by primary producers. Export permits for other forms of nickel were to be issued only to nickel-producing companies. 80 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC Exchange System No par value for the currency of the Central African Republic has been established w i th the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market ra te for the currency concerned, and include a com- mission. An exchange tax of 2l/2 per cent (subject to a m in imum of CFAF 500) is levied on most exchange transactions w i th, and payments to, countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. In addition to payments to the countries mentioned, the follow- ing are exempt: (1) transactions of less than CFAF 12,500; (2) all operations relating to for- eign exchange receipts; (3) foreign currency allowances for travel to countries other than France, Monaco, or the Operations Account coun- tries; (4) government expenditures in countries other than France, Monaco, or the Operations Account countries; (5) transactions of interna- tional organizations and embassies; and (6) transactions carried out with the member coun- tries of the EEC. With the exception of those relating to gold, the Central African Republic's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, 1The CFA franc circulating in the Central African Republic is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, Chad, the People's lie of the Congo, and Gabon. Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vol t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries, except the Central African Republic itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in the Central Afr ican Republic, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance, who has delegated some of his approval au thor i ty to the BCEAEC, to the authorized banks, and to the Postal Administra- tion. All payments and receipts between the Central A f r ican Republic and foreign countries that are made through banks or postal channels are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the ins t i tu t ion executing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies concerning inward and outward pay- ments made in other manners, particularly by the offsetting of claims and debts. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Foreign and Domestic Trade. Prescription of Currency The Central African Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are 81 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts Francs.2 in Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonres ident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that ma in- tains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and import Payments The import of coffee, palm oil, g roundnut oil, potatoes, butter, cheese, and eggs from countries other than the member states of the Central Afr i- can Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) is not authorized unless local production of these commodities is inadequate. Imports of enamel- ware from all sources, and imports of certain types of footwear and paints not originating in a member coun try of the UDEAC, may be made only in given ratios to purchases of the local product, and imports of alcoholic beverages from all sources require an import authorization from the Ministry of the Interior, for health reasons. Imports of firearms are prohibited from all sources. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely and with- out an import license. All other imports from EEC countries also are free f rom quan t i ta t ive restrictions. Imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing w i th in the framework of an annual import program of an indicative character, but are not normally restricted or subject to quo ta, import licenses being required for statistical pur- poses only. There are special ceilings for imports of textile piece goods from low-wage countries. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import license entitles importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval author- ity has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- men ts for invisibles related to trade are permitted free ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange in excess of the equ iva lent of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter re tu rn to the Central African Republic must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign coun- tries, there is a special allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to certain listed countries; the allocation is CFAF 15,000 a day, up to CFAF 150,000 a trip, for business travel to any other foreign country. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner work ing in the Centfal African Republic is per- mitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a m ax imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry; they may reconvert up to CFAF 50,000 in BCEAEC banknotes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds 2 There is an inoperative bilateral payments arrange- ment with the Sudan. All exports of cotton, coffee, corn, tobacco, peanuts, palm oil, meat, and diamonds require a 82 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution license. All other exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. All exports to countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses, which are issued freely. Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated w i th in one month from the due date; the latter generally must fall within 180 days of shipment. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected w i th in a month of the due date and, if received in foreign currency, surrendered within a month of the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and -coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between the Central A f r i- can Republic and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Central A f r ican Republic; these controls relate to the transactions CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of these over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in the Central African Republic, the control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undistributed profits; the fu ll or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance unless the operation involves the relin- qu ish ing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct invest- men ts in the Central A f r ican Republic 4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from re inves tment of und is tr ibu ted profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the dec lara t ion, du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The f u ll or par t ial liquidation of direct invest- ments in the Central A f r ican Republic must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved as constituting the m ak ing of a direct investment in the Central African Republic. Both the making and the liqui- dating of direct investments, whether these are Central Afr ican Republic investments abroad or foreign investments in the Central African Republic, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in the Central African Republic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of com- panies in the Central African Republic. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in the Central A f r ican Republic that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidi- aries in the Central African Republic of foreign com- panies. 83 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in the Central Afr ican Republic requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Central African Republic Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offering for sale in the Central African Republic has pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or sub- sidiaries in the Central African Republic of jurid- ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between the Central African Republic and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 500,000 or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in the Central African Republic, or by branches or sub- sidiaries in the Central African Republic of jurid- ical persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by 84 registered banks and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation except when the amount of the loan granted abroad by the lender is less than CFAF 500,000. Under Law No. 62/355 of February 19, 1963 (as amended by Ordinance No. 69/47 of Septem- ber 2, 1969) and UDEAC Decision No. 18/65 of December 14, 1965, industrial, tourist, agricul- tural, and mining enterprises (both foreign and domestic) established in the Central African Republic are granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on the import of speci- fied equipment; in addition, certain enterprises receive exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The law also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in new enterprises or in the expansion of existing ones in most sectors of the economy, except the commercial sector. Preferen- tial treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the territory of the Central African Republic; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Equatorial Customs Union. Preferential treatment C, which contains the most favorable provisions, is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for approval for preferential treat- ment must be submitted to the Minister of Indus- try, who is the Chairman of the Investment Com- mission which considers the application. If a positive decision has been given by the Commis- sion, the proposed authorization is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment B is granted by an Act of the Board of Directors of the former Equatorial Customs Union upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dispose of gold in any form in the Central A f r ican Republic. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this re- quirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAEC and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1969 January 4. Circular No. 10/MF/CAB was issued containing detailed instructions concerning the domiciliation of import transactions and regarding import payments. January 9. Circular No. 45/MF established procedures for the domiciliation of export trans- actions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. January 20. Circular No. 83/MF amended Cir- culars Nos. 10 and 45. January 20. Circular No. 84/MF provided that monthly transfers of family remittances could be made as follows: for traders and independent businessmen up to one twenty-fourth of the prof- its declared dur ing the last calendar year; and for nonsalaried private persons who cannot demon- strate such profits, CFAF 25,000 for each benefi- ciary. January 23. Letter No. 80.331/DB-RFE was issued concerning study abroad. It established various allocations for this purpose. That for living expenses of unmarried nonboarding stu- dents was US$300 a month for the United States or the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 for other countries. February 3. Order No. 42/MF/CT completed Order No. 209/MF/CT of December 18, 1968 by providing that transfers of foreign exchange could only be made through the intermediary of an authorized bank established in the Central Afr i- can Republic. CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC March 25. Order No. 100/MECF/CAB revised the exchange allocations for travel to foreign countries. That for tourist travel was reduced from the equ iva lent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year to CFAF 50,000 a person a year. For busi- ness travel, the new allocation was CFAF 10,000 a day with a max imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip for specified listed countries, and CFAF 15,000 a day with a max imum of CFAF 150,000 a trip for all other foreign countries. The amount of BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account that residents traveling to foreign countries could take out was reduced from CFAF 50,000 to CFAF 10,000 a person a trip. March 25. Circular No. 303/MF provided that transfers abroad up to CFAF 12,500 a person a year, which could be made freely for any pur- pose, had to be deducted from the tourist travel allocation. The use abroad of credit cards was prohibited. Passports had to be marked for travel exchange granted. Exchange for business travel in excess of the basic allocations could be delivered upon special authorization issued by the BCEAEC. Travel expenses abroad paid through a travel agency were deducted from the travel allocations. March 25. Circular No. 304/MF provided fu r- ther details about the allocation of foreign exchange for travel. July 1. Decree No. 69/211 submitted to con- trol by the Minister of Finance all claims in CFA francs and in foreign currency that banks and financial institutions in the Central African Republic held on foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the BCEAEC. (This dele- gation took place on November 4, 1969 by Order No. 242/MECF/DGF.) August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, the Mala- gasy franc, and the Mali f ranc remained unchanged. September 2. Ordinance No. 69/47 amended Law No. 62/355, the Investment Code, to change 85 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC the composition of the National Inves tment Com- mission. October 22. Decree No. 69-322 authorized the National Diamond Office to resume its activities. September 19. Ordinance No. 69-48 created a national chartering office (Office National d 'A f f rè temen t s ). October 18. A number of diamond companies were closed. November 77. The BCEAEC instructed banks to ma in ta in vis-à-vis foreign countries a net for- e^n currency position that was either negative or nil. Their total claims in French francs and CFA f rancs on residents of foreign countries could not exceed the level of September 30, 1968. 86 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Exchange Rale System The par value is 0.149297 gram of fine gold per Ceylon Rupee or Cey Rs 5.95237 = US$1. Exchange rates are based on the fixed ster- ling-Ceylon rupee rate (Cey Rs 14.29 = £1) and the rates for other currencies against sterling in London. Ano ther effec t ive exchange rate of approximately Cey Rs 9.23 per US$1 arises from transactions in Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates (hence fo r th called ce r t i f ica te s ), which exporters of non t rad i t ional exports (i.e., exports other than tea, rubber, and ma jor coconut prod- ucts but in c lud ing ins tant tea) and cer ta in other earners or rec ip ien ts of fo re ign exchange are enti- tled to receive upon surrender of foreign exchange earned. Nonres ident trave lers when conver t ing foreign exchange in to Ceylon rupees at the off ic ial rate may also receive either corre- sponding certificates or the ir cash va lue in rupees. The certificates are denominated in Ceylon rupees and are issued in amoun ts equ iva lent at the o f f ic ial rate to the foreign exchange surrendered; they are t ran s fe rab le w i t h in 30 days of the date of issue. Add i t ional certificates are sold by the Central Bank of Ceylon upon demand at a price of Cey Rs 55 per ce r t i f ica te w i th a face value of Cey Rs 100; such ce r t i f ica tes are not t rans fe rab le. Cer t if ica tes w i th a face va lue corresponding at the off ic ial ra te to the amount of foreign exchange requ i red mu st be surrendered as suppor t ing docu- ments when pu rchas ing fore ign exchange for pay- men ts in respect of specified impo r ts and invisi- bles. The Cen tral Bank deals in certificates for up to f o ur mon ths fo rwa rd, at Cey Rs 56 selling and Cey Rs 54 buy ing per Cey Rs 100 certificate; transactions are pe rm i t ted only when relating to an t ic ipa ted genu ine paymen ts and receipts in for- eign exchange to which the ce r t i f ica te require- ments or privileges are applicable. Administration of Control rencies in accordance with the exchange control regu la t ions prescribed by the Controller of Exchange. Rem i t tances may also be made th rough post offices, under permits issued by the Controller of Exchange. Import and export licen- sing is hand led by the Controller of Imports and Exports, but licenses for certain industrial impo r ts are issued by the Actual Users Division of the Ministry of Indus tr ies and Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Ceylon is a member of the Sterling Area, and the regu la t ions prescribing the currencies for set- t lemen ts w i th o ther countries are similar to the regu la t ions of other Sterling Area countries. Pay- men ts to the Sterling Area may be made in any S te r l ing Area currency; and receipts from the S te r l ing Area may be accepted in any Sterling Area cu r rency. Se t t lemen ts w i th ten countries with which Ceylon has b i l a t e r al paymen ts agreements,1 with the Un i t ed A r ab Repub l ic, and (for certain trans- actions o n l y) w i th Pakistan must be made th rough the re levant special accounts. Payments to all other coun tr ies except Rhodesia may be made by c red i t ing s ter l ing or Ceylon rupees to a s te r l ing Ex te rnal Account or an External Rupee Accoun t, or in the currency of the creditor coun- t ry. Receipts f rom all other countries except Rho- desia may be accepted in sterling or Ceylon rupees f rom a s ter l ing External Account or an E x t e r n al Rupee Account, in any specified cu r rency - o ther than a Sterling Area currency, or in any nonspecified, non-Sterling Area cur- rency ma rke tab le in the United Kingdom, i.e., f r e e ly exchangeable for sterling. Transactions invo lv ing dev ia t ions from the general regulations requ i re the p r ior approval of the Controller of Exchange. Special regulations apply to settle- men ts w i th Rhodesia. Exchange control is administered by the Depa r tment of Exchange Control of the Central Bank of Ceylon, as agent of the Governmen t. A fore ign exchange budget and an import program are d rawn up annua l ly. All remittances of fore ign exchange in Ceylon mu st be made th rough banks authorized to carry out operations in foreign cur- 1 Ceylon has b i la teral payments agreements with Bul- ga r ia, m a i n l a nd Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- m a n y, H u n g a r y, No r th Korea, Poland, Rumania, Syrian A r ab Repub l ic, and U.S.S.R. 2 The specified cu r renc ies are listed as the currency of any c o u n t ry of the Sterling Area, and Aus tr ian schil- l ing s, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deu t sche m a r k, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands gu i lde r s, Norwegian k rone r, Portugese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 87 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts may be held in Ceylon by banks, corporations, or persons residing abroad. Transfers of balances in these accounts to Sterling Area Accounts or External Accounts require approval. Blocked Accounts are used for holding funds that may not be transferred abroad and that are owned by nonresidents, repatriates, and emi- grants. Such fund s, unless they originate from payments for imports, may be used for invest- ment in Ceylon in prescribed securities. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of such investments must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Also retained in Blocked Accounts is a proportion of local cur- rency earnings derived from exhibition of for- eign-owned films, if the takings exceed the amount specified in the import license; such retained funds may be used by the owner for mak ing films in Ceylon. Moratorium Accounts are accounts opened with exchange control approval in the names of nonresidents to which may be credited all invest- ment income that was subject to the 1964-68 mora tor ium on transfers of profits, dividends, interest, and other investment income. Existing balances on private nonresident accounts (other than Blocked Accounts) representing investment income that arose prior to the moratorium have also been transferred to Moratorium Accounts. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for imports by the Food Commissioner's Department and certain minor imports (such as trade samples, gifts, and books up to specified amounts), imports require individual licenses unless they are covered by a general license. Imports are divided into two groups—the A category and the B category. Imports in the A category broadly comprise basic necessities and certain specified imports of government depart- ments and government corporations. The B cate- gory includes all remaining imports. It is subdi- vided into two groups: approximately 350 commodities (mainly raw materials and producer goods) may be imported under open general 88 license; other imports are subject to quota restric- tions and require individual licenses. The value and composition of imports in the A category and of imports under quota in the B category are established by an annual import program. Imports of many nonessential or locally produced items are either prohibited or considerably restricted. The right to import is restricted to govern- ment-sponsored corporations and registered importers, although private individuals are allowed to import certain commodities for their own use, subject to special authorization. Imports of specified commodities 3 are restricted to gov- ernment or state corporations, the Cooperative Wholesale Establishment, or Lanka Salu Sala Ltd.; these are referred to as "reserved items." In order to allocate foreign exchange, applicants for import licenses are divided into three groups: ( 1 ) actual users of industrial raw materials, machinery, etc., (2) those who import other goods for their own use and not for resale, and ( 3) established importers who import goods for trading purposes. An authorized dealer may approve an applica- tion to remit foreign exchange or to credit a non- resident account when the applicant furnishes, or undertakes to furnish, evidence of importation and of the cost of the goods together with a valid importer's copy and an exchange control copy of the import license. Payment for imports in the B category requires, in addition to the rupee equiva- lent of the foreign exchange involved, surrender of certificates with a face value equal to the rupee p a ym e n t ;4 imports in the A category do not require the surrender of certificates. Imports under open general license are allowed only against letters of credit,5 and require a certificate 3 These include rice, wheat, flour, (except corn flour), unref ined sugar, refined sugar, red onion, Maldive fish, dried fish, cumin seed, lentils, dhal, cement, fodder, caustic soda, cotton yarn, newsprint and other paper products, petroleum products, and textiles and manu- factures of textile materials. 4 Certain imports financed by foreign aid are exempt. Some goods on the open general license list that are imported under commodity aid programs require a spe- cial license bearing a license fee of 35 per cent of the value specified in the license, but are exempt from the surrender of certificates. Certain imports financed by loans from international institutions are also exempt f rom certificates but require a special license bearing a fee of 20 per cent. 5 An exception to this rule are books and periodicals imported for the bona fide use of the importer. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution forward purchase contract, or the surrender of certificates, to the full value of the letter of credit at the time of its opening. A downpayment of 25 per cent or 50 per cent is mandatory on opening letters of credit for the import of truck chassis. Payments for invisibles All payments for invisibles require exchange control permission and, with certain exceptions, require surrender of certificates corresponding to the fu ll amount of the foreign payment. Exempt from surrender of certificates are (1) certain official and semiofficial travel expenditures abroad,6 (2) expenditures for certain approved courses of study abroad, (3) remittances abroad by nonnationals for fam i ly maintenance, (4) cer- tain foreign exchange expenditures for tourist and export promotion, other than business travel, (5) expenditures for approved pilgrimages, (6) cer- tain provident fund contributions and life insur- ance premiums, (7) pensions and the final remittance, on retirement, of provident and pen- sion funds, (8) expenditures of foreign embas- sies, official international organizations, and for- eign diplomatic personnel, and (9) other expenditures abroad specifically exempted from the certificate surrender requirement by the Con- troller of Exchange. Certain accumulated profits and dividends are being released for transfer abroad, over a two-year period, subject to surren- der of certificates. The remittance of life insurance premiums on policies in foreign currencies purchased by non- nationals residing temporarily in Ceylon is per- mitted, and such policies are considered as part of the assets available to them on retirement. Foreign exchange for personal travel abroad is only granted for furloughs of nonnationals. Busi- ness travel is generally limited to travel for the promotion of traditional and industrial exports and of tourism, and exchange up to a maximum of £ stg. 10 a day for a maximum period of 21 days is allowed in such cases. Exchange for pil- grimages is granted on the basis of one pilgrim- age in a lifetime. 6 When met out of the budget allocations for a govern- ment department or m in is try, a state corporation, or an institution exempt from the operation of the cer t if ica te scheme. CEYLON Exchange for educational expenses is made available only for certain courses of study that will be of positive value to the country and that are not available in Ceylon. For study in educa- tional institutions in "Asian group" countries,7 exchange up to a maximum of Cey Rs 750 a month is allowed. For study in the United King- dom, foreign exchange is made available at <£ stg. 45 a month for undergraduate studies, and £ stg. 60 a month for postgraduate studies, plus actual fees and cost of books. For study in edu- cational institutions elsewhere (other than the United States and C an ad a ), the max imum allow- able is <£ stg. 53 for unde rg radua te and <£ stg. 70 for postgraduate studies; the maxima for the United States and Canada are US$225 and US$240 for undergradua te and postgraduate studies, respectively. For travel and other expenses for medical rea- sons, exchange is authorized if a certificate is produced from a medical specialist in Ceylon and supported by the Director of Health Services that equally effective treatment cannot be obtained in Ceylon; the amount authorized will depend on the estimated cost, as certified by the specialist. Ind ian and Pakistani nationals are permitted to remit for fam i ly maintenance a max imum of Cey Rs 750 a month or one third of their gross mon th ly income, whichever is less. Other foreign nationals are permitted to remit ,£ stg. 85 a month for a wife, «£ stg. 60 for a child going to school, <£ stg. 25 for other children, and <£ stg. 45 a month less monthly income abroad for an employed child, up to a max imum of two thirds of the gross monthly income when dependents are direct ones. For other dependents, this ceiling is one th ird of the gross monthly income. When the amount claimed on this basis exceeds one th ird of the gross monthly income, the excess will be treated as an anticipatory transfer to be set off against the amount the repatriate is entitled to remit upon depa r tu re. Temporary residents on short-term contracts are allowed to remit up to two thirds of their gross monthly income. Cey- 7 The "Asian group" is listed as Aden, Afghanistan, the East African region, Brunei, Burma, Hong Kong, India, Indochina, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Pakistan, Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Saudi Arab ia, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, and United Arab Republic. 89 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON lonese nationals are not granted exchange for family remittances. Commissions up to 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value are allowed on export orders secured through agents abroad. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign exchange declared to the customs at the time of entry; they may not take out Ceylon currency notes and coins. Residents may take out Ceylon or foreign currency notes and coins not exceeding the equivalent of Cey Rs 50 a person (Cey Rs 25 for children under 12) once in 12 months, provided that they have been granted travel exchange. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Permits issued by the Controller of Exchange are required for all commercial exports. The export of some items is banned, .and that of certain others requires export licenses issued by the relevant government agency. Exports to 14 specified countries 8 are permitted to be made only by reg- istered Ceylonese traders. Rubber exports to ma in land China, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R., and tea exports to the United Arab Republic, are under state trading. Re-exports of nonmonetary gold, silver, and diamonds are allowed only in special circumstances. The Controller of Exchange issues the permit for a commercial export when he is satisfied that payment representing fa ir value for the goods has been or will be received in Ceylon under pre- scribed regulations and, usually, within four months from the date of shipment. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports must be surren- dered. Exporters of all goods other than tea (exclud- ing instant tea ), rubber, coconut oil, copra, dessi- cated coconut, and fresh coconuts are entitled to receive certificates with a face value in Ceylon rupees equal to the f.o.b. value of exports, upon surrender to an authorized bank of the foreign exchange actually earned. Exporters can use these certificates as supporting documents when 8 Albania, Austria, Bulgaria, mainland China, Re- public of China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Republic of Korea, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and Republic of Viet-Nam. 90 buy ing foreign exchange for payment of imports, or for other payments abroad, which require the surrender of certificates. Certificates are freely transferab le within 30 days from the date of issue; they have to be surrendered to an author- ized bank before the expiry of that period. Certif- icates are not transferable thereafter, but the holders can use them when making foreign exchange paymen ts within seven months from the date of issue; at the end of the seven-month period, the va l id i ty of the certificate lapses. Exporters of precious stones receive, in addition to certificates as indicated above, licenses to import raw materials (other than gold) for the jewelry indus try corresponding to 25 per cent of their export receipts. Proceeds from invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles mu st be surrendered. Receipts under the follow- ing headings entitle the recipient to obtain certifi- cates with a face value equivalent to the value of the foreign exchange surrendered to an author- ized b ank: ( 1) travel receipts; (2) insurance receipts; (3) investment income; (4) private transfers and donations; and (5) miscellaneous other inward remittances as determined, on a case-by-case basis, by the Controller of Ex- change. Nonresident travelers are eligible to receive certificates corresponding to the amount of foreign exchange converted with authorized dealers; alternatively, these may pay the traveler, in addition to the rupee equivalent of the foreign exchange sold, the cash value of the certificate. A traveler entering Ceylon must declare his holdings, including currency notes and coins. The amount of foreign funds that may be carried into Ceylon in the form of travel credit instruments is not restricted. The import of Ceylon, Indian, and Pakistan currency is not permitted; however, Ceylon notes may be imported up to Cey Rs 50, provided that evidence of prior export of such notes by the same traveler is produced. Other currency notes and coins may be taken in without restriction. Capital Investments of foreign capital are permitted in projects which are specifically approved by the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Government, or, where the capital is d rawn from a Blocked Account in Ceylon, in shares of pub l ic companies incorporated in Ceylon; capital trans- fers for direct inves tment in Ceylon are entitled to receive cer t if ica tes upon conversion of the for- eign exchange into rupees. Proceeds f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of inves tmen ts in approved projects may be repa tr ia ted, along w i th capital apprecia- tion; transfers requ ire su r render of certificates. Proceeds f rom sale or l iqu ida t ion of investments not approved by the Government may not be transferred abroad, but they may be reinvested in Ceylonese securities; the cu r rent income thereon may be remitted abroad. New foreign inves tmen ts in Ceylon that are considered and approved by the Foreign Invest- ment Approval Comm i t tee of the M in i s t ry of P lann ing and Economic A f fa i rs are also granted special fac i l i t ies in respect of remittances and tax- ation. Inves tmen ts abroad by residents are not no rma l ly pe rm i t ted. Resident-owned securities on which the princi- pal, in teres t, or d iv idends are payable (e i ther con t rac tua l ly or at the option of the ho lde r) in specified cu r renc ies must be declared to the Con- troller of Exchange, if directed by the Central Bank, and the sale or t rans fer of such securities is allowed only w i th the permission of the Minis- ter of Finance. Emigrants are not permitted capital rem i t- tances except on grounds of dire ha rd sh ip. Subject to prescribed l im i t s, the t ran s fer of their net income is allowed for one year f rom the date of em ig ra t ion, a f t er deduc t ion of any income being earned abroad, if the em ig rant is under 55 years of age. If the em ig r ant is over 55 years of age or has acqu ired fore ign c i t izensh ip, net income may be t ran s fe r red, w i t h in certain l im i t s, even a f ter one year. Repa tr ia tes leav ing Ceylon for residence in the coun try of their permanent domicile are permit- ted, at the t ime of the ir departure, to transfer assets represen t ing their re t irement funds and a reasonable amount of savings up to a maximum of Cey Rs 75,000 for Ind ian and Pakistani na t iona ls and Cey Rs 150,000 for other nation- als. However, for persons other than Ind i an and Pak is tani na t iona ls who p r ior to 1965 had already accumu la ted amoun ts in re t i rement CEYLON f u n ds in excess of Cey Rs 150,000, special pro- vision is made for t rans fe rs of amoun ts up to Cey Rs 250,000. For persons who have been in business in Ceylon, the capital they or ig ina l ly b rought in to the country p lus a reasonable amount of savings are allowed to be t rans fe r red, sub ject to the above l im i ts. Transfer of personal assets and of income thereon requ ires su r render of cer t if ica tes; exempt are ( 1) balances on p rov ident and pension f u n ds held abroad and represen t ing con t r ibu t ions in respect to contractual obligations entered in to before May 6, 1968, (2) p rov ident and pension f u n ds held in rupees in Ceylon, and ( 3) the va lue of insurance policies held abroad and taken out be fo re May 6, 1968. Special pro- visions, governed by an agreement between Ceylon and Ind ia, app ly to I n d i an fam i l ies r e t u r n i ng to I n d i a. Gold Impo r ts and exports of gold in any form requ i re licenses issued by the Central Bank. Such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone- t a ry au tho r i t i e s. The People's Bank is the sole impo r t er of gold. It sells gold in small quantities to licensed c ra f t smen and jewelers at the equiva- lent of US$60 an ounce. Small quan t i t ies are also sold to hospitals. Commercial imports of jewelry and of o ther articles containing gold are severely restricted. Changes during 1969 January 1. The import of foodstuffs was res t r ic ted to impor ters of Ceylonese nationality. January I. Pr iva te sales of tea, outside public auctions, were permitted also to Belgium, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands. Previously, they were perm i t ted only to Canada and the Un i ted States. January 7. A protocol to the trade and paymen ts agreement w i th ma in land China was signed, setting trade targets for 1969 at Cey Rs 146 m i l l ion each way. January 16. The open general license list for imports was expanded by a number of items, the ma in ones being truck chassis and teak and other types of lumber for building. 91 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CEYLON January 28. The requirement of a letter of credit for imports on open general license was waived when the importer obtained interest-free credit not exceeding one year, provided that he had prior to May 5, 1968 obtained such interest- free credit and that the transaction was registered with an authorized bank. January 30. A downpayment of 50 per cent was prescribed on letters of credit opened for the import of truck chassis. The requirement was limited to 25 per cent, however, for importers whose imports did not exceed 30 trucks a month. March 1. Two foreign banks operating in Ceylon were again permitted to accept deposits from Ceylonese nationals. Foreign banks had been prohibited from doing so since 1961. Simi* lar permission was given to six more banks later in the year. March 19. Deferred payments for imports, when exceeding 12 months, required prior approval by the Controller of Exchange. March 21. Exports of instant tea qualified for Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificates. May 5. The rebate of export du ty on teas sold at Colombo auctions was increased from Cey Re 0.05 a pound to Cey Re 0.15 a pound for medium-grown and low-grown teas; that for high- grown teas remained at Cey Re 0.05 a pound. July 11. It was announced that the financing of imports by government departments and corpora- tions by suppliers' credits with a ma tu r i ty of less than five years would not be approved. August 1. Private sales of tea, outside public auctions, were permitted to any country. September 1. Insurance in respect of teas shipped from Ceylon for sale at London auctions had to be placed with the Insurance Corporation of Ceylon; foreign exchange would not be released for insurance of such cargoes abroad. September 1. The license fee on imports under open general license, when financed under certain aid agreements, was raised from 20 per cent to 35 per cent. October 1. Most foreign payments by govern- ment departments, local bodies, state corpora- tions, research institutes, and statutory boards ceased to be exempt from the requirement to sur- render Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certifi- cates. Payments which remained exempt were specifically listed. October 1. Shipping and airline agents were instructed to open bank accounts designated "Shipping/Airline External Account" with com- mercial banks in Ceylon for receipt and disburse- ment of funds on account of their overseas prin- cipals. June 9. The export duty rebate on teas sold at Colombo auctions was put on a sliding-scale basis, ranging from Cey Re 0.05 to Cey Re 0.20 a pound. October 22. A protocol to the trade and payments agreement with mainland China set trade targets for 1970 of Cey Rs 174 million each way. June 18. The spot selling price of the Central Bank for Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certifi- cates was raised from Cey Rs 44 to Cey Rs 55 per certificate with a face value of Cey Rs 100. June 18. All imports by government depart- ments, other than food imports by the Food Commissioner's Department, were made subject to specific import license. November 1. The total of cesses levied on the export of tea was increased from Cey Rs 9.30 to Cey Rs 10.30 per 100 pounds of tea exported, reflecting an increase in the export promotion cess of Cey Re 1. November 1. The export duty on packeted tea was reduced from Cey Re 0.25 to Cey Re 0.24 a pound. 92 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Exchange System No par value for the currency of Chad has been established with the Fund. The unit of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Chadian agency of the Banque Cen- trale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks in Chad take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Chad's exchange control measures do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other coun- tries, except Chad itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Transportation supervises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Chad, and inward and outward direct investment; it also issues import and export authorizations for gold. 1 The CFA f ranc circulating in Chad is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cam- eroon, the Central African Republic, the People's Repub- lic of the Congo, and Gabon. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation, who has largely delegated his approval authority to the Directorate-General mentioned above and to the authorized banks. All payments and receipts between Chad and foreign countries that are made through banks are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the institution executing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies concerning inwa rd and outward payments made in other manners, particularly by the offsetting of claims and debts. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Transportation. Prescription of Currency Chad is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other insti- tute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with the U.S.S.R. are made through special accounts established in accordance with a pay- ments agreement. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. 93 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD imports and Import Payments Imports from all sources of wheat, wheat flour, and sugar require licenses. All other imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France may be made freely. All imports from non-EEC countries out- side the French Franc Area are subject to licen- sing in accordance with an annual import pro- gram. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a jo int French-Chadian Committee. The import program contains global quotas for imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area and a special quota for imports of cotton textiles from countries with abnormal competitive advantages. Imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Specified imports from neighboring countries not belonging to the French Franc Area ( the Libyan Arab Republic, N iger ia, and the Sud an) up to a va lue of CFAF 3 m i l l ion a year for a single importer may be made through compensa- tion transactions. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documen ts are subm i t ted to the author- ized bank. Forward cover for imports from for- eign countries is only permitted for specified commodities and requires the prior approval of the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted free ly; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval authority has been delegated to authorized banks. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when bona fide. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations 94 Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a year; any foreign exchange remaining after return to Chad must be surrendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special al- location of the equ iva lent of up to CFAF 300,000 a person a trip; the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts may issue ex- ceptional allocations in excess of CFAF 300,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes. Travelers to other coun- tries may take out any amount in BCEAEC bank- notes. A resident going abroad for less than 24 hours may not take out more than CFAF 5,000 in CFA banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try, or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; they may reconvert into foreign currency BCEAEC banknotes up to CFAF 25,000 that have been obtained from the sale of foreign means of payment that were declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia and South A f r ica are pro- hibited. All exports to non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area require licenses. Specified exports to the Libyan Arab Republic, Nigeria, and the Sudan may be made through compensation transactions. Export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Ex- port proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun- try must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received within 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within two months of the due date. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign cur- rency surrendered, w i th in two mon ths of the due date. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Opera- tions Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) and other fo re ign means of payment. Capital Capital movements between Chad and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; cap i tal t rans fe rs to all o ther coun tr ies require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun tr ies are permitted freely. All foreign securities, for- eign currency, and titles embody ing c la ims on foreign countries or nonres iden ts th at are held in Chad by residents or nonres iden ts mu st be depos- ited with authorized banks in Chad. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable or suspended insofar as they wou ld be con t ra ry to the exchange control regu la t ions) are m a i n t a i n ed over borrow ing and lend ing abroad, over inwa rd and ou twa rd d irect inves tmen t, and over the issu- ing, adver t is ing, or o f f e r ing for sale of fore ign securities in Chad; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or in t roduc t ion of foreign securities in Chad, the control measures do not app ly to re la t ions w i th France and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct inves tmen ts abroad 2 requ ire the prior approval of the Minister of Economy, Finance, CHAD and Transportation, unless they take the form of a cap i tal increase resulting from re inves tment of und is t r ibu ted profits; the full or partial liquida- tion of such inves tmen ts also requ ires the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a partici- pation th at had previously been approved as con- s t i t u t i ng the m a k i ng of a direct investment abroad. Foreign d irect inves tmen ts in C h a d3 requ i re pr ior declaration to the M in is ter of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resu l t ing from reinvestment of undistribu- ted profits; the Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects subm i t ted to h im. The f u ll or partial liq- u i d a t i on of direct inves tmen ts in Chad must also be declared to the M in is ter of Finance, unless the opera t ion involves the re l inqu i sh ing of a partici- pa t ion t h at had previously been approved as con- s t i t u t i ng the m ak ing of a d irect inves tment in Chad. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts, whether these are Chadian inves tmen ts abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in Chad, m u st be reported to the Minister of F inance w i t h in 20 days following each operation. D irect inves tmen ts are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or en terpr ise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct inve s tmen t, p rov ided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fore ign secur i t ies in Chad requires prior authori- zation by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from au tho r iza t ion, however, are operations in connec- tion w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee from the Chad ian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Chad has previously been authorized. Borrow ing abroad by physical or jur id ical per- sons, whe ther public or pr iva te persons, whose no rmal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of juridi- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requ ires prior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of 2 Inc lud ing those made th rough the i n t e rm e d i a ry of foreign companies th at are d i r e c t ly or i n d i r e c t ly con- trolled by persons in Chad and those made by branches or subs id iar ies abroad of companies in Chad. 3 In c lud ing those made by companies in Chad that are d i r e c t ly or ind i r e c t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of foreign companies. 95 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the rendering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of commercial transactions either between Chad and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by regis- tered banks; and (4) loans other than those men- tioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authoriza- tion, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Chad, or by branches or subsidiaries in Chad of jur id i- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; and (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Minister of Finance w i th in 20 days of the operation, unless the amount of the loan is less than CFAF 500,000, provided, however, that the total ou ts tand ing amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of August 26, 1963, any enterprise established in Chad, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which certain fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new 96 industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treatment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Chad. Preferential treatment B applies to enterprises whose activity and market include the territory of two or more states of the Central Afr ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC) —Cameroon, the Central Afri- can Republic, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, and, un t il 1969, Chad.4 Preferen- tial treatments A and B are granted for a period of up to 15 years. Preferential treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Requests for preferential treatment must be submitted to the Minister of Economy, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferen- tial treatments A and C are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Preferential trea tment B was previously granted by a decision of the UDEAC upon the recommendation of the Council of Ministers, but now is given by the latter. Gold Residents who are not producers of gold may not hold unworked gold unless they have obtained an authorization issued by the President on the advice of the Minister in Charge of Mines. Imports and exports of gold, whether unworked or refined, require prior authorization by the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts and by the Directorate of Mines and Geology as well as the visa of the Directorate of Foreign Trade. Exports of unworked gold and of diamonds are usually made by approved Offices for Purchases, Sales, Imports, and Exports (BAVIE). Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or 4 The procedure for obtaining preferential treatment B has been discontinued since Chad ceased to be a mem- ber of the UDEAC. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1969 January 1. Chad ceased to be a member of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). January 13. Order No. 102/FET/F listed the types of payment that could be made freely, ¿rough an authorized bank, to foreign countries. The approval authority for all other payments was delegated to the Director-General of the Budget and Public Accounts. Nonresident accounts in Chad could not be credited with BCEAEC bank- notes. All amounts subject to repatriation had to be collected w i th in two mon ths of the due date; any amounts collected in foreign currencies also had to be surrendered to authorized banks w i th in two months of the due date. Such paymen ts could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Chad. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be w i th in 180 days after arrival of the commodities at des- tination. The order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "residents," and "nonresi- dents"; France and the Operations Account coun- tries were not treated as foreign countries. January 17. The Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation delegated to the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts his approval authority in exchange con- trol matters insofar as it had not already been delegated to the authorized intermediaries. January 17. Order No. 189/F provided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in Chadian bank- notes (CFAF 5,000 for those going abroad for less than 24 hou rs ). Imports by resident or nonresi- dent travelers of Chadian banknotes, French bank- notes, and banknotes of any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year was CHAD introduced for tourist travel to foreign countries, and one of up to CFAF 300,000 a person a trip for business travel to foreign countries. The tour- ist travel allocation could not be combined with an allocation for business travel. The export of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers was freely permitted up to the equivalent of CFAF 100,000; higher amounts could only be exported if declared upon entry. Nonresident travelers could reconvert BCEAEC banknotes up to CFAF 100,000 into foreign banknotes, pro- vided that the former had been obtained by the sale of foreign means of payment that had been declared upon entry. January 17. Order No. 190/FET required prior approval to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The authorized intermediaries were exempt from this prior approval. January 17. By Order No. 192/F the Minister of Economy, Finance, and Transportation dele- gated to the BCEAEC the supervision over the positions in CFA francs and in foreign currencies vis- à-vis foreign countries of the banks and finan- cial ins t i tu t ions in Chad. January 27. Circular No. 1 established proce- dures for the domiciliation of import transactions relating to foreign countries and for payments in respect of the imports concerned. January 28. Circular No. 2 established proce* dures for the domiciliation of export transactions relating to foreign countries and for controls over the repatriation of proceeds from exports to for- eign countries. January 28. Circular No. 4 established approval procedures for payments and transfers to foreign countries. Import and export authori- zations for gold would be issued by the Directo- rate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts. Payments up to CFAF 12,500 could be made freely, w i thout indication of their pur- pose. The Circular also established the terms on which foreign exchange could be purchased for- ward. This would only be allowed for import payments but not un t il the detailed regulations were announced. The Circular also established procedures for payments for imports. Spot cover 97 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHAD for imports in advance of the actual import pay- ment could not be constituted unless the goods were financed by a documentary credit. Nonresi- dent travelers could upon departure reconvert up to CFAF 25,000 into foreign currency. The tour- ist allowance could only be taken up by persons producing travel tickets. Foreign workers could transfer their entire net salary abroad, within three months of receipt. January 28. Circular No. 5 was issued con- cerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. All overdrafts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and in general all advances to nonresidents required prior approval. January 29. Circular No. 6 provided that for- eign exchange for import payments could be bought forward for listed commodities. Contracts could be for one month at most and required the prior approval of the Directorate-General of the Budget and the Public Accounts. February 4. Letters Nos. 35-42 were issued concerning road transport, re-exports by travel- ers, delivery of means of payment to travelers, securities, l iv ing expenses for s tudy abroad, grant- ing of guarantees, salaries of off ic ia ls stationed abroad, and Foreign Accounts in Francs. February 12. Letters Nos. 84 and 85 were issued concerning the creation of an office for financial authorizations and concerning checks d rawn in CFA francs and held by Chadian banks. February 22. Order No. 536 was issued con- cerning the regulations on capital movements and infrac t ions thereof. February 22. Circular No. 120 was issued con- cerning payment for imports valued at less than CFAF 12,500. It was clarified that such pay- ments had to be set off against the tourist travel allocation. February 24. Order No. 551 was issued con- cerning the deposit requirements for foreign securities. February 24. Order No. 552 was appointing three banks as authorized banks. issued February 25. Circular No. 135 was issued con- cerning settlements in respect of insurance and reinsurance. August 7 7. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, the Mala- gasy franc, and the Mali f ranc remained unchanged. 98 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Exchange Raie System No par value for the Chilean Escudo (wh ich was introduced on Janua ry 1, 1960) has been established with the Fund. The par value for the Chilean peso established w i th the Fund on Octo- ber 5, 1953 is not applied to any transac t ions under the present exchange system. There are two exchange m a r k e t s: the off ic ial ma rket (known as the b ank ing m a r k e t) and the brokers' marke t. Only the Cen tral Bank, the State Bank, au thor ized commercial banks, and other persons or entities authorized by the Central Bank may operate in these ma rke t s; brokers are not at present permitted to operate in e i ther ma rke t. In principle, the rates of exchange in both ma rke ts are fluctuating rates, but in practice the rates are set by the Central Bank and are adjusted from time to time. Outward t rans fe rs through both markets are controlled. Through the bank ing ma rket pass government transactions, proceeds from exports, sales of exchange by the large m in- ing companies, receipts from a few invisibles, and payments for imports and for some commercial invisibles. Most invisibles and most capital trans- actions pass through the brokers' ma rke t. In gen- eral, capital transactions are entitled to the same exchange ma rket t rea tment on exit as on entry. However, the servicing and w i thd rawal of some capital received through the brokers' ma rket may be effected through the b ank ing ma rke t. Transac- tions in the b ank ing ma rket are for both spot and forward delivery at the same exchange rate; for imports of most commodities, forward exchange purchases are manda tory and export proceeds may be sold forward. For both types of transaction, settlement in escudos is effected at the time the exchange contract is negotiated. Transactions in the brokers' ma rket are for spot delivery only. There is some restriction on the ava i lab i l i ty of exchange in that the Central Bank sells exchange to the commercial banks only for forward delivery (68 days on December 31, 1969). On December 31, 1969, the exchange rate in the bank ing ma rket was E° 9.96 buying, and E° 9.98 selling, per US$1; the rate in the brokers' market was E° 11.50 buying, and E° 11.52 selling, per US$1. Purchases of exchange in the brokers' market for remittances that may be effected with- out specific au thor iza t ion by the Central Bank are subject to a 10 per cent exchange tax;1 this tax is also applied to the retransfer of certain foreign capital less than a year after entry and to the interest and prof i ts thereon.2 Administration of Control The Foreign Trade Department and the Depart- ment of In terna t ional Transactions of the Central Bank of Chile are in charge of the operation of the exchange control system. Some functions of the Foreign Trade Depar tment have been dele- gated to local commissions in important cities, and the supervision of copper exports and all imports of the copper indu s t ry has been delegated to the Copper Corporation, which is supervised by the Central Bank and the Superintendency of Banks. Impo r ts for the public sector are supervised by the in te rm in i s te r ial Import Committee for the Public Sector, on which the Central Bank is also repre- sented. Prescription of Currency The proceeds of exports by the large copper companies must be received in U.S. dollars or o ther currenc ies specifically authorized by the Copper Corporation; these companies must pay the ir taxes and cover the local costs of their pro- duc t ion in U.S. dollars. Settlements with Argen- t ina, Bolivia, Colombia, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, U ruguay, and Venezuela must be made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th each other by the Cen- tral Bank of Chile and the central bank of the coun t ry concerned, w i th in the framework of the LAFTA mu l t i la te ral clearing system. All other transac t ions w i th other countries may be settled in any currency, provided that import payments are made in the currency of the contract, irrespec- tive of the country of origin of the goods. Most paymen ts and transfers to South Africa are pro- h ib i ted. 1 Increased to 15.15 per cent (15 per cent plus 0.15 per c en t) on J a n u a ry 1, 1970. 2 On J a n u a ry 1, 1970, purchases of exchange in the brokers' m a rk et for remittances subject to prior authori- zation became subject to an exchange tax of 0.15 per cent. 99 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE Imports and Import Payments Imports from Cuba, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports, except those of the large mining companies and imports of defense materials, must be registered with the Central Bank. There is a List of Permitted Imports; commodities not appearing on it are prohibited unless imported through a "free port" zone (see below) or unless on Chile's National List negotiated within LAFTA, when such goods may be imported from within the area. Certain other commodities may be con- sidered as effectively prohibited for private impor- tation since, although on the List of Permitted Imports, they are subject to an advance deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent. Goods may nor- mally be imported in any amount. The Central Bank, however, is empowered to reject import applications (registrations), except those for goods covered by special laws, for any item on the per- mitted list if the total value of applications for imports in the previous month exceeds by more than 5 per cent the average monthly registrations for imports during the past 12 months; when appli- cations are so rejected, the Central Bank must reject registration for all commodities listed under the same customs tariff heading. This power has not been invoked since January 1966. Imports of goods not on the permitted list that are imported into "free port" zones, such as Arica, Magallanes, Aysén, and Chiloé, may not be shipped to other parts of the country unless they are first processed or assembled in the "free port" zone. Certain com- modities (including automobiles and most trucks) may only be imported into a "free port" zone for use in that zone.3 Importers may purchase forward exchange as soon as their import application has been approved. For specified commodities, importers must, within 50 days after shipment, purchase forward exchange corresponding to the full registered value of the import against immediate cash payment in local currency; this requirement now applies to about 80 per cent of private sector imports. For supple- mentary lists of imports there are extended manda- 3 A Presidential Decree of January 6, 1970, provided for the gradual elimination of v i r tua l ly all import re- strictions. 100 tory exchange cover periods of 120, 240, and 360 days. Many commodities are subject to advance deposit requirements, which must be discharged in escudos at the time of registration. The rates of deposit are 15, 30, 50, and 10,000 per cent. The following imports are exempt from advance deposit requirements: imports by the Government, the municipalities, the universities, certain speci- fied state enterprises, the large mining companies, the Chemical and Mining Company of Chile (SOQU IM ), and the fishing industry; imports financed by international organizations or under agreements for U.S. agricultural surpluses; imports on a deferred payment basis (con cobertura diferida) ; goods financed by the U.S. AID; imports into the "free port" zones; imports of foods into the principal mining area; imports to replace machinery and equipment damaged or destroyed in the 1960 earthquake; household and personal effects of travelers; personal effects of certain immigrants; household goods of returning Chileans and resident foreigners; imports not of a commer- cial character and valued at less than US$100; and imports that originate in other member countries of LAFTA and are included either in Chile's National List for LAFTA countries or in Chile's List of Special Concessions extended to Paraguay and Ecuador. These exemptions do not apply to items subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit, except for imports from LAFTA countries of goods on the Chilean National List, unless a spe- cific exemption is granted by the Executive Com- mittee of the Central Bank. The deposits are refunded upon customs clearance. Imports are subject to a registration tax of 3 per cent on the c.i.f. value. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control. Payment through the banking market is permitted for a few commercial invisi- bles; all other invisibles are settled through the brokers' market. Payments through the brokers' market may be effected up to established limits for the following purposes: for tourist travel (in addition to fa res ), up to the equivalent of US$100 a person a journey to destinations within 500 kilometers of the Chilean border, of US$360 a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution journey for travel elsewhere in Lat ín America (defined as inc lud ing Cura çao, Jamaica, and Puerto Rico),4 or of US$720 a journey outside Latin America;5 for fam i ly remittances ( inc lud ing remittances to students), up to US$200 a month for each beneficiary; for books, up to US$100 a person a month (for juridical persons o n l y ); for subscriptions to periodicals, up to US$200 a per- son a year (for juridical persons on ly ); up to US$100 a person a mon th for medicine; and up to US$50 a person a year for student registration fees. Transfers of insurance prem iums require the approval of the Central Bank, which acts on the advice of the Superintendent of Insurance Com- panies. Payments for medicine and pharmaceutical products may only be made provided that the product in question is not available in Chile. Transfers in excess of these limits, and those in respect of other transactions, require the prior authorization of the Central Bank. All purchases of exchange in the brokers' market, except those for which the Central Bank has approved a trans- fer application (solicitud de giro), are subject to a tax of 10 per cent,6 the only documentation required for such invisibles is an application form (caria petición). Residents of Chilean nationality and residents of foreign na t iona l i ty who have spent more than a year in Chile, when traveling to countries outside Latin America, are required to pay a travel tax of E° 360 a trip. Travelers may take out any amount in Chilean banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions for human i tar ian rea- sons, exports to Cuba and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. Exports of arms and related equipment to South Africa also are prohibited. Additionally, exports of some items are prohibited or are subject to quota irrespective of destination. All exports must be registered with the Foreign Trade Department of the Central Bank and the sale proceeds of exports other than those of the large mining companies are subject to surrender 4 At least US$300 in negotiable instruments and not more than US$60 in foreign banknotes, but travelers agreeing not to use the balance of their allocation may obtain US$120 in foreign banknotes. 5 At least US$600 in negotiable instruments and not more than US$120 in foreign banknotes. 6 But see footnotes 1 and 2 for two changes that came into effect on January 1, 1970. CHILE requirements. The large mining companies sell exchange to the Central Bank only to the extent needed to meet their local requirements to cover costs of production and tax liabilities. Most export proceeds subject to surrender requirements must be repatriated within 90 days from the date of shipment, and surrendered within 10 days thereafter, but for specified goods this period is extended to between 120 days and 480 days. Export proceeds sold on a spot basis must be transferred to the Central Bank; other proceeds may be sold forward between 60 days before shipment and 10 days before expiration of the obligatory surrender period. By v ir tue of Law No. 16528 of 1966, many m inor exports receive re funds of taxes and other charges included in their cost of production; these re funds amount to up to 30 per cent of the f.o.b. or c.i.f. value of such exports, depending on the product. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts of exchange from news and communi- cations agencies fees, from specified transactions by national insurance companies, from commis- sions, f rom reimbursements of insurance claims, and from credit granted in foreign currency by the commercial banks must be sold in the banking marke t. Exchange derived from other invisibles, including tourism, may be sold in the brokers' ma rket or retained. Travelers may bring in any amount in domestic or foreign banknotes. Capital Capital may be brought into Chile through either exchange ma rke t; no capital can flow out freely through either market. Normally, capital is subject to the same exchange ma rket treatment on exit as on en try; this policy applies also to remit- tances of dividends and profits on the capital. Foreign capital may enter Chile under one of three d ifferent arrangements, depending on the purpose and the type of the investment. ( 1) Article 14 of Decree 1272 (Septem- ber 7, 1962) stipulates that capital brought into the country in the form of foreign exchange (aporte de capital) may be sold freely in the brokers' market through authorized banks when 101 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE the investor (individual or corporation, national or foreign) has registered with the Central Bank. To this end, the Central Bank issues a nontrans- ferable certificate which also permits the f ree out- ward transfer of the capital through the brokers' market. The remittance of profits or interest on this capital requires the authorization of the Cen- tral Bank. If the capital is re transferred within a year of entry, it is subject to the 10 per cent exchange tax 7 levied on certain brokers' ma rket transfers; the same is t rue of interest and profits on such capital. (2) According to Article 16 of the above Decree, the investor may enter into a loan agree- ment with a Chilean individual or corporation, or into an agreement w i th a national enterprise with a view to capital participation. In these cases, the investor has an option between the bank ing ma rket and the brokers' ma rke t; the Central Bank gua ran- tees access to the exchange ma rket chosen for the entry of the capital, both for the servicing of loans and the re-export of capital, and for the rem i t tance of interest and profits. The guarantee is given sub- ject to certain conditions, one of wh ich is a mini- mum investment period of 3 years. As an applica- tion and extension of Article 16, the Executive Committee of the Central Bank on November 3, 1963 took a decision to create an additional regime to fur ther foreign investment in Chilean export industries. Under this regime, capital brought in for the promotion of exports of agri- cu l tura l, industrial, and m in ing products may be sold in the brokers' market, while its repatriation may take place in the bank ing ma rke t, provided that the amount repatriated is financed from the increase in the volume of exports resulting f rom the investment. The regime is implemented through individual investment agreements in accordance with Article 16. Repatriation of the invested capital may start 2 years a f ter en try and may amount to 12 Va per cent annua l ly of the invested capital. In addition, the remittance of interest or profits is perm i t ted annua l ly up to 7 per cent of the invested capital. The repayment of capital, and the transfer of interest or profits thereon, may be effected through the banking market, provided that the amount does not exceed 7 See footnotes 1 and 2, above. 102 50 per cent of the amount of exchange resulting from the volume increase in exports. If this cri- terion prevents the t rans fer of the full amount of amortization, interest, and profits through the bank ing ma rke t, the transfers may be completed through the brokers' market. The above privileges are only granted to firms that will not purchase foreign exchange in the bank ing market to acquire abroad any machinery, equipment, or capital goods on a cash payment basis. In a fur ther exten- sion of the regime under Article 16, on June 2, 1966, the Central Bank announced that it would guaran tee the foreign exchange for repatriation of, and earnings on, imported capital, provided that cer ta in conditions were met. These were that (a) the investment must be deemed to be of impor- tance to the Chilean economy; ( b) it must amount to at least US$100,000 or the equivalent in other currencies; (c) the capital must remain in the country for at least 3 years, and subsequent repa- triation must not be more than 20 per cent a year, on a noncumu la t ive basis; (d) the exchange must be sold in the bank ing market; and (e) the inter- est rate on credit to Chilean firms must not be higher than that in the domestic market. (3) The most impor tant law governing foreign inves tment is Decree-Law 258 of 1960, which establishes a regime both for foreign exchange transfers and long-term capital investment. A Foreign Investment Committee studies the pro- posal and the Ministry of Economy approves by decree the par t icu lar investment; the Committee establishes both guarantees regarding withdrawal of capital and remittances of interest and profits and may also give special guarantees regarding exemption f rom payment of certain import sur- charges, customs duties, and taxes. Such privileges may be granted for a period of 10 years, with extension to 20 years in special cases. Remit- tances are effected in the same market (normally the bank ing m a r k e t) through which the capital was brought in, and the investor has the right to use the exchange resulting from the export pro- ceeds of his investment. Gold Newly mined gold is purchased from the pro- ducers by ENAMI (Empresa Nacional de Mine- r ía), which, af ter refining, sells it at US$35 an ounce to the Central Bank. The latter has this gold ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution coined at the Mint. The Central Bank makes gold available to industrial users in the form of Chilean gold coins at the equivalent of US$50.97 per ounce. Gold bars may only be imported and exported by the Central Bank. The import of gold coins and of gold dust, gold leaf, and gold wire for industrial use is free of quan t i ta t ive restriction but is subject to a 10,000 per cent advance deposit requirement. Changes during 1969 During 1969 a comprehensive program of im- port liberalization was begun. Prior import deposit requ iremen ts were reduced across the board. In addition, for commodities representing about 90 per cent of the total value of imports subject to prior deposit, the requ irement was abolished; the number of goods subject to the 10,000 per cent deposit requ irement was reduced by two th irds; the manda tory deferment period for import pay- ments was e l im ina ted; and the forward delivery period for foreign exchange to cover import pay- ments was reduced from 78 to 68 days. Import duties were raised on certain goods for wh ich the deposit requirements were abolished. January 1. The advance deposit rates of 10, 20, 50, 100, and 200 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports were reduced to 5, 15, 40, 90, and 180 per cent, respectively. The registration tax on im- ports was increased from 2 per cent to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. January 16. The selling rates in the bank ing and brokers1 marke ts were depreciated from E° 7.67 to E° 7.80 and f rom E° 8.71 to E° 8.84, respectively, per US$1. January 31. The selling rates in the bank ing and brokers' marke ts were depreciated to E ° 7.92 and E° 8.96, respectively, per US$1. February 14. The selling rates in the bank ing and brokers' ma rke ts were depreciated to E° 8.05 and E° 9.09, respectively, per US$1. March 6. The selling rates, in the bank ing and brokers' marke ts were depreciated to E° 8.18 and E° 9.22, respectively, per US$1. March 20. The m in imum waiting period of 30 days from the date of shipment for transfers of foreign exchange in payment for imports was removed. CHILE March 27. The selling rates in the bank ing and brokers' ma rke ts were depreciated to E° 8.31 and E° 9.35, respectively, per US$1. April 15. The selling rates, in the bank ing and brokers' ma rke ts were depreciated to E° 8.44 and E° 9.48, respectively, per US$1. April 19. Interest payments included in pay- men ts for imports were limited to the interest rate prevailing in the exporting country and could under no circumstance exceed the prevailing New York prime rate by more th an 1.5 per cent. April 28. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' ma rke ts were depreciated to E° 8.57 and E° 9.61, respectively, per US$1. May 8. The selling rates in the bank ing and brokers' ma rke ts were depreciated to E° 8.71 and E° 9.76, respectively, per US$1. May 23. Advance import deposits were re- fund ed upon customs clearance. They could still be used to settle import duties and other fees. May 23. Exchange allocations for remittances th rough the brokers' m a rk et were revised. That for travel to La t in Amer ican countries was raised from US$250 to US$360 a person a trip and that for t ravel to countries outside Latin America f rom US$500 to US$720 a person a trip. Pay- ments for medicine, which previously were per- m i t ted w i thout l im i ta t ion, became subject to an allocation of US$100 a person a mon th. A facility of US$50 a person a year was introduced for paymen ts of s tudent registration fees. Remit- tances of insurance premiums became subject to prior approval by the Central Bank acting on the advice of the Superintendent of Insurance Com- panies; previously, there was an allocation of US$1,200 a person a year. May 23. Some 38 t a r i ff items subject to the 10,000 per cent advance import deposit require- ment were exempted from advance deposit. May 23. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 8.85 and E° 9.91, respectively, per US$1. May 23. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced from 78 to 77 days. 103 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CHILE May 26. The Andean Agreement for subregional economic integration was signed by Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. June 9. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 8.99 and E° 10.05, respectively, per US$1. June 10. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 76 days. June 18. Advance repayments under suppliers' credit agreements expiring before December 31, 1969 were authorized. June 26. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 9.13 and E° 10.21, respectively, per US$1. July 1. A reciprocal credit agreement between the Central Banks of Uruguay and Chile went into effect. 60, and from 180 to 120. In addition, advance import deposit requirements were abolished en- tirely for a number of goods. September 5. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 9.64 and E° 10.88, respectively, per US$1. September 24. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 9.73 and E° 11.07, respectively, per US$1. September 30. The tax drawback rates on ex- ports of certain products were reduced by 4 to 11 percentage points. October 10. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 9.82 and E° 11.22, respectively, per US$1. November 4. The advance import deposit rate of 120 per cent was reduced to 90 per cent. July 11. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 9.26 and E° 10.35, respectively, per US$1. November 10. The Central Bank's forward de- livery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 73 days. July 17. Some 26 tariff items subject to the prior import deposit requirement of 10,000 per cent became exempt from advance deposit. November 17. The Central Bank's forward de- livery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 71 days. July 21. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 75 days. November 21. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 9.90 and E° 11.37, respectively, per US$1. July 25. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 74 days. November 24. The Central Bank's forward delivery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 70 days. July 25. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 9.39 and E° 10.50, respectively, per US$1. July 25. A wide range of goods on the per- mitted import list became exempt from the advance import deposit requirement. August 19. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E ° 9.53 and E° 10.68, respectively, per US$1. August 29. The advance import deposit rates were reduced as follows (in per cent of c.i.f. va lue ): from 15 to 0, from 40 to 30, from 90 to 104 December 12. The advance import deposit rates were reduced as follows: from 30 to 15 per cent, from 60 to 30 per cent, and from 90 to 50 per cent. December 16. The selling rates in the banking and brokers' markets were depreciated to E° 9.98 and E° 11.52, respectively, per US$1. December 16. The Central Bank's forward de- livery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 69 days. December 23. The Central Bank's forward de- livery period for foreign exchange was reduced to 68 days. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Exchange Rale System No par value for the New Taiwan Dollar has been established with the Fund. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar are NT$40 and NT$40.10, respectively. Buying and selling rates for certain other currencies are also officially fixed, on the basis of the buying and selling rates for the U.S dollar and the par values of the currencies concerned.1 Currencies for which rates are not off ic ia l ly fixed may be ac- cepted by appointed banks, and the rates are cal- culated in accordance with the foreign market quotations. With certain exceptions, earners of foreign exchange must sell it at these rates to banks appointed by the Central Bank of China. Different effective rates may arise from an export incentive scheme (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Administration of Control The Executive Yuan is responsible for policies concerning foreign exchange and trade controls. Foreign exchange and trade matters are entrusted to the Ministries of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs and the Central Bank of China. The Ministry of Finance has general jurisdiction over foreign exchange laws and regulations, and is in charge of government remittances. The Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank of China is re- sponsible for the over-all management of foreign exchange, for the determination of the official buying and selling rates of exchange, and for the supervision of the authorized banks, of which the Bank of Taiwan is the most important. The Central Bank also licenses private remittances and capital movements. The Board of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Economic Affairs coordinates industrial and trade policies, includ- ing those relating to the import regime and export promotion, and is in charge of the issu- ance of import licenses. By delegation, the Appli- cation Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade screens applications for import licenses and issues import licenses. Export appli- 1 These currencies are Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Malaysian dollars, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. cations are screened, and export permits issued, by the Bank of China, the Bank of Communica- tions, the Farmers' Bank of China, the Bank of Taiwan, and the Central Trust of China. Most foreign exchange transactions are conducted through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Export receipts must be obtained in Australian dollars, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French f rancs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, Malaysian dollars, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dol- lars (certain exports to Viet-Nam are settled und er tied letters of credit in U.S. dollars which may be used only to finance imports from the United States other than agricultural surplus com- modities that must be exported under the barter program of the Commodity Credit Corporation). Also, these are the foreign currencies that may be used by residents of other countries to finance in- vestments in the Republic of China. The currency and method for mak ing payments to residents of foreign countries are not prescribed. Nonresident Accounts China's exchange control regulations do not provide for a clear distinction between residents and nonresidents. As a consequence, persons who would be considered nonresident under many other exchange control systems are not granted treatment essentially d ifferent from that accorded to residents of the Republic of China in exchange control matters. Accounts in new Taiwan dollars of persons who are residents of other countries are treated in the same way and are subject to the same reg- ulations as other accounts in new Taiwan dollars. The exchange control regulations do not provide for blocked balances and blocked accounts held in the name of residents of foreign countries. Residents may maintain accounts in U.S. dol- lars or Hong Kong dollars, as follows: Holders of foreign banknotes or travelers checks may have these credited to Foreign Currency Accounts, and recipients of remittances from abroad or of money orders drawn on foreign banks may have the proceeds credited to Foreign Exchange 105 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA Accounts. Balances in Foreign Currency Ac- counts may be w i thdrawn in the original cur- rency or in new Taiwan dollars, after conversion at the official buy ing rate. Balances in Foreign Exchange Accounts may be w i thdrawn in new Taiwan dollars; they may also be remitted abroad freely, w i th the exception that foreign exchange that originated in the United States may not be remitted to Hong Kong. Foreign Exchange Accounts are subdivided into interest-bearing time deposits and passbook accounts (which do not bear in te res t ). imports and Import Payments - All imports require individual licenses. For vir- tua l ly all commodities, license applications are screened, and import licenses are issued, by the Application Receipt and Dispatch Center at the Board of Foreign Trade. Exchange settlement corresponding to 25 per cent of the f.o.b. or c. & f. va lue of imports (20 per cent for raw cotton financed under the U.S. P.L. 480 program) must be made w i th in 14 days of approval of the license for all imports not tak ing place on a deferred payment or consignment basis, i.e., for all imports under letter of credit. Provided that the foregoing requ irement of a so-called performance deposit has been met, the holder of an import license is entitled to obtain the necessary foreign exchange from an appointed bank. Imports from communist countries are prohibited. The Chinese authorities license and check imports from Hong Kong in order to induce importers to obtain cer- tain imports direct from the country of production and to control effectively imports from mainland China; for similar reasons, certain commodities are not perm i t ted to be imported from Hong Kong and Macao. Certain commodities which still can be financed with U.S. aid funds (includ- ing P.L. 480 f u n d s) can be imported only from the United States. Imports are divided into three groups: ( 1) prohibited, (2) controlled, and (3) permissible. The prohibited imports comprise not only nar- cotics and some other goods excluded by most countries from importation but also a wide range of Pharmaceuticals and a number of lux- 2 Special regulations apply to imports into the Kaoh- siung export processing area. 106 ury goods and less essential items, such as certain Chinese luxu ry foods, cigarettes, cigars, liquor, jewelry, certain medicines, tea, sugar (and its subs t i tu tes), and molasses. Liquor and cigarettes are imported by a government monopoly organization, which is also responsible for domestic distribution of these commodities. The controlled list contains three types of goods: some consumer luxury items,3 certain goods that are also produced locally of good quality and in su f f ic ient quan t i ty to meet domestic demand and whose ex-factory prices are not more than 10 per cent higher than the landed, duty-paid prices of comparable imported goods; and goods subject to regulation and allocation. The first two types are licensed res tr ic t ive ly ;4 goods of the third type are often imported by government agencies, which o f fer them for sale either by allocation or by auction. Imports on the permissible list are licensed liberally and can be made by both end- users and traders. The importation of items on the controlled list is permitted only to factories and end-users. Special regulations apply to 13 commodities normally imported in bulk shipments and imports of which exceed 40,000 metric tons a year.6 They are subject to annual quotas and priority must be given to Chinese-flag vessels for their impor ta t ion. According to the intended utilization, goods may be imported by one of the three main groups of importers: government trading agencies, quali- fied pr iva te traders, and end-users and manufac- turers. Commercial imports handled by govern- ment trading agencies include chemical fertilizers, tinplate, crude oil, and automobiles. The Central Trust of China is the main government trading agency. It handles imports for government and m i l i tary organizations, public enterprises, and other customers. Another government trading agency is the Taiwan Supply Bureau, which is in charge of imports for the Taiwan Provincial Gov- 3 These include such items as made-up clothing, proc- essed foods (da iry products excepted), and consumer durab les. 4 Licenses for goods on the controlled list are liberally granted when the goods concerned are for equipping new facilities financed by external sources, e.g., hotels financed by overseas funds. 5 These are soybeans, wheat, corn, rapeseed, raw cotton, artificial fertilizers, iron ore, bauxite, phosphate rock, su lphur, gypsum, and logs. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ernment, some local industries, and certain other customers. Firms that wish to operate as authorized ("registered") importers must obtain approval ("registration") from the Board of Foreign Trade and be registered by the Taiwan Provincial Department of Reconstruction or the Reconstruc- tion Depar tment of Taipei City; the firms must be operating in accordance with certain laws and have a m in imum capital of NT$200,000 and an "export record" equ iva lent to more than US$50,000 for the last two years. Traders licensed to operate on a commission basis may act only as agents for traders or foreign suppliers. They also must be approved by the Board of Foreign Trade. End-users and m anu f a c tu r e rs are permitted to import raw materials, mach inery, and replace- ment equ ipm ent needed for their factories. In granting licenses to this category of importer, the licensing au thor i t ies take into account such crite- ria as production capacity and equipment. In processing applications for licenses to import cap- ital equ ipment for the construction of new plants, the licensing authorities consider the feasibility of the project and its pr ior i ty f rom the .po int of view of the economic needs of the country. When the capital goods concerned are available from domestic sources, import licenses usua l ly are not issued. Imports to be used for processing or pro- ducing goods for export are licensed up to requ i remen ts (e.g., raw cotton, wool, and wood for the produc t ion of p lywood). Private importers (i.e., impor ters other th an government agencies and public enterprises) handle more than 70 per cent of the imports paid for with currencies provided from official ex- change reserves. According to the methods of financing, imports may be divided into two broad categories: (1) impor ts for which exchange is allocated directly out of off ic ial exchange reserves, and (2) imports which are made w i thout recourse to official exchange reserves and which comprise (a) those made under the U.S. P.L. 480 pro- gram and (b) those paid for w i th self-provided exchange or exchange supplied by foreign in- vestors, foreign lenders, or overseas Chinese. Imports obtained with self-provided exchange are REPUBLIC OF CHINA those financed by importers out of their own for- eign exchange obtained by them prior to their coming to the Republic of China or originating f rom exchange receipts exempt from the surren- der requ i remen t. W i th the exception of mach inery and equip- ment impor ted by a produc t ive enterprise for its own use, imports f rom all sources are subject to an import su rcha rge equ iva lent to 26-30 per cent of the app l icab le customs du ty, depending on the commod i ty. The surcharge is 20 per cent on raw materials imported for processing for export, and is r e f u n d ed upon exportation. Payments for Invisibles All paymen ts for invisibles require approval f rom the Central Bank of China. Payments for inv is ib les d irec t ly related to trade are permitted freely when the basic t rade transac t ion has been approved. The t ran s fer of in teres t, profits, and earn ings on authorized foreign investments in the Repub l ic of Ch ina may be made without restric- t ion. Foreign exchange for paymen ts for certain o ther inv is ib les is allocated only up to established l im i ts or on a percentage basis. Foreign techni- c ians are allowed to remit to their dependents abroad up to 70 per cent of their basic monthly sa la ry (bonuses, prof it shares, overtime pay, and insu rance paymen ts are ex c lud ed ); remittances of larger am o u n ts requ i re special approval. Employ- ees of the Government or of educational institu- t ions may rem it to the ir dependents in Hong Kong or Macao up to HK$150 a month. Mem- bership fees of foreign ins t i tu t ions and certain paymen ts for news services, books, and maga- zines (personal subscriptions for reference pur- poses) are approved up to certain limits. Receipts f rom local subscriptions to, and sales of, impor ted newspapers and periodicals are remitta- ble up to cer ta in l im i ts. Up to 70 per cent of the net amount of motion-picture film rental and of fo re ign en te r ta ine rs' earnings may be transferred abroad; the rema inder is to be used for local expenses and inves tment in the Republic of Ch ina. A m a x im um of US$2,400 a year is pro- vided for tu i t ion and living expenses dur ing the first academic year of students studying abroad. Ind iv idu al approval is required if their total tui- 107 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA tion and expenses exceed the US$2,400 limit. Residents are granted an exchange allowance equivalent to US$300 a trip (US$150 for each accompanying dependent under the age of 12) for any approved type of travel. For business travel, an allowance equivalent to US$700 a month for up to three months is granted for living expenses. All travel allocations are net of fares and tickets. Applications for exchange to pay for certain other types of invisibles are approved on their merits. Persons leaving the Republic of China may take with them no more than NT$ 1,000 in domestic banknotes and coins and the equivalent of US$200 6 in foreign currencies. Those travel- ers who have stayed in the Republic less than six months may take with them any unspent portion of the foreign currency which they registered upon entry, and may in addition convert local currency into foreign currency up to the equiva- lent of US$200.7 Exports and Export Proceeds8 All exports require licenses, mainly in order to ensure the surrender of foreign exchange. Licen- ses may be issued only for exports to non- communist countries. The re-exportation of im- ported goods is permitted after they have been processed. Exports of sugar, rice, and salt are handled by government trading agencies. Quota limitations are maintained on the export of canned mushrooms. The export of a few food- s tuffs, including bananas and sugar, also is restricted. There are also ceilings on the export of cotton textiles to Canada, Italy, the United King- dom, and the United States. Floor prices are established for exports of citronella oil and canned pineapple. The Board of Foreign Trade is empowered to authorize exports at prices below the floor price. Manu fac tu re rs who use imported raw materials to produce goods for export are, after export of the processed goods, refunded various charges imposed on such raw materials. These charges 6 Increased to US$400 with effect from January 22, 1970. 7 This limit was lifted on Janua ry 22, 1970. 8 Special regulations apply to exports and re-exports from the Kaohsiung export processing area. 108 include import duties, defense surcharge on import duties, harbor dues, and commodity tax. Some preferential treatment is accorded to payers of income tax related to the production of goods for export, provided that the taxpayers submit satisfactory proof of such exports; complete exemption from the tax is not granted, however. With minor exceptions, exporters are required to surrender exchange earnings accruing from exports immediately after their collection. Most exports to any permitted destination may be made on a consignment or collection basis, pro- vided that payment is not deferred for more than 180 days from shipment. Subject to approval, bona fide gifts and commodity samples up to the value of US$100 may be sent abroad. When leaving the Republic of China, tourists are allowed to take out domestic products valued up to US$100 without providing evidence that they have surrendered foreign exchange. Under the rules laid down in 1956 to promote industrial exports, export manufacturers may reg- ister part of the foreign exchange derived from processed exports with the Board of Foreign Trade. Foreign exchange thus registered may be used for the import of raw materials, supplies, and machinery and equipment needed by the indus t ry concerned or it may be transferred to other manufacturers. The registered foreign exchange scheme entitles manufacturers to import for their own use, through a more convenient procedure, commodities on the controlled list, and on rare occasions commodities on the pro- hibited import list. The scheme is also extended to domestic producers of raw materials required by the same export processing industries. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange surrender requirements applicable to proceeds from invisibles are generally similar to those applicable to export proceeds. Interest, earnings, and profits on investments made by Chinese investors outside the country, and origi- nally approved by the Central Bank of China, must be surrendered to the banks, but earnings from private investments abroad that have not been financed by outward remittances may be retained. Private inward remittances may be retained by the recipients for deposit on a foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange account, from which they may be trans- ferred freely. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign currency and either hold or surrender it; the amount imported must be declared upon entry. The import of domestic banknotes expressed in new Taiwan dollars is limited to NT$ 1,000 for each traveler; a license from the Ministry of Finance is required for importing a larger amount. Capital Investments by nonresidents ( inc lud ing overseas Chinese) may be made in capital equipment or raw materials, or through the transfer of foreign currency to the Republic of China. In accordance with the Foreign Investment Law of July 14, 1954, as amended in 1959, and the Statute for Encouragement of Investment, enacted in 1960 and revised in 1965, new foreign investments approved by the authorities are guaranteed (1) unrestricted transfer of net annual profits or earned interest; (2) repatriation of capital, including reinvested earnings, 2 years after com- pletion of the inves tment plan, at an annual rate not exceeding 15 per cent, calculated in relation to the originally invested funds; (3) the right to re-export invested capital in its original form; (4) favorable treatment in respect of rezoning and requisition of agricultural land for industrial use; (5) certain benefits with respect to business income tax and import duties; and (6) compensation for expropriation where the foreign investment constitutes less than 51 per cent, and immun i ty from expropriation for 20 years where the foreign investment constitutes at least 51 per cent, of the total inves tmen t. In addi- tion, foreign investments are granted treatment at least as favorable as that accorded to new domes- tic investments. Laws for the encouragement of foreign investments provide for additional benefits in specific cases. To obtain the benefits of the investment laws, investments by nonresidents must be made in enterprises conducive to the economic and social development of the country, such as mining, communications, and manufacturing for domestic needs. Preference is given to foreign investors who intend to produce goods for export or for replacing imports. REPUBLIC OF CHINA Nonresidents (including overseas Chinese) who intend to make investments in Taiwan stocks and wish to take advantage of privileges provided under the foreign investment laws, as described above, must obtain approval from the Ministry of Economic A f fa i rs. Purchases and sales of stocks by nonresidents must be made through the inter- mediary of registered brokers, such as the Trust Department of the Bank of Taiwan and the Trust Department of the Central Trust of China. Subject to approval, direct investments may be made outside the Republic of China in the form of technical know-how, semifinished products, locally manu fac tu red equipment, and remittances of foreign exchange. Portfolio investment abroad by residents who are private persons is not nor- ma l ly permitted. Chinese nationals who wish to emigrate, and persons who had settled in the Republic of China and wish to re tu rn to their native countries, are not accorded any special transfer facilities in respect of proceeds from the liquidation of their assets in the Republic. Persons outside the Republic of China who acquired in the Republic assets or balances in new Taiwan dollars on account of dowries, inheritances, gifts, etc., are not normally granted the right of transferring them from the Republic. Gold Residents may hold gold in any form, but they may sell it only to the Central Bank of China, at the official price of NT$448.00 per 10 grams of fine gold. They may not use it as collateral for loans. Producers of gold must surrender their ou tput to the Central Trust of China to have its fineness reduced to 0.875. Gold of this fineness is then auctioned to registered goldsmiths,9 who are permitted to sell only ornamental gold of a fine- ness less than 0.875. The importation of gold for investment purposes, etc., is subject to the approval of the Central Bank of China and both its importation and auctioning must be handled by the Central Trust of China. Travelers may bring in any amount of gold. Residents may 9 At a floor price of NT$ 1,570 per 1.00471 ounces of 87.5 per cent fineness gold, equivalent to US$44.60 per troy ounce of 99.9 fineness. 109 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution REPUBLIC OF CHINA freely take out gold in the fo rm of jewelry, pro- vided that its weight does not exceed 2 shih Hang, i.e., 62.5 grams. of soybeans, wheat, and corn. Priority was to be accorded to Chinese-flag vessels in the shipment of these commodities. Changes during 1969 January 1. The Foreign Exchange and Trade Commission was abolished. Its func t ions were taken over by the Ministries of Finance and Eco- nomic A f f a i rs and by the Central Bank of China. A Foreign Exchange Department was established in the Cen tral Bank of China to assume the man- agement of foreign exchange. A Board of Foreign Trade, w i th in the Ministry of Economic Affa irs, was charged w i th the screening of import applica- tions and the issuing of import licenses; these func t ions were delegated to an Application Receipt and Dispatch Center. The screening of export applications and the issu ing of export licenses were entrusted to the Bank of Ch ina, the Bank of Communications, the Farmers' Bank of China, the Bank of Taiwan, and the Central Trust of China. February 20. Floor prices for exports other than citronella oil and canned pineapple were suspended. March 3. Imports of 13 bulk commodities (commodities, imports of which exceed 40,000 metric tons a year and which lend themselves to bulk transpor ta t ion in shiploads) were subjected to annual volume quotas and mon th ly spacing of bu lk cargo en try. These commodities were soy- beans, wheat, corn, rapeseed, raw cotton, a r t i f ic ial fertilizers, iron ore, bauxite, phosphate rock, sul- phur, gypsum, and logs. Joint procurement for each commodity, either through a procurement agency or a procurement committee set up under trade associations was stipulated for imports by private enterprises as end-users. The nonagricul- tural items were previously confined to govern- ment procurement, and for these items the desig- nated volume corresponded to the budgeted value of imports. For the agricultural items, permitted imports would be coordinated with domestic pro- duction, in view of the rapid increase in imports May 22. Exports of cement were restricted and certain imports of cement were temporarily per- m i t ted. July 1. The export surcharge on bananas, mushrooms, and asparagus was reduced from 5 per cent to 3 per cent. July 24. Importation on a documents against paymen ts or documents against acceptance basis was perm i t ted to end-users for machinery and equ ipment and to registered importers for mach inery, equipment, and raw materials for chemical products, provided that no interest charge is included in the price. Previously, docu- men ts against acceptance and documents against payment terms were restricted to private industrial and m in ing firms and were limited to the ir imports of raw materials for which the for- eign suppliers had already designated agents or established branches in China. August 11. Official buying and selling rates were set for the Swiss franc. August 18. Importation on a consignment basis was perm i t ted to registered importers. Previously it was restricted to end-users. August 18. The deposit requirement for the opening of import letters of credit was reduced from 50 per cent to 25 per cent. October 1. The exchange allowance for busi- ness travel was raised from US$500 to US$700 a mon th. November 14. The restrictions on the export of cement were removed. December 9. The bilateral payments arrange- ment w i th Spain was terminated. Settlements had already been on a convertible currency basis for several months. December 13. Imports of certain truck chassis were suspended. 110 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA Exchange Rate System On December 17, 1948, a par va lue for the Colombian Peso was established by Colombia with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All exchange transactions are effected through the Bank of the Republic or the author- ized banks in the official ma rke t — the exchange certificate marke t, in which the rate fluctuates. On December 31, 1969 the average selling rate in the certificate market was Col$ 17.93 per US$1. The peso equ iva lent of the Government's exchange receipts from the export tax on coffee is credited to the Treasury's Special Exchange Ac- count at the central bank's accounting rate of Col$17.60 per US$1; the Government purchases exchange for all public debt paymen ts at the same exchange rate. There are also certain other ef- fective exchange rates. The d i f fe rent exchange rates and the types of transaction to which they apply are set out in the Table of Exchange Rates, below. On December 31, 1969, the fluctuating buying rate for proceeds from coffee exports (a f ter tak ing into account a 20 per cent exchange tax) was Col$ 14.28 per US$1, and that for most other exports Col$20.51 per US$1. All imports are pa id for at the cer t if ica te ma rket rate. All payments and receipts in respect of cu r rent invisi- bles and capital also take place at that rate. Administration of Control All imports and exports require prior regis- tration at the In s t i tu te of Foreign Trade ( iNCOME x ). Exchange for paymen ts must be purchased through the Bank of the Republic or the commercial banks, w i th an approved ex- change license issued by the Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic. The Monetary Board periodically draws up a foreign exchange budget. It also establishes priorities w i th in that budget for the delivery of exchange, after setting aside the amounts necessary to cover the obligations of the Bank of the Republic and to service the ex- ternal debt of the public agencies and the Na- tional Federation of Coffee Growers. Over-all import and export policy is determined by the Foreign Trade Council. The Ins t i tu te of Foreign Trade, through its Import Board, controls imports that are subject to prior licensing. The National Council for Economic and Social Policy issues directives concerning direct investment in Colom- bia to the Exchange Office and the National P lann ing Department, which evaluates new proj- ects. The Exchange Office of the Bank of the Republic keeps an accounting record both of foreign inves tment in Colombia and of debts abroad, and controls the movement of foreign capital as well as the t rans fer of profits, dividends, commissions, and royalties for t radema rks and patents. The Superintendency of Exchange Con- trol, which is an autonomous agency reporting direct to the Presidency of the Republic, enforces control and supervision over exchange transactions and is responsible for app ly ing pena l t ies for violation of the exchange regulations currently in force. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts related to in terna t ional transac t ions are normally effected in U.S. dollars. Se t t lemen ts w i th Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Spain, and Ruman ia for commercial transac t ions must be made through a clearing account in accordance w i th the provisions of the re levant b i la te ral payments agreement. The Na- tional Federation of Coffee Growers has con- cluded paymen ts agreements with Bulgaria and Yugoslavia. Paymen ts between Colombia and Argen t ina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, and Vene- zuela are made through accounts ma in ta ined w i th in the f ramewo rk of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system.1'2 Nonresident Accounts Credit establishments are authorized to receive short-term deposits in foreign currency from physical or ju r id ical persons not resident in Colombia, and these deposits are freely available to the holders, but any foreign currency deposits 1 On J a n u a ry 2, 1970 a reciprocal credit agreement between the central banks of Colombia and the Domini- can Repub l ic went in to effect. 2 On J anu a ry 1, 1970 a reciprocal credit agreement with U ruguay entered into force. in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA that they may wish to convert into Colombian cur- rency must be sold to the Bank of the Republic. Before releasing the accounts of nonresidents, banks must obtain prior authorization from the Exchange Office. Importo and Import Payments Imports are classified as follows: goods whose import is prohibited; goods whose import is sub- ject to prior licensing by the Institute of Foreign Trade; and goods that may be imported freely without license. In this last category, there is a global free list applicable to all countries and a National Free List applicable to LAFTA coun- tries only; the latter contains all commodities that are on the global free list as well as some addi- tional ones. These liberalized imports cor- responded to about 18 per cent of 1969 reimburs- able imports; they comprise mainly certain raw materials and some types of machinery. All im- port registrations by public sector agencies are screened by the Institute of Foreign Trade to determine whether local substitutes are available. The prohibited list comprises mainly such items as arms and habit-forming drugs, certain food- stuffs, such as corn and milk, certain textiles and garments, jewelry, and a number of other con- sumer goods; imports of goods on this list are licensed from time to time. Prior registration of the import transaction at the Institute of Foreign Trade is required for all imports other than those with an f.o.b. value of less than US$20 (or US$40 for books and Pharmaceuticals). The charge for import registra- tion is Col$ 100.00 (in some cases Col$5.00) plus a consular invoice tax of 1 per cent. Advance im- port deposits in Colombian currency must be made with the Bank of the Republic before import registration is permitted; the deposit is returned 90 days after the goods have cleared customs. The advance import deposit is payable at one of many rates, depending on the type of goods; those important in practice are the rates of 1, 5, 10, 30, 70, and 130 per cent. The following imports are exempt from prior deposits: nonreimbursable imports (i.e., goods for which no foreign exchange is required); imports brought into Colombia under special import-export arrangements (Valle jo Plan); 112 goods included in the Colombian National List and the special lists granting concessions to LAFTA countries; goods financed with credits having a maturity of at least 40 years,3 noncom- mercial capital goods and components imported by the Government, Departments, municipalities, official undertakings, semiofficial bodies, and public service agencies, and noncommercial goods when intended for mineral exploration or ex- ploitation; goods imported by the National Fed- eration of Coffee Growers for its own use; goods exempt by virtue of an international agreement; capital goods, components, and raw materials imported by firms sponsored and supported by the Government, and firms holding foreign com- mitments backed by the Government; machinery and equipment coming under the tariff headings for the basic industries; goods of prime necessity imported by the Institute of Agricultural Market- ing ( ID EMA ); most imports by universities and other nonprofitmaking educational institutions; scientific and literary books, newspapers, and reviews that made a contribution to the culture of the Colombian people, together with capital goods for the production of such items; and sacramental wine. The advance deposit is calculated on the f.o.b. value of the goods, at the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the previous month. A prior exchange license is required for all payments for imports; licenses are granted by the Exchange Office, provided that it is satisfied that the goods have been cleared through customs and that payment is due. At least 20 days prior to filing an application for an exchange license, the importer must provide a peso advance de- posit equivalent to 95 per cent of the exchange requested, calculated at a rate announced monthly by the Ministry of Finance on the basis of the average exchange certificate price for the preced- ing month. Exempt are import payments by the Government, Departments, municipalities, and official agencies, and payments for imports fi- nanced with foreign credits extended to the Bank of the Republic, goods for general consumption imported by the Institute of Agricultural Market- 3 Goods so financed that are included in the import free list require an advance deposit of 10 per cent of the deposit payable on the same commodities when not imported under such credits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing, payment for the crude oil acquired by the national petroleum company (Empresa Colom- biana de Petr óleos —ECOPETROL) for refining in Colombia, imports financed by U.S. AID credits, and payments made by letters of credit charged to the bilateral accounts maintained with certain European countries. Import duties are calculated at the effective exchange rate applicable to the advance sur- render of export proceeds from commodities other than coffee. In addition to customs duties, there is an ad valorem tax on imports equal to 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Of the amounts collected, 50 per cent goes to the Export Promo- tion Fund, while the remaining 50 per cent goes to the National Coffee Fund. Exempt from this tax are imports by public entities, goods of LAFTA origin, and imports under the Vallejo Plan. Importers of goods financed by the U.S. AID are required to ship at least 50 per cent of the total volume of shipments on Colombian flag ships. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are made at the ex- change certificate rate. All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange licenses, which are granted according to officially established pri- orities determined by the Monetary Board. No advance payment deposit is required for invisibles, except for travel allowances, for which a 50 per cent prior deposit in local currency is required,4 and for payments of interest on certain loans, for which the prescribed deposit is 95 per cent. Payments for travel abroad are limited to US$30 a person a day, not to exceed US$1,350 a person a year; this limit may be raised to US$70 a day and US$6,300 a year when the travel may be especially beneficial to the country; transfers to professionals and technicians undertaking courses abroad are restricted to US$450 a month for up to 12 months, while for other stu- dents the ceilings vary from US$120 to US$200 4 The deposit, which is calculated on the basis of the average selling rate for exchange certificates for the pre- vious month, must be made when application is made for the foreign exchange and it is released upon the traveler's return to Colombia, provided that he has stayed abroad the number of days for which he was granted exchange. COLOMBIA a month, depending on the cost of living in the country concerned. Foreign tourists who have stayed in Colombia for a period not exceeding three mon ths may, on leaving the country, pur- chase foreign currency not exceeding US$60 on presentation of their boarding pass. Colombian nationals and resident foreigners are required to pay a travel tax of Col$500 whenever they leave the country. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of Colombian products may be made freely, except when the law provides otherwise. There is a list of exports that are either prohibited or are subject to special requirements. Prior ap- plication for registration is required for all exports except crude oil, samples, and Colombian prod- ucts in noncommercial quantities. If the appli- cation meets all legal requirements, approval is stamped on the application form, i.e., registration is granted. When registering an export transaction, the exporter must provide either a personal guarantee in pesos (but without depositing any amoun t) corresponding to the fu ll export value or a bank guarantee (usually for 30 per cent of the same v a lu e ), to ensure that the proceeds will be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. The periods for surrendering export proceeds are as follows: (1) for coffee exports, within 20 days from the date of registration of the sale contract, if the said contract is used with shipping docu- ments inside the country, and within 10 days from the date of the bill of lading if the contract is used with that document; (2) for banana ex- ports, 60 per cent of the value must be surren- dered within 10 days following the registration of the export, and the remaining 40 per cent within 60 days after the registration; (3) for exports of products containing imported raw materials, 180 days from the granting of registration; and (4) for other exports, generally within 90 days from the same date. The Bank of the Republic is empowered in certain cases to retain a portion of the exchange proceeds surrendered by the exporter of any product to repay old foreign debts incurred by the exporter concerned. All exchange proceeds from exports, except those from the export of crude oil not produced by ECOPETROL, must be surrendered to the Bank of the Republic. 113 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA On surrendering their export proceeds to the Bank of the Republic, exporters of commodities other than coffee, petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, and cattle hides receive tax credit certifi- cates in an amount of 15 per cent of the total earnings surrendered, converted at the exchange rate used for import deposits. These certificates, which are freely negotiable and are quoted on the stock exchange,5 are accepted at par one year a f ter issuance by tax offices for the payment of income tax, additional taxes, customs duties, and sales taxes. The surrender of foreign currency earned by exports is carried out by exchanging the foreign currency for exchange certificates that are negoti- able in the bankers' market. The certificates have a validity of 5 days to 10 days, a f ter which they must be surrendered to the central bank at 90 per cent of the lowest certificate rate quoted by the Bank in the preceding week. The surrender price for exports other than coffee varies with fluctuations in prices in the world ma rke t. Coffee exports are subject to the following additional regulations: (a) A minimum surrender price (reintegro) is fixed, af ter deduc- tion for freight and insurance, at US$83.60 per 70-kilogram bag. ( 2) Exporters pay a tax in for- eign exchange at the rate of 20 per cent ad valo- rem. Of this tax, 4 percentage points are paid to the National Coffee Fund while the remainder provides revenue for the Treasury's Special Exchange Account, of which the net product forms a contribution to the national budget. The Special Exchange Account is credited at the Bank of the Republic's accounting rate of Col$17.60 per US$1. (3) Exporters must either surrender in kind to the National Federation of Coffee Grow- ers and without payment the equivalent of 25 per cent of the volume of excelso coffee that they wish to export (retenci ón) or pay the Federation the peso equivalent. (4) Exports of coffee are subject to an additional tax of 6 per cent ad valo- rem (pasilla t a x ); the tax must be paid, either in kind or in pesos, to the Federation. (5) A com- mittee composed of the Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the Managing Director of the 5 At the end of 1969, certificates just issued were quoted at a discount of about 18 per cent. 114 Federation establishes domestic buying prices for the various grades, expressed in pesos per arroba of 12.5 kilograms. (6) Whenever the domestic support price, net of taxes and freight, exceeds a level of about Col$l,300 per 125 kilograms of parchment coffee, corresponding to a spot New York price of US$0.57 a pound, the excess (net of taxes and levies) is shared among producer, Coffee Fund, and local producers' committees in a ratio of 35:30:35; in that event, the retención is to be increased and the proceeds of the increase are paid to the Coffee Fund and the producers' committees. Anticipated export proceeds from coffee may be provisionally surrendered in advance of actual surrender (when prefinanced by foreign buyers) provided that the latter takes place within 120 days of the provisional surrender, at a provisional exchange rate of Col$15.50 per US$1. Advance surrender of anticipated export proceeds from products other than coffee may be made at the average rate of exchange certificates for the pre- vious mon th, as determined by the Ministry of Finance, provided that the actual surrender takes place w i th in 12 months of the provisional surren- der, or within 24 months if the export value exceeds US$500,000. The payment to the exporter is subsequently adjusted for the effective exchange rate applicable on the day of actual surrender. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered; they are converted at the certificate market buy ing rate. Capital All inward and outward capital transfers are effected at the certificate market rate. All foreign investment in Colombia, all new foreign loans,6 and the movement of capital pre- viously imported (except loans previously regis- tered under Decree No. 2322 of September 2, 1965) must be registered with the Exchange 6 Suppliers' credits do not require registration; their repayment is authorized by the exchange license cover- ing the relevant import transaction. Such repayment, however, is subject to the 95 per cent prior deposit. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Office of the Bank of the Republic.7 Capital imports in amounts of US$100,000 or more and capital imported for petroleum exploration or exploitation, or for other mineral exploration, also require prior approval by the National Plan- ning Department in accordance with directives issued by the Na t ional Council for Economic and Social Policy; capital for the petroleum indus try or for other mineral exploration in addition requires approval by the Ministry of Mines and Petro- leum. Capital registration entitles the investor to export profits and to repatriate capital at the cer- tificate market rate on certain conditions specified in Resolution No. 9 of 1968.8 The transfer of profits is limited to 14 per cent of the net capital value in any one year (s tar t ing with profits earned in 1968), except for profits resulting from investments of ou ts tand ing importance or involv- ing special risks in view of the circumstances pre- vailing in the in terna t ional money market. If in any year the earnings remitted arc less than 14 per cent, the balance may be remitted in subse- quent years, provided that the additional remit- tances do not exceed 3 per cent a year. New investments may be granted exemptions from import du ty and from advance deposit and import license requirements. Capital invested in the petroleum indu s t ry is subject to special rules and to contractual provisions. Contracts involving royalties, commissions, trademarks, pa ten ts, and s im i lar arrangements must be registered w i th the Exchange Office to enable the beneficiary to make transfers abroad. They requ ire approval by the Royalties Commit- tee before they can be registered. Colombian nationals who have invested abroad must surrender to the Bank of the Republic not only the interest, profits, commissions, and royal- ties but also the proceeds of the sale or liquida- tion of the principal investment at the prevailing certificate market rate. Exports of capital by resi- dents are restricted and such exports by private individuals are not normally permitted. 7 As at the end of 1969, the registration of certain foreign investments and of old contracts invo lv ing pay- ment of royalties, commissions, trademarks, patents, etc., had not yet been completed. 8 Profits earned before December 31, 1966 may be remitted in f u ll before registration is completed, upon proof of the investment's foreign origin. COLOMBIA A peso advance deposit corresponding to 95 per cent of the exchange requested is required for repayments of pr inc ipal and payment of interest on certain pr iva te loans and on private suppliers' credits. Gold Physical and jur id ical persons may trade in Colombia in gold coins for collection purposes only. With th is exception, only the Bank of the Republic is entitled to purchase, sell, hold, import, or export gold. The Bank of the Republic purchases the gold produced in the coun try at US$35 an ounce and is empowered to pay up to 50 per cent in foreign currency on presentation by foreign capital m in ing companies of exchange licenses en t i t l ing them to make paymen ts abroad for services, d iv idends, capital repayments, taxes, etc. The rema in ing 50 per cent and all payments to the small producers are paid in pesos at the cer- tificate ma rket exchange rate. On selling their gold to the Bank of the Republic, the producers receive tax credit certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the value of the gold sold. The certificates held by the small producers are bought by the Bank of the Repub l ic in Colombian pesos at the ir nom inal value. When the Bank sells newly m ined gold abroad at market prices in excess of US$35 an ounce, it reimburses the producer for the d i f fe r- ence. The Bank of the Republic makes domestic sales of gold for indus tr ial use either direct or through the Colombian M in ing Association, on presentation of licenses issued by the Superintend- ency of Exchange Control, at a price equivalent to the average quotation in the free external gold marke ts du r ing the previous month plus a sales tax of 15 per cent; this price is translated into pesos at the prevailing selling rate of exchange certificates on the date of sale. The Bank's exports of gold are made at world market prices and the excess over its purchase price of US$35 is paid out to the producers who have supplied the gold. Imports of gold also are a monopoly of the Bank of the Republic; imports of nonmonetary gold are not normally unde r taken. The assay and refining houses and the mining companies producing gold are under the supervi- sion of the Superintendency of Exchange Control. In addition, the mining companies must obtain a 115 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA license from the Superintendency in order to carry on their operations. The Bank of the Republic from time to time strikes commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Residents and nonresidents may freely buy such coins, but export licenses are not normally granted. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1969) Buying Selling (pesos per U.S. dollar) 14.28 (Certificate Market Rate less 20% Ex- change Tax, Fluctuating Rate) Coffee exports.9 17.60 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Conversion of Government's receipts from ex- change tax on coffee exports. 17.85 Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) Net proceeds from exports of crude oil and petro- leum derivatives (Article 158 of Decree-Law No. 444). 10 Exports of cattle hides. Exports from free ports. All receipts from invisibles and capital transfers. 20.51 (Average Certificate Market Rate of Previ- ous Month plus 15% Tax Credit Certifi- cates, Fluctuating Rate) All other exports.9'11 Changes during 1969 During the year, the authorities continued to reduce, on many occasions, the advance deposit requirements for imports by shifting commodities to groups subject to a lower rate of deposit; these reductions in deposit rates affected about 270 tariff positions. There were relatively few changes in the import free list. The amount of import licenses issued was considerably larger than in 1968. The m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was changed frequently, rising from US$61.50 to US$83.60. The selling rate in the certificate exchange market was gradually depre- ciated from Col$ 16.95 to Col$ 17.93 per U.S. dollar. January 1. The Bank of the Republic based its domestic sales of gold for industrial use on the world market price instead of US$35 an ounce, as previously. 9 Advance surrender of export proceeds may result in different effective rates; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above. 10 Receipts from exports of crude oil by foreign-owned companies need not be surrendered. 11 The Bank of the Republic purchases gold from domestic producers at a price corresponding to the world 116 9.00 (Fixed Rate) Purchases of crude oil from foreign-owned com- panies in Colombia for domestic refining.12 17.60 (Accounting Rate of Bank of the Republic) Government's purchases of exchange for servicing of public debt, diplomatic expenses, etc. 17.93 (Certificate Market Rate, Fluctuating Rate) All other transactions.13 January 29. The peso advance deposit equiva- lent to 95 per cent of the value of exchange applications was not required for transactions involving payments for diplomatic services abroad, contributions to international organiza- tions, and for payments on public debt and other obligations of the Government and public entities; debt service payments by the Bank of the Repub- lic and the National Federation of Coffee Grow- ers; and servicing of external loans guaranteed by the Government or the Bank of the Republic or of contracts with international financial organiza- tions or official foreign credit institutions. January 31. Import prohibitions applicable to the following goods were lifted: packing contain- ers of paper or paperboard; various sieves; mir- rors; trailers; television sets; gramophone records; cleaning agents for iron and steel products; pre- pared animal feedstuff s ; soup extracts and edible market price of gold, calculated at Col$20.51 per US$1. 12 This rate is also used as a computation rate to de- termine the price in pesos which ECOPETROL receives for its domestic sales of crude petroleum. 13 Different effective rates arise from the application of advance deposit requirements to sales of exchange for travel purposes and for certain interest payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution oils; evaporated m i lk; and preparations of vegeta- bles. February 5. The advance surrender of export proceeds from products other than coffee could take place at Col.$16.50 per U.S. dollar. March 5. It was announced that, with effect from January 1, 1969, the import duties on petrochemical products specified in concession lists and imported from Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, and Peru were to be reduced annually by 20 per cent of the original rate. These com- modities remained subject to the consular invoice tax of 1 per cent, but were exempt from advance deposit requirements and payment of the ad valo- rem tax of 3 per cent of the c.i.f. value of imports. March 7. Imports of crude soya oil, certain coated and oiled fabrics, and certain equipment for manu fac tu r ing gramophone records were pro- hibited. The prohibition to import certain pre- pared vegetables, dried grapes, soups and broths, and a few organic chemicals was lifted. March 21. The minimum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced from US$61.50 to US$60.25 per 70-kilogram bag. April 11. Decree No. 518 defined the internal organizational structure of the Superintendency of Exchange Control and the functions of its branch offices. April 18. The retention quota (retención) was raised from 20 per cent to 23 per cent of the volume of intended exports of excelso coffee. April 18. The m in imum surrender price for coffee exports was reduced from US$60.25 to US$58.70 per 70-kilogram bag. April 21. Exchange Office Resolution No. 1 required all residents holding securities or real estate abroad to register these assets by Octo- ber 20, 1969. April 23. The Bank of the Republic was authorized to contract the minting of gold coins commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Battle at Boyacá, up to an amount of 1,100 kilo- grams of fine gold. With effect from August 7, 1969, these coins were freely sold to residents and nonresidents. May 7. The maximum permitted effective interest rate for loans taken up abroad with COLOMBIA maturities of up to one year was raised from 8V4 per cent to 9 per cent per annum. May 14. All existing and f u t u re liabilities in convertible currencies to nonresidents were required to be registered with the Bank of the Republic, provided that their maturity was not less than three years. Transfers of amortization and interest payments were subsequently to be made in the registered currency. May 22. The Andean Agreement for subre- gional economic integration was signed by Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. May 29. The local currency deposit required in respect of exchange applications by residents wishing to travel abroad was reduced from 100 per cent to 50 per cent of the foreign currency purchased. May 30. Establishments other than banks, such as hotels, exchange houses, and tourist agencies and stores situated in airports or frontier regions, which regularly receive foreign exchange, were required to register with the Superintendency of Exchange Control within 30 days. June 11. The max imum permitted effective interest rate for credit taken up abroad with ma tur i t ies of up to one year was raised to 10 per cent per annum, whereas the corresponding maxi- mum rate for loans with longer maturities was raised from 9Y2 per cent to \Ql/2 per cent per annum. June 19. Domestic gold sales by the Bank of the Republic for industrial use were to be under- taken at a price equivalent to the average quota- tion in the free external gold markets during the previous month, without any additional charges except for a sales tax. June 19. The advance surrender of export pro- ceeds from products other than coffee was to take place at an exchange rate equal to the average buy ing rate for exchange certificates in the pre- vious month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance on a mon th ly basis. July 21. It was announced that at least 50 per cent of the volume of exports shipped from and imports shipped to Colombia should be carried by Colombian flag ships, provided that the respective routes were served by such vessels. The decree took effect on October 9. It was applied only to goods financed by the U.S. AID. 117 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COLOMBIA August 20. The exchange rate applicable to the payment of the local currency deposit required in respect of exchange applications by residents wishing to travel abroad was defined as the average price for exchange certificates for the previous month, as determined by the Ministry of Finance. August 23-November 7. In view of the steep rise in the in te rna t ional price of Colombian coffee, the m i n im um surrender price for coffee exports was gradually raised, on eight occasions, from US$58.70 to US$83.60 per 70-kilogram bag. September 10. Resolution 48 clarified certain procedural aspects relating to the local currency deposits for travelers' exchange applications. W i th in six months af ter the approval of an exchange license, travelers were required to prop- erly document their stay abroad and the utiliza- tion of the exchange license; on application, this period could be prolonged by 90 days by the Exchange Office. In case such documentation was not presented in due time or if improper use of the license was proved, the fu ll deposit, or a part thereof, was to be transferred to the Treasury. October 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Venezuela entered into effect. October 22. The Exchange Office could not register loans taken up abroad in convertible cur- rencies other than U.S. dollars unless their matu- rity was at least three years and the half-yearly repayments on such loans did not exceed one sixth of the principal. Debt service on such loans was to be effected in the same currency as the one in which the loan was received. October 22. Exchange licenses were issued freely for subscriptions to foreign newspapers and scientific or technical journa ls, for membership fees in scientific and technical societies, and for books mailed direct to the addressee, provided that the va lue of such books did not exceed US$40 and that they did not constitute fractional imports. October 23. The retention quota (retención) was raised from 23 per cent to 25 per cent of the volume of intended exports of excelso coffee. November 3. It was announced that if the domestic support price for coffee (net of taxes and f re igh t) should exceed a level of about Col$ 1,300 per 125 kilograms of parchment coffee, corresponding to a spot New York price for Colombian coffee of US$0.57 a pound, the excess, net of existing taxes and levies, would be distributed as follows: 35 per cent to the pro- ducer, 30 per cent to the National Coffee Fund, and 35 per cent to local producers' committees for in f ras t ruc tu re investments and credits in coffee areas. November 5. The max imum travel allowance for purposes that might be especially beneficial to the coun try was raised from US$50 to US$70 a day and from US$2,250 to US$6,300 a year. The local currency deposit requirement for such exchange applications remained at 50 per cent (see May 29 ). November 26. Monetary Board Resolution No. 70 established that foreign credits could be nego- tiated in any freely convertible currency provided that the first repayment did not fall due earlier than 180 days a f ter surrender of the proceeds to the Bank of the Republic. The max imum per- mitted effec t ive interest rate on external loans was increased from 10 per cent to 10V4 per cent per annum for credits with maturities of up to one year, whereas it remained at lQl/2 per cent per annum for credits with longer maturities. The requirement that maturities of credits in curren- cies other than U.S. dollars must be of at least three years was abrogated (see October 22). Interest payments and amortization had to be made in the currency in which the credit had been granted. December 18. The accounting rate for the Bank of the Republic's international reserves was changed from Col$ 16.30 per U.S. dollar to Col$ 17.60 per U.S. dollar. 118 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Exchange Rate System No par va lue for the currency of the Demo- cratic Repub l ic of Congo has been established with the Fund. The official un it of currency is the Zaïre. The gold con tent of the za ïre is 1.777432 grams. The o f f ic ial rate of exchange for the Bel- gian f r anc is Z 1 = BF 100, which corresponds to Z 1 = US$2. The buy ing and selling rates for currencies other than the Belgian f r anc are based on the fixed rate for the Belgian f r anc and the official ma rket rates for these other currencies in Brussels. However, the National Bank of Congo buys and sells most foreign currencies against za ïres at rates d i f f e r ing not more than 3A of 1 per cent f rom the cross rates resu l t ing f rom the official par values. It charges a commission of 2/10 of 1 per cent. The official buy ing and selling rate for the U.S. dollar was Z 49.7600 per US$100 on December 31, 1969. forward exchange trans- actions are proh ib i ted. Administration of Control The National Bank of Congo has regulatory au tho r i ty over all foreign trade and paymen ts. Specifically, the Bank has discretionary power to au tho r ize paymen ts and receipts in foreign exchange by residents of the Democratic Repub- lic, and to perm it the impo r t a t ion, expo r ta t ion, and t r an s it of goods. Prescription of Currency Payments f rom nonresidents must be received in listed convertible currencies.1 Special au thor i- zation for the acceptance of other currencies may only be given in respect of currencies that can be exchanged free ly w i thout a d iscoun t. Paymen ts to nonresidents must be made in the listed cu r ren- cies. 1 The listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canad ian dollars, CFA francs, Danish kroner, deutsche m a rk, French francs, Italian lire, Ne the r lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. do l lars. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident accoun ts: Non res ident Accounts in Za ïres and Non re s ident Foreign Cu r rency Accounts. Nonresident Accounts in Zaïres may only be debited for se t t lemen ts in the Democra t ic Repub- lic. Nonresident Foreign Currency Accounts may be credited for any perm i t ted payment to a non- res iden t; they may be debited free ly for t rans fe rs to o ther Res ident and Nonres ident Foreign Cur- rency Accoun ts and to accounts abroad. Nonresi- dent na t iona ls requ i re special au tho r iza t ion from the Na t ional Bank to open these accounts with au thor ized bank s; nonres ident foreigners may open them f ree ly. imports and import Payments The impor ta t ion of a number of goods is pro- h ib i ted on grounds of pub l ic policy; these are mainly arms, amm u n i t i o n, narcotics, and j u ke boxes. Only impo r ts on a list A ( jewe l ry, precious stones, and precious me ta ls) or on a list B (cer- tain types of mach ine ry and vehicles, when va lued at over Z 10,000) are subject to individual licensing; licenses are granted freely for goods on list B. All other commodities are free from prior licensing requ iremen ts. The Na t ional Bank has issued a general import and paymen ts license for these goods wh ich guaran tees the ava i lab i l i ty of foreign exchange when paymen ts fa ll due, provided that the impor ter files an import declara- tion with his bank fo l low ing the ac tual placing of the order. Applications for import licenses, whether requ i r ing foreign exchange or not, are made ini- tially to authorized banks in Kinshasa. Applica- tions are forwarded to the Na t ional Bank after cer t if ica t ion. A f ter approval of the application by the National Bank, which is given in the form of a visa, the import license application is re tu rned to the authorized bank for va l ida t ion. 119 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO Import licenses are validated by the authorized banks w i thout undue delay and remain valid for customs clearance dur ing a period of six months starting from the first day of the month following that in which validation by the commercial bank takes place. Foreign exchange is made available for all licensed imports, the validated license con- stituting at the same time an exchange license; for payments purposes, the license remains valid as long as the relevant payments have not been completed. Where the exporter requires full or partial payment upon shipment, the authorized bank must not validate the license unless it receives a deposit in local currency corresponding to the fu ll c.i.f. cost of the merchandise.2 The counterpart of the value of goods imported under the U.S. import support program and the agricul- tural aid program must be deposited within 180 and 120 days, respectively, after their shipment. Payments for Invisibles Policy related to payments for invisibles is for- mulated by the National Bank. Certain payments are subject to authorization by the National Bank, which is given or refused on a nondiscrimi- natory basis; the approval authority for other cur- rent payments has been delegated to the author- ized banks. The Bank will not authorize exchange for the payment of commissions in favor of shippers or purchasing agents or, except for imports payable on arrival, for insurance on imports. All other payments for services per- formed by nonresidents are in principle author- ized. Transfers abroad of salaries of foreign nationals are freely authorized, provided that at least Z 100 a month is deducted for local living expenses and that all taxes have been paid. Transfers in respect of certain administra- tive expenses abroad by enterprises, interest on private loans, and certain portions of insurance premiums are, as a rule, authorized. Net profits of firms with foreign capital participation are transferable up to an amount proportionate to that participation. Fares for travel abroad may be paid in the Democratic Republic in local currency; for resi- dent foreign nationals, however, the fare must not 2 This requirement was abolished in January 1970. 120 exceed the price of a return trip by a direct route to the country of their origin. Congolese nationals traveling abroad may buy foreign exchange in amounts depending on the duration of the jour- ney, up to the equivalent of Z 400 a trip; appli- cations exceeding this amount are subject to indi- vidual approval by the National Bank. There are no limitations on the amount of domestic or foreign banknotes that travelers may take out. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require individual licenses, with the exception of exports covered by the general licen- ses granted to GECOMIN and METALKAT, the principal mining companies. Banks are normally authorized to grant licenses to exporters who submit a declaration in which they undertake to collect the exchange proceeds. The declaration must specify the nature of the merchandise to be exported, the price, and the currency in which payment is to be received. Export licenses are normally valid for three months; within this period, the proceeds must be received and surren- dered. Most exports of minerals are subject to special regulations to take into account the time required for processing abroad. For mineral products, a provisional payment of about 70 per cent of the shipment's estimated value has to be surrendered within 8 days after embarkation. For diamond exports, two thirds of the value estab- lished at a preliminary examination in the Demo- cratic Republic has to be surrendered before the shipment is dispatched. Export proceeds from coffee have to be surrendered within 45 days after shipment. Receipts from other agricultural exports must generally be repatriated within three months of shipment. The export proceeds of GECOMIN must be surrendered to the National Bank. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. There are no limitations on the im- port of domestic or foreign banknotes by travelers. Capital The repatriation of new foreign capital brought ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution in under the provisions of the Investment Code of June 26, 1969 is guaranteed, as is the t rans fer of p ro f i ts and d iv idends on such capital. W i th m inor exceptions, other transfers abroad of capi- tal owned by residents or nonresidents are not permitted. The sale of real estate located in the Democratic Republic can only be made to the Congolese Government, against payment in zaïres; g ra tu i tous transfers of real estate are sub- ject to approval by executive ordinance. When the local currency part is paid by the debtor, amortization on foreign loans can be t rans fe r red in accordance w i th the terms of contracts that the National Bank has endorsed to guaran tee the availability of exchange for such transfers. The foreign currency assets of the authorized banks are not permitted to exceed their short-term lia- bilities in foreign currencies. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. The import and export of gold in any form, except jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler, require the prior approval of the National Bank; licenses for imports are not normally issued. Producers are required to sell 10 per cent of their production at the official price of US$35 an ounce to the National Bank. Changes during 1969 January L The control over the invoicing of imports was relaxed fu r the r. The intervention of the foreign correspondents of the Société Congo- laise de Surveillance was limited to the checking of qua l i ty and quan t i ty. The checking of prices was henceforth under taken by the National Bank and limited to random spot checks. January L The transfer of profits by compa- nies with foreign participation was resumed, as permitted by a circular of December 24, 1968. DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO April. The Na t ional Bank's arrangements with banks in Belgium, France, and Switzerland were tightened under which Congolese nationals travel- ing in these countries could sell up to Z 100 in Congo currency every two weeks, which was then repurchased by the National Bank at the official rate. While previously the traveler merely had to present a valid passport, he was now required to subm it a currency card (carie de change) issued by the National Bank of Congo. (Subsequently, the currency card fac i l i ty was discontinued and the repurchase of za ïre bank- notes from banks abroad was restricted f u r t h e r .) May 14. A progressive complementary export du ty was levied on exports of copper and speci- fied copper products; the duty was applicable when export prices exceeded a specified level. June 6. The requirement of an import license and/or a prior visa of the Na t ional Bank was abolished for v ir tua l ly all commodities still sub- ject to such requirements. The commodities not covered by this measure were mainly capital goods, but for these the prior visa of the National Bank, which enables the authorized bank to vali- date the import license, was given automatically. For the goods that were henceforth fu l ly liberal- ized, importers could by v i r tue of a general import and payment license enter freely into pur- chase contracts, and the National Bank guaran- teed the delivery of the necessary foreign cur- rency when paymen ts were due. Upon concluding a purchase contract, importers had to sign an import declaration and present it to their bank for registration for statistical purposes. June 26. An Investment Code applicable to both domestic and foreign investments in Congo went into effect (Ordinance Law No. 69/032). October 22. Export duties on tea and ground- nuts were abolished and those on certain other agricultural products were reduced. December L Imports from any country could be made without a certificate of origin. Pre- viously, only imports of EEC origin were exempt. 121 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Exchange System No par value for the currency of the People's Republic of the Congo has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the rela- tionship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02 free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a com- mission. All purchases of foreign currency and all amounts credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs are subject to a commission which is payable to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. With the exception of those relating to gold, the exchange control measures of Congo do not apply to (1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vol t a ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Congo itself, are con- sidered foreign countries, and in principle finan- cial relations only with foreign countries are sub- ject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget super- vises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Congo, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister 1The CFA franc circulating in the People's Republic of the Congo is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and Gabon. 122 of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval au thor i ty to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations and the authorized banks. All payments and receipts between Congo and for- eign countries that are made through banks are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the intermediary of the insti- tution executing the transfer; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies concerning inward and outward pay- ments made in other manners, particularly by the offsetting of claims and debts. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, except those for gold, which are granted by the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. Prescription of Currency The People's Republic of the Congo is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury; settle- ments with France, Monaco, and the other Oper- ations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs,- French francs, or the currency of any other institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with mainland China are made through special accounts estab- lished under a bilateral payments agreement.2 Settlements with all other countries are usually made in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All pay- ments to Portugal require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and the Budget. All set- tlements between Congo and Rhodesia are pro- hibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with North Korea and Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or bankno tes issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of v i r tua l ly all commodities f rom countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France may be made freely. All imports of Portuguese or Rhodesian origin are prohibited. Imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are sub- ject to licensing in accordance w i th an annu al import program; the program also includes indic- ative quo tas for a few commodities from EEC countries other than France. This program is de term ined by a jo int French-Congolese Commit- tee. The impo rt program does not include petro- leum imports, for which a jo int quota is set for the countries of the Central A f r ican Customs and Economic Union (UDEAC). The quotas for non- EEC countries may be used to import goods originating in any country outside the French Franc Area. Licenses for liberalized commodities originating in EEC coun tr ies other than France are issued au toma t ica l ly. Imports of certain prod- ucts from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to special ceilings. Further- more, imports of certain products f rom some low- wage countries of the Far East are limited by a special ceiling. Imports from non-UDEAC countries of certain goods are not permitted unless the importer also buys a certain qu an t i ty of the local product (jumelage). The National Trading Office (Office National du Commerce or OFNACOM) has a monopoly over certain imports, including hardware, rice, and salted fish f rom all sources, certain cotton piece goods from Japan, and certain other textiles from mainland China. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Licenses for imports from foreign countries require the visa of the Foreign Trade Bureau and that of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. The approved import license entitles importers to PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documen ts are subm i t ted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun tr ies are subject to approval. For m any types of payment the approval author- ity has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for inv is ib les related to trade are perm i t ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also perm i t ted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to coun tr ies other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a year for each person (CFAF 50,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange rema in ing a f ter re tu rn to Congo must be surrendered. For busi- ness travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 300,000 a trip. Additional amounts of for- eign exchange for business travel may be author- ized in appropriate cases. The travel allocations obtained by residents must be recorded in a per- sonal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). The t rans fer of the entire net salary of a foreigner work ing in Congo is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, pro- vided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers going to for- eign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Ac- count with the French Treasury. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or, if no declaration was made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000; they may 123 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO reconvert up to CFAF 25,000 in BCEAEC banknotes into foreign currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With the exception of cotton and minerals, exports to countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely; exports to all destinations of coffee, cacao, palm oil, groundnuts, bananas, cotton, gold, and diamonds are subject to individual license. All other exports are free of individual license. Cer- tain agricultural commodities are exported by an official agency, the National Marketing Office for Agricultural Products (Office national de com- mercialisation des produits agricoles or ONCPA). Proceeds from exports to foreign countries must be collected and repatriated, generally within 180 days of arrival of the commodities at their destination. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered within a month of the due date. All export trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be dom- iciled with an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and if received in foreign cur- rency surrendered, within a month of the due date. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue maintaining an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins). Capital All capital movements between Congo and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Congo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital 124 transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign currency, and titles embodying claims on foreign countries or nonres- idents that are held in Congo by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Congo. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing and lending abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issuing, offering for sale, advertising, or introduction of foreign securities in Congo; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over the sale or introduction of foreign securities in Congo, the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct investments abroad 3 require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance and the Budget, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvestment of undis- tributed profits; the full or partial liquidation of such investments also requires the prior approval of the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had pre- viously been approved as constituting the making of a direct investment abroad. Foreign direct investments in Congo4 require prior declaration to the Minister of Finance, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of undistributed profits; the Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declara- tion, during which he may request the postpone- ment of the projects submitted to him. The full or partial liquidation of direct investments in Congo must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participation that had previously been approved 3 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Congo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Congo. 4 Including those involving the cession between non- residents ot a participation in the capital of a Congolese company. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution as constituting the mak ing of a direct investment in Congo. Both the making and the liquidation of direct investments, whether these are Congolese investments abroad or foreign investments in Congo, must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct invest- ments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Congo requires prior authori- zation by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connec- tion w i th (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Congolese Government and (2) shares simi- lar to securities whose issue, advertising, or offer- ing for sale in Congo has previously been author- ized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment abroad for which prior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; (2) loans directly connected with the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or w i th the financing of com- mercial transactions either between Congo and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation. Lending by residents to nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks and (2) other loans when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO one lender. The mak ing of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be reported to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations w i th in 20 days of the operation. Under the Investment Code of June 1961, as amended on December 29, 1962, any enterprise established in Congo, whether domestic or for- eign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced duties and taxes on specified imports as well as exemption from direct taxes on specified income. The Code also provides for three categories of preferential treatment, in accordance with which fiscal and other privileges may be accorded to firms investing in specified new industries or in the expansion of existing ones. Preferential treat- ment A applies to enterprises whose activity and market are limited to the national territory of Congo; it is granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment B applies to enter- prises whose activity and market include the ter- ritory of two or more states of the former Equa- torial Customs Union (the Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, and Gabon). Preferen- tial treatment C is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development; it provides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 20 years. The granting of any one of the three kinds of preferential treat- ment automatically includes the application of specified exemptions from direct taxes which are granted to all investments in Congo. Requests for approval for preferential treat- ment must be submitted to the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. Af ter an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment A is granted by decree issued by the Council of Minis- ters. Preferential treatment B is granted by an act of the Executive Committee of the Central Afri- can Customs and Economic Union upon the rec- ommendation of the Council of Ministers. Preferential treatment C requires legislation. Gold By virtue of Decree No. 66/236 of July 29, 1966, as amended by Decree No. 66/265 of August 29, 1966, residents are free to hold in 125 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO Congo gold in the form of coins, art objects, or jewelry, but they require the prior authorization of the Minister of Finance and the Budget to hold gold in any other form or to import or export gold in any form from or to any other country. Exempt from the latter requ irement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAEC and (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. The agency SOGAREM has a monopoly over the export of newly mined gold. Changes during 1969 January 30. Decree No. 69/35 introduced new exchange control regulations applicable in rela- tions with foreign countries and amending the exchange controls introduced on June 4, 1968. It revoked and replaced Decree No. 68/150 of June 4, 1968 and suspended any contrary pro- visions of Decree No. 67/150 of July 1, 1967 and of the regulations issued for its implementation. All import and export transactions relating to for- eign countries had to be domiciled with authorized banks. The decree prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Finance, all payments and transfers by residents to foreign countries, or within Congo in favor of a nonresi- dent; all imports and exports of gold, means of payment, and securities; and all transactions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Congo by a resident. All claims on foreign countries or nonresidents result- ing from exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, surrendered. All foreign securities, foreign exchange, and titles representing claims on foreign countries had to be deposited with an authorized bank, whether they were held by residents or nonresidents. January 30. Order No. 0248 listed the types of payment that could be made freely, through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration, to foreign countries. Payments up to CFAF 12,500 could be made freely, without indication of their purpose. Nonresident accounts in Congo could not be credited with BCEAEC banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other 126 institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected, and if received in foreign currencies surrendered to authorized banks, within a month of the due date. Such payments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Congo. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 180 days af ter arrival of the commodities at their destina- tion. The deposit of foreign securities, etc., had to be made w i th in a month. The order also con- tained definitions of "foreign countries," "resi- dents," and "nonresidents." Foreign countries were defined as all countries other than Congo, France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. The order revoked and replaced Order No. 2155/MF/B&M of June 4, 1968. January 30. Decree No. 69/34 submitted to control by the Minister of Finance all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign cur- rency that banks in Congo had vis-à-vis foreign countries. This control could be delegated to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. February 14. Order No. 0353 required the prior approval of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations to send means of payment, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securities to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. February 14. Order No. 0354 provided that resident and nonresident travelers leaving for a foreign country could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes (CFAF 5,000 in CFA banknotes or foreign bank- notes for those going abroad for less than 24 hours). Imports by resident or nonresident trav- elers of French banknotes and of banknotes issued by any institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten) was introduced for tourist travel to foreign countries, and one of up to CFAF 10,000 a day (subject to a maximum of CFAF 300,000 a trip) ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution for business travel to foreign countries. Alloca- tions in excess of CFAF 300,000 a tr ip for busi- ness travel could be issued by an exceptional authorization of the Office of Foreign F inanc ial Relations. A personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) was introduced in which all travel allocations had to be recorded. Non- resident travelers could take out, in addition to CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC banknotes, any fore ign currency declared upon en try or, if no declaration was made, foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000. February 14. Circular No. 021/MF established approval procedures for paymen ts and t ran s fe rs to foreign countries. Payments up to CFAF 12,500 could no longer be made freely; any resident could make paymen ts abroad up to CFAF 12,500 a year w i thout indication of the ir purpose, but such payments had to be recorded in his foreign exchange booklet and were deducted from his tourist travel allocation. The circular also established the terms on wh ich foreign exchange could be purchased fo rwa rd. This would only be allowed for import paymen ts but not un t il the detailed regulations were announced. The c ircu lar also prescribed procedures for pay- ments for imports. Import licenses for goods f rom foreign countries required the visa of the Foreign Trade Bu reau and that of the Office of Foreign Financial Relations. Nonres ident travelers could upon depa r tu re reconvert up to CFAF 25,000 into foreign currency. No res ident or nonres ident traveler could take out more than the equ iva lent of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC bankno tes. Resi- dents could not take out more than half their PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO tourist travel allocation in the form of foreign banknotes. Foreign workers could t rans fer the ir en t i re net salary abroad, w i th in three mon ths of receipt. Purchases of foreign currency and amoun ts credited to Foreign Accounts in Francs rema ined sub ject to the commission payable in to the account of the Office of Foreign Financial Re la t ions w i th the Treasury; the rate of commis- sion is fixed annu a l ly by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. February 14. The Office of Foreign Financial Relations issued Circular No. 022/MF to the authorized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. All ove rd ra f ts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and in general all advances to nonresidents required prior approval. June 6. Circular No. 161/MF&B established special nonres ident accounts for expend i tures and receipts of foreign ships in Congo and of Congo- lese ships abroad (Comptes d'escale). June 6. Circular No. 162/MF&B was issued concerning emergency t rans fe rs to foreign coun- tries. June 6. C ircu lar No. 163/CIRC was issued concerning the control of the banks' foreign cur- rency position and their position in CFA francs on fore ign accounts. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French f ranc, the Mala- gasy f ranc, and the Mali f ranc remained unchanged. 127 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA Exchange Raie System The par value is 0.134139 gram of fine gold per Costa Rican Colón or 0 6.625 = US$1. The Central Bank buys exchange derived from exports and other exchange tendered to it at a fixed rate of {£ 6.62 per US$1. Exchange may be purchased freely by the public in a market in which the Central Bank ma in ta ins the rate at <£ 6.65 per US$1. Costa Rica has no exchange restrictions on current or capital payments. Costa Rica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 1, 1965. Administration of Control The controls over export receipts are operated by the Central Bank of Costa Rica. Purchases and sales of exchange are made through the Cen- tral Bank or through commercial banks acting as its agents. Prescription of Currency In practice, nearly all exchange transactions in Costa Rica are expressed in U.S. dollars. Pay- ments to Poland may be made through special U.S. dollar accounts established under a pay- ments agreement with that country. Payments to El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be made in Costa Rican colones through the Cámara de Compensaci ón Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central Amer- ica to foster the process of economic integration of their countries; the documents must be expressed in colones and require approval by the Central Bank, which is given for payments for all imports of Central American origin and for all current invisibles and capital transfers. The cen- tral banks of these four countries may also engage in transactions in Costa Rican notes and coins, up to the equivalent of US$40,000 a month for Nicaragua and up to the equivalent of US$10,000 a month for each of the other coun- tries. Payments to Mexico in respect of trade and invisibles may also be made in Costa Rican colones through the clearinghouse, in accordance with the Agreement on Clearing and Reciprocal 128 Credits between the Bank of Mexico and the member banks of the clearinghouse; the docu- ments must be expressed in colones and require the prior approval of the Central Bank. There are no transactions with Mexico in Costa Rican notes and coins. imports and import Payments Imports from South Africa are prohibited. There is no system of import licensing and all payments may be made freely. Some imports, however, are made on a barter basis; these require a barter license (licencia de trueque) issued by the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce. In addition to any applicable customs duty, there are levied on imports ( 1 ) a stamp tax of 3 per cent of the customs duty on commodities not covered by the common external tariff of the Central American Common Market; and (2) a sales tax with a range of 5-25 per cent ad valo- rem, from which certain essential items are exempt. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles are not controlled, and exchange may be purchased freely. All passages for foreign travel are subject to a tax of 5 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa are prohibited. The Central Bank supervises exports to assure a supply of exchange to the market. Export licenses from the Central Bank are necessary for the physical exportation of merchandise, and the license is granted if the exporter agrees to surren- der the exchange proceeds; the Bank may require the exporter to provide a guarantee in this respect. In addition to the export license issued by the Central Bank, other export licenses are required as follows: (1) strategic materials, such as armaments, munitions, scrap iron, and scraps of nonferrous base metals, require export licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; (2) sugar requires an export license from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce in order that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution shipments under the sugar quotas may be con- trolled; (3) lumber and root of ipecacuanha require export licenses from the Institute for Lands and Colonization; (4) beans, rice, pota- toes, onions, cotton, meat, and purebred and other cattle require export licenses from the National Council of Production; (5) airplanes require export licenses from the Civil Aviation Board; (6) Indian art objects made of gold, stone, or clay require export licenses from the National Museum; (7) tobacco requires an export license f rom the Tobacco Defense Board; (8) certain livestock and animals and plants of forest origin require a permit from the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock; and (9) coffee requires a sales contract approved by the Coffee Office, in order to control exports under the coffee quotas, and when there is a lien on the coffee in favor of a bank, that bank's approval is required before the Central Bank grants an export license. The exchange proceeds of all exports must be surrendered within 60 days of exportation or, if the goods were sold on credit, upon expiry of the term of the credit. Foreign-owned banana compa- nies that have contracts with the Government must surrender their net export proceeds calcu- lated by deducting from their gross export pro- ceeds (1) profits obtained during the year from their transactions in Costa Rica; (2) a sum equivalent to the depreciation on their invest- ments in Costa Rica that is acceptable to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service; (3) the export tax on bananas payable in foreign currency; and (4) the cost of imports made dur ing the year that were necessary for their normal business in Costa Rica. There are export taxes on bananas, sugar, and coffee. Proceeds from invisibles Exchange receipts retained or sold freely. from invisibles may be Capital Inward and outward transfers of capital may be made freely by residents and nonresidents. The Organic Law of the Central Bank provides that foreign capital entering through the official COSTA RICA market may be registered with the Central Bank in order to be ensured access to that market for the transfer of interest, profits, and amortization. Gold Only the Central Bank is permitted to pur- chase or sell gold. Any physical or juridical person who has or acquires gold coins or gold bars must sell these to the Central Bank within 60 days from the date on which they became his property; exempt are small amounts in coin collections, jewe lry, or fam i ly keepsakes. Imports and exports of gold are made only by the Central Bank. The Central Bank does not supply gold to artistic or professional users. Changes during 1969 On certain occasions prior to the unification of the exchange rate structure (December 24, 1969), commodities were added to or deleted from the list of essential imports entitled to exchange at the official rate. Payments arrears were gradually cleared during that period, and the spread between the official and free market rates narrowed progressively. March 9. Importers were required to apply for exchange at the time of registration of the import transaction. Previously, they could apply for exchange at any time after registration. March 9. The local currency deposit required of importers applying for forward exchange cer- tificates in respect of registered imports payable at the official rate was raised to 100 per cent. Previously, 10 per cent had to be deposited when applying for exchange and 90 per cent within 5 days thereaf ter. (Forward facilities for importers had been introduced in April 1968.) September 2. Law No 4412, a law to control exports of cattle, went into effect. September 20. Certain changes in the applica- tion of the 5 per cent tax on tickets for foreign travel were introduced by Decree No. 46. December 14. The Central Bank reduced the free market buying rate from (Z 6.92 to 0 6.62 per U.S. dollar, i.e., to the level of the official buying rate. December 24. The Central Bank ceased to 129 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution COSTA RICA apply Article 97 of its Organic Law. The dual exchange market was unified through the aboli- tion of the free exchange market. Henceforth, all exchange transactions again took place at buying and selling rates based on the par value. The official buy ing and selling rates were maintained at (£ 6.62 and 0 6.65, respectively. The existing exchange restrictions were removed. 130 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS Exchange Rale System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Cyprus Pound or «£C 1 = US$2.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, with which the Cyprus pound is at par, and London market rates for sterling against other currencies. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1969 was US$2.40i3/16 buy ing, and US$2.401/! 6 selling, per <£C 1. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Central Bank of Cyprus; trade controls, by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try. Certain au thor i ty to approve applications for the alloca- tion of foreign exchange w i th in the scope of instructions issued by the Central Bank of Cyprus has been delegated to the authorized banks. Au thor i ty to introduce, adapt, and supervise con- trols on exports of potatoes has been delegated to the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, while exports of cereals are licensed by the Cyprus Gra in Commission. Prescription of Currency Cyprus is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements between residents of Cyprus and resi- dents of other Sterling Area countries may be made free ly in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Settlements w i th countries covered by bilateral payments arrangements must be made through the appropriate clearing account denomi- nated in pounds sterling.1 Payments to other countries except Rhodesia may be made by cred- iting sterling or Cyprus pounds to an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in ster- ling or Cyprus pounds from an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations; payments for exports to Rhodesia must be received in a non- 1 Cyprus has bilateral paymen ts arrangements involv- ing settlements th rough clearing accounts w i th Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. Sterling Area currency other pounds. than Rhodesian Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Cyprus and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, and the funds on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may main- tain w i th authorized banks nonresident accounts, designated External Accounts. These may be credited w i th authorized payments from the Ster- ling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales by nonres iden ts of non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. External Accounts may be debited for payments to residents of the Ster- ling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with ( 1) pay- men ts f rom External Accounts, (2) payments by residents of the Sterling Area that are made by check, bill, or d r a ft drawn on or before Novem- ber 11, 1965 or under irrevocable credits opened on or before that date, (3) the proceeds of sales by, or on behalf of, the account holder to an authorized dealer of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, and (4) transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts. Rhodesian Accounts may be debited for ( 1) payments to residents of any country made by check, bill, or d r a ft d rawn on or before November 11, 1965 or made under an irrevocable credit opened on or before th at date by a bank in Cyprus or Rhode- sia, (2) payments to residents of the Sterling Area for goods that had been delivered or shipped to Rhodesia on or before November 11, 1965, (3) living expenses in Cyprus of the account holder or his fam i ly, (4) insurance p rem iums payable to companies in the Sterling Area on personal policies taken out prior to November 11, 1965 by the account holder or his fam i ly, ( 5) bank charges due to authorized deal- ers in Cyprus, (6) sterling travelers checks and personal letters of credit issued by banks in Rho- 131 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution CYPRUS desia and encashed in Cyprus, and (7) transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts. Blocked Accounts are maintained in the name of a nonresident for certain funds of a capital nature which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Cyprus. Blocked funds may either be held as deposits or invested in government securities or government-guaranteed securities. Income earned on blocked funds so invested may be remitted to the nonresident beneficiary or credited to an External Account without prior reference to the Central Bank, but cannot be credited to the Blocked Account. Funds can be released from Blocked Accounts in the following circumstances. On application by the authorized bank concerned acting on behalf of the nonresident account holder, the Central Bank may authorize the release of blocked funds for (1) reasonable educa- tional expenses in Cyprus of the account holder's children; (2) reasonable living expenses of the account holder while on a visit to Cyprus; and ( 3) donations to charitable institutions in Cyprus. In addition to any releases under ( 1 ), ( 2 ), and ( 3 ), amounts up to a level determined from time to time may become eligible for release. At present, the Central Bank is prepared to permit the release to each nonresident holder of blocked funds of up to <£C 1,000, as well as a fu r ther amount of up to <£C 5,000 in any cal- endar year, provided that the amount applied for in respect of the latter release represents the pro- ceeds of redemption or sale of securities that were held for account of the nonresident benefici- ary for a continuous period of at least four years. imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Imports of virtually all commodi- ties may be made freely from any other country except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czech- oslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Tibet, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Certain goods may not be imported freely (some agricultural and textile products, footwear, metal manufactures, and industrial mach ine ry ); for a few of these items, no licenses are granted, while for most of them licenses are granted liberally. Imports from Bul- garia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- 132 gary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R. are per- mitted in accordance with the terms of bilateral trade and payments agreements. With respect to Albania, mainland China, North Korea, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam, no trading arrangements exist. Ind iv idual import licenses are not required for bona fide unsolicited gifts up to <£C 10 in value (not to be sold), for returned goods, or for cer- tain special import transactions. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, but advance payments in respect of imports from countries outside the Sterling Area are not normally permitted. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All remittances to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities. Profits, dividends, and interest from approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Insurance premiums due to foreign insur- ance companies are remittable after deduction of all expenses and contingencies in respect of any claims. Maintenance remittances are allowed on application accompanied by documentary evi- dence of hardship. For certain categories of pay- ments, l im i ts are imposed mainly for the purpose of preventing illicit capital outflow. For study abroad, the lower limit is <£C 500 a year, and the upper limit is <£C 1,700 a year; the amount allowed depends on the cost of living in the country concerned—e.g., for study in countries in the Middle East, £C 550; in the United States and Canada, £C 1,700; in other countries, <£C 1,050. Higher amounts for student allowances may be granted on production of sufficient documentary evidence. For tourist travel, the limit is £C 250 a person annually; for business travel <£C 5 to <£C 25 a day is granted in addition to the tourist allowance. The basic tourist allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia. Resident travelers may take out Cyprus notes up to <£C 10 and foreign currency notes up to the equiva- lent of <£ stg. 50. Nonresident travelers may take out <£C 10 in Cyprus notes and any amount of foreign currency notes that they brought into Cyprus. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of potatoes are subject to control by the Cyprus Potato Marketing Board, and those of wheat and barley to control by the Cyprus Grain Commission. Exports to Sterling Area countries, with minor exceptions, are free from licensing, irrespective of their amount; exports to other countries are free from licensing when the f.o.b. value does not exceed <£C 75. Goods destined for countries outside the Sterling Area are subject to a fu r th er control to ensure repatriation of the sales proceeds in an appropriate manner (see sec- tion on Prescription of Currency, above). Export proceeds in non-Sterling Area currencies must be surrendered w i th in one month of receipt. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area currencies must be sold to an authorized bank within one month of receipt. Persons entering Cyprus may bring in any amount in foreign cur- rency notes and Cyprus currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts or payments in Sterling Area currencies. Receipts in other currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank; payments of a capital nature in those currencies require prior approval. Foreign investments in Cyprus by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require the prior approval of the exchange control authori- ties. In considering applications, due regard is given to the purpose of the investment, the extent of possible foreign exchange savings, the number of persons to be employed, the extent of the for- CYPRUS eign exchange liability which might arise from the investment, and possible competition with existing industries. Foreign investment involving participa- tion in domestic industries not exceeding 49 per cent of the share capital is normally approved; participation above this limit may be permitted in exceptional circumstances. Proceeds from the liq- uidation of approved foreign investments may be repatriated in fu ll at any time, after payment of any charges and taxes due. Foreign nationals who repatriate or take up residence outside the Sterling Area, and Cypriots who emigrate to countries outside the Sterling Area, may transfer abroad up to <£C 5,000. Any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Transactions in foreign securities owned by residents require prior permission from the authorities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Cyprus for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers in gold, and industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Authorized dealers in gold are only permitted to import gold for the purpose of disposing of it to industrial users. The export of gold requires the permission of the exchange con- trol authorities. Changes during 1969 No significant changes took place during 1969. 133 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY Exchange System No par value for the currency of Dahomey has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of cur- rency is the CFA-Franc, which is officially ma in- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. The domestic negotiation of the cur- rencies of Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica is prohibited. Dahomey's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with ( 1 ) France and its Over- seas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union (Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vol t a ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Dahomey itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with for- eign countries are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, how- ever, the countries listed above are also consid- ered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the Ministry of Economy and Finance, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, adver- tising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey, inward direct investment, all investment in foreign countries, and the solicitation of funds in Dahomey for placement in foreign countries. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries. Import licenses are issued by the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i rs in the M in is try of Economy and Finance, except those for gold, which are granted by the Minister of Economy and Finance person- ally. Exports of diamonds require the prior approval of the Directorate of Mines. There are three special offices for the import and export of precious metals and precious mineral materials. Import certificates for liberalized commodities from non-EEC countries are made out by the impor ter himself and approved by the Directo- rate-General of Economic Affairs. Prescription of Currency Dahomey is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO main- ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France ( inc lud ing its Overseas Departments and Territories, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f rancs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements w i th all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the cur- rencies of those countries —provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.2 All settlements with Portugal, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited. 1 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 2 There are inoperative payments agreements with Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, and the United Arab Repub- lic. 134 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments All imports originating in or shipped from Por- tugal, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica are prohibited. Certain imports, such as narcotics, are prohibited from all sources, and imports of rice and sugar are subject to license, irrespective of the ir origin. Imports of all other goods from countries in the French Franc Area may be made free ly w i thout an import license. Imports of all other goods from EEC countries other than France may also be made freely; these goods require a license, which is issued automatically. Certain imports are liberalized when originating in OECD countries other than Japan and only require an import cer- tificate made out by the importer himself. Imports of nonliberalized commodities f rom OECD countries, all imports from Japan, and all imports from non-OECD countries are subject to licensing; they are admitted in accordance with an annual import program, which is determined each year in a jo int French-Dahomean Commit- tee, as provided for by the Economic Coopera- tion Agreement w i th France. Under this program, global quotas are established for imports f rom all countries outside the French Franc Area except EEC countries. A few specified commod i t ie s3 are subject to ind iv idual ceilings w i th in the global quotas when or ig ina t ing in non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. Certain French textiles processed elsewhere are licensed freely outside the import program. All imports from foreign countries when valued at more than CFAF 20,000 must be domiciled with an authorized bank. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is 3 These commodities are piece goods (p r in ted and unp r in t ed ). DAHOMEY opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for invisibles Payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted f ree ly; those to other countries are sub- ject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Economic A f fa i r s. Payments for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not requ i re au thor iza t ion. Transfers of income accru- ing to nonres iden ts in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted. For tour- ist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person (CFAF 25,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange rema in ing af ter re turn to Dahomey mu st be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maxi- mum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to spec- ified c o u n t r i e s4 or CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of CFAF 150,000, for travel to any other foreign country. The t rans fer of the en t ire net salary of a foreigner wo rk ing in Dahomey is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the trans- fer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a m a x im um of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bankno tes, French banknotes, and bank- notes issued by other Operations Account coun- tries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a coun try that is not a member of the West A f r ican Monetary Union they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Resident travelers must have 4 These are Algeria, Aus tr ia, Be lg ium, Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, Cyprus, Denma rk, F in land, Federal Republic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, Libyan A rab Republic, Luxembourg, Ma l ta, Morocco, Netherlands, Nigeria, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Repub l ic, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. 135 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY their purchases and sales of foreign currency marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may take out any unu t i l- ized foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry or the equiva- lent of CFAF 50,000 if they have made no decla- ration; they may reconvert CFA banknotes up to CFAF 50,000 into foreign means of payment. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports to all foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when valued at over CFAF 50,000. Exports to all countries are free of license, except those of gold and diamonds, but require an export application visaed by the Directorate-General of Economic Affairs. Exports of gold require the prior approval of the Minister of Finance personally, and those of diamonds must be authorized by the Directorate of Mines. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another operations Account country must normally be collected within 180 days of the arrival of the commodities at their destination and surrendered by sale on the foreign exchange market w i th in two months of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French France Area; resident travelers must within eight days surrender any foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks they bring in and, if they represent the unutilized portion of an exchange allocation, they must have their travel exchange booklet marked accordingly by the authorized bank to which the foreign currency is sold. 136 Capital Transfers of capital between Dahomey and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. Capital movements between Dahomey and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey; these controls re- late to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities in Dahomey, the control measures do not apply to France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit or invest- ment with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Dahomey requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.5 Foreign direct investments in Dahomey 6 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration during which he may request the postponement of the projects 5 Including those made through the intermediary of for- eign companies that are directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Dahomey and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Dahomey. 6 Including those made by companies in Dahomey that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Dahomey of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution submitted to h im. The fu ll or partial liquidation of either type of investment also requires declara- tion. Both the making and the l iqu ida t ion of in- vestments, whether these are Dahomean invest- ments abroad or foreign investments in Dahomey, must be reported to the Minister of Economy and Finance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in Dahomey requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with ( 1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Dahomean Gov- ernment, and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, sale, or offer ing for sale in Dahomey has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior declaration, as indicated above, and (2) loans contracted by authorized banks. The repayment of any foreign borrowing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, re- quires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement are loans constitut- ing a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. The Investment Code of December 31, 1961 provides for preferential status that may be granted to foreign and domestic investments in industry, agriculture, and, in some cases, com- merce, when such investments are deemed to be of value to national development. Three preferen- tial regimes are established. Plan A is intended for small and medium-sized investments and pro- vides for exemption, during a period of up to 5 years, from import duties and taxes on materials necessary for the production of the proposed DAHOMEY product. Plan B, for larger projects, is granted for a max imum period of 8 years and provides, in addition to the benefits of Plan A, exemption dur ing the first 5 years of operation from the tax on industrial and commercial profits as well as certain other taxes. Plan C is intended for very large enterprises and is granted for a period of up to 25 years. In addition to the benefits of Plans A and B, Plan C guarantees marketing stabiliza- tion for products, free choice of suppliers, and certain other advantages. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Dahomey. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a maximum weight to be deter- mined by the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declara- tion. Changes during 1969 January 14. Circular No. 5 established proce- dures for the domiciliation of imports and for payments for imports. January 14. Circular No. 6 established proce- dures for the domiciliation of exports and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. January 20. Circular No. 15 was issued con- cerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. The former were defined as comprising accounts in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. With minor exceptions, all overdrafts on such accounts and all advances to nonresidents required the approval of the Minis- try of Economy and Finance. January 23. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-à-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and 137 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO by Order No. 100/MEF/CAB. January 28. The BCEAO, by Instruction No. 1 to Banks, requested the banks to provide monthly data on their foreign position. For this purpose, all countries other than Dahomey were to be considered foreign countries. February 21. Order No. 173/MEF/AE/DG introduced an exchange allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year for tour- ist travel by residents to foreign countries (CFAF 25,000 for children under t e n ). For busi- ness travel, a special allocation was fixed of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified countries, and the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 150,000 a trip, for travel to other foreign countries. Resident and nonresident travelers could take out up to CFAF 10,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, and the institutes of issue of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers were required to obtain a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) in which all purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be marked. Resi- dents had to surrender any foreign currency brought in. Nonresident travelers could take out freely foreign bankno tes up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 and any other means of payment established in the ir name abroad; in addition, they could take out foreign bankno tes in excess of CFAF 50,000 to the ex tent that they could show that these had been declared upon entry or, up to CFAF 50,000, had been acquired by conversion of CFA f rancs in Dahomey. February 21. Circular No. 33 established pro- cedures for the issuance and use of fore ign exchange booklets. April 18. Circular No. 60 listed the import commodities for which forward exchange cover could be obtained. Contracts were limited to one month or three months and were not renewable. April 18. Instruction No. 2 of the BCEAO requested the banks to provide mon th ly data on their forward liabilities in foreign currencies. April 18. Instruction No. 3 of the BCEAO amended Instruction No. 1. 138 May 12. Circular No. 71 modified Circular No. 5 and permitted payment for imports into Dahomey to be made by an authorized bank established in France or one of the Operations Account countries. June 11. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 4 concerning the control over external claims and liabilities. June 19. Ordinance No. 69/19 suspended un t il fu r th er notice the importation of textile bags and of materials made of ju te and other textile fibers for the manu fac tu r ing of bags. August 11. Circular No. 122 was issued con- cerning Suspense Accounts (Comptes d'attente) and suspense dossiers for nonresidents. August 11. Circular No. 123 was issued con- cerning the opening of foreign accounts and for- eign securities dossiers for persons who, having been residents, become nonresidents. August 11. Circular No. 125 was issued con- cern ing expenses and receipts of foreign ships in Dahomey and of national ships abroad. Special accounts for these purposes were introduced (Comptes d'escale). August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, the Mala- gasy franc, and the Mali f ranc remained unchanged. September 17. Circular No. 142 was issued concerning fam i ly remittances. The approval au thor i ty delegated to the banks was set at CFAF 20,000 a month for each applicant. The transfers concerned had to be marked in the latters exchange booklet but were not deducted from his tourist travel allocation. September 17. Circular No. 143 was issued concerning living expenses of persons studying abroad. Authorized banks were empowered to grant foreign currency up to specified amounts; these were, for nonboarding unmarried students, US$300 a month for the United States and the equivalent of CFAF 60,000 a month for other countries. September 17. Circular No. 144 was issued concerning the transfer of wages earned in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Dahomey by foreign workers. The net remunera- tion could be transferred in fu l l, w i th in three months of the relevant pay period. September 17. Circular No. 145 was issued concerning the transfer of salaries to officials sta- tioned abroad. September 17. Circular No. 146 was issued concerning the banks' reporting requirements with respect to transfers received f rom foreign countries and to payments to residents made by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. September 17. Circular No. 147 was issued concerning the issuance of foreign currency to travelers in special cases. September 17. Circular No. 148 was issued concerning cu r r ent payments to foreign countries that could be approved by au thor ized banks when specified conditions were met. This delegated authority was set at CFAF 250,000 a person for transfers by emigrants and for transfers of dowries. September 19. Circular No. 151 was issued concerning insurance and re insurance. December 2. Decree No. 69-296 was issued concerning certain financial transactions w i th for- eign countries. For purposes of this Decree, for- eign countries were defined as all countries other than Dahomey. It revoked Decree No. 67-219 of June 29, 1967 and Decree No. 68-193 of July 13, 1968, wh ich had modified the fo rme r. The prior au tho r iza t ion of the M in is ter of Finance was required fo r: ( 1) the issuing, adver- tising, or sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign pub l ic organ iza t ions or companies, and in te rna t ional in s t i tu t ion s; (2) the soliciting in any way of f u n ds for deposit w i th foreign p r iva te persons and foreign firms or in s t i tu t ion s; (3) any publicity w i th a view to the p lac ing of f u n ds abroad or subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing opera- tions abroad. Exempt from special or general permission, however, were the various activities mentioned above when re la t ing to loans guar- anteed by the Dahomean Gove rnment or re la t ing to shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Dahomey had previously been authorized. The import and export of gold required the prior approval of the Minister. Exempt were ( 1 ) DAHOMEY imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold; and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a maximum weight to be announced by the Minister. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, or Operations Account countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union were required to declare to the customs the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were carrying if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. December 2. Decree No. 69-297 was issued concerning certain investment and borrowing transactions with foreign countries. It modified the capital controls introduced by Decree No. 67-219 of June 29, 1967; Articles 3 to 14 of that Decree were revoked. For purposes of investment and borrowing transactions, foreign countries contin- ued to be defined as in Decree No. 381/PR/MEF of December 20, 1968, i.e., as countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All payments received from foreign countries by an authorized bank for the account of a resident had to be declared to the Minister of Finance. All payments and receipts relating to the transactions mentioned below had to be chan- neled through authorized banks. Henceforth all investments made abroad by residents required the prior authorization of the M in is ter; previously, direct investments required only prior declaration to the Minister, a f ter which the latter had two months to request postpone- ment. The l iqu ida t ion of investments abroad con- t inued to be subject to prior declaration. These provisions also applied to the making and liqui- dation of investments abroad by nonresident companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Dahomey or so controlled by branches abroad of residents. Direct investment in Dahomey remained sub- ject to prior declaration, after which the Minister could du r ing a two-month period request post- ponement. The proceeds of the liquidation by a nonresident of direct investments or other invest- ments could be transferred abroad af ter submis- sion of supporting documents to the Minister. Borrowing abroad remained subject to prior 139 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DAHOMEY authorization by the Minister. The exemptions from this requirement were redefined. The report- ing requirements for amounts borrowed or repaid were revised. The repayment of any foreign bor- rowing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, required the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement were loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. 140 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Danish Krone or DKr 7.50000= US$1. The official limits for the U.S. dollar are DKr 7.44375 buying, and DKr 7.55625 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to intervene; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluc- tuates in the exchange market between these limits. Market rates are quoted daily for the 16 currencies that are used most often.1 Authorized exchange dealers may engage in arbitrage both spot and forward for up to 12 months with one another and w i th their foreign correspondents in all currencies, including Danish kroner (other than Danish kroner on East German accounts). Forward premiums and discounts are left to the interplay of ma rket forces. Forward transactions with residents must cover contractual payments for goods and services or payments on authorized loans and credits, the payments covered being due not more than two years from the date of the forward contract. Pu r suant to UN Security Council Resolution No. 253 (1968), restrictions for security reasons are applied to virtually all payments and transfers to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia, and to certain receipts from Rhodesia. Denmark accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from May 1, 1967. Exchange Control Territory The Danish Monetary Area comprises Den- mark, Greenland, and the Faroe Islands. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the National Bank of Denmark, which is the central exchange control authority. However, administra- tive powers for most payments and transfers are delegated to the authorized exchange dealers, i.e., 1 These are Austrian schillings, Belgian (Luxem- bourg) francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, Fin- nish markkaa, French francs, Icelandic kronur, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Norweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kro- ner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. banks and the stock exchange brokers who are members of the Copenhagen Stock Exchange. Permission, when required, for foreign direct investments in Denmark has to be obtained from the Ministry of Commerce. Licenses for imports and exports, when required, are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, the Ministry of Agricul- ture, or the Ministry of Fisheries. Prescription of Currency Payments to or from foreign countries may be made in any foreign currency or in Danish kroner. The only exceptions to this rule are that payments to Eastern Germany must be settled through inconvertible krone accounts and that virtually all payments in favor of residents of Rhodesia must be credited to a Capital Account. Payments from Eastern Germany are normally settled through inconvertible krone accounts, but may also be settled otherwise. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident krone accounts are convertible. The only exceptions are Capital Accounts and Foreign Accounts, which play only an insignifi- cant part in settlements with foreign countries, and East German accounts. Krone Accounts may be opened by authorized banks for foreign banks, insurance companies, and shipping lines. They may also be opened for other nonresidents, if it is agreed with the account holder that amounts in excess of DKr 75,000 are to be transferred abroad auto- matically at the end of each quar ter; this limitation is not applicable to persons who are or have been of Danish nationality. Capital Accounts are kept for nonresidents by authorized exchange dealers for holding capital, income from capital, pensions, and other funds owned by or accruing to Danish emigrants, to the extent that the amounts exceed the exchange allowance of DKr 40,000 available to each person du r ing the first year after emigration. Cer- tain payments to residents may be made freely from these accounts and one year after emigra- tion the balances are made convertible. Capital 141 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK Accounts are also kept for residents of Rhodesia; balances in these accounts are inconvertible. Foreign Accounts are nonresident accounts w i th savings banks, small cooperative banks, and the Public Trustee's Office. These accounts are kept ma in ly by pr iva te persons and for pr iva te purposes. The rules governing such accounts follow broadly the same principles as those estab- lished for convertible Krone Accounts, except that t rans fe rs abroad may be made only through an authorized exchange dealer. Imports and Import Payments The import of all commodities of Rhodesian origin is prohibited. All goods not on a restricted list con ta in ing ma in ly non indus tr ial goods may be imported w i thout license from the "Free List Area." 2 For imports from the "Free List Area" of commodities on the restricted list, licenses are issued on the basis of global (reg iona l) quotas and may be used for any country in the "Free List Area." 3 Imports from countries outside the "Free List Area" require licenses; these are partly granted in accordance with bilateral trade agree- ments or trad i t ional trade relations w i th the spe- cific country concerned and par t ly issued freely for a large number of commodities when these are imported f rom, and originate in, the country concerned.4 Imports of bread gra in, feedgrain, and cer ta in grain products are subject to equaliza- tion charges represen t ing the d i f fe rence between specified m i n im um import prices and the lowest prices payable for gra in c.i.f. Danish ports. The t rans fer of funds to, or for the benefit of, Rhodesia is prohibited. With this exception, pay- ments for imports and the related shipping ex- penses may be made freely w i th in two years from 2 On December 31, 1969, the following countries were not inc luded in the "Free List Area": A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, ma in land China, Republic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Japan, Nor th Korea, Repub- lic of Korea, Mongolian People's Republic, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 3 On ly wine, oysters, and cut flowers are imported under licenses wh ich apply to a specific country. 4 With effect from Janua ry 1, 1970, the import system was fur ther liberalized and reorganized on the basis of three negative lists and three country lists; one for Japan and South Korea; one for Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R.; and one for Albania, Eastern Germany, Rhodesia, Repub l ic of China, ma in land China, Mongolian People's Republic, Nor th Korea, and Nor th Viet-Nam. 142 the end of the mon th in which the goods were cleared through customs, or w i th in five years for imports of ships, aircraft, large machines, and ma jor plants, provided that payments of debts are not made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest cus tomary date in the t rade ). However, commercial credits with the latest day of payment w i th in 90 days from inward clearance can be paid at any time w i th in that period if any savings are achieved as a result. The authorized exchange dealer may make payment before clearance of the goods, provided that the probable date of clear- ance lies w i th in two weeks from the date of pay- ment. For ships, aircraft, heavy machinery, and major installations, advance payments cannot be made more than 14 days before the date stipu- lated as the latest permissible date in the con- trac t, and not more than one year before the expected inward clearance of the goods (or the recording in a Danish ship register). All other advance payments for imports require prior approval by the National Bank; they are approved when the payment is genuine and in accordance w i th the traditions of the trade. Payments for Invisibles The Na t ional Bank has delegated to authorized exchange dealers the au thor i ty to permit pay- ments for most invisibles to be made freely, pro- vided that paymen ts of debts are not made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest in the contract (or before the latest custo- mary date in the t r ad e ); only in a few cases is approval from the Bank required. Transfers of up to DKr 2,000 for any permitted purpose may be made without delivery of forms. Foreign exchange for travel is allocated freely and may be obtained for travel to any country, but not earlier than two weeks before the trip if the amount applied for exceeds the equ iva lent of DKr 2,000. Foreign exchange in banknotes and coins may be pur- chased from agencies or ind iv idua ls other than the authorized exchange dealers, provided that the amount does not exceed DKr 2,000 for each transaction. Payments of any kind to Rhodesia, except pay- ments for pensions, for strictly humanitarian, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution medical, or educational purposes, or for the pur- chase of news material, are prohibited. Travelers may take out freely DKr 2,000 in Danish bankno tes and coins, and any amount in foreign bankno tes or other means of paymen t. The DKr 2,000 l im it may be exceeded by non- residents, who may export any amount of Danish banknotes and coins derived from sales of foreign currency in Denmark or brought in by them when they entered Denmark. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of produc ts in tended for s t r ic t ly med i- cal purposes, educa t ional ma te r ial or other equ ip- ment for schools and the like, pub l ica t ions, and news material. Exports to any coun t ry of ma jor ag r icu l tu ral and fishery products require export licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Ag r icu l tu re or the M in is try of Fisheries. Exports of pou l t ry, bacon, and cheese are licensed in view of impo rt quo tas established by cer ta in o ther coun tr ies. Exports of a few i n d u s t r i al produc ts to the "Free List Area" and of all produc ts to other coun t r ies requ i re licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Commerce, the primary purposes of the regu la t ions being to safeguard the f u l f i l lm e nt of b i la te ral obligations, to avoid excessive credits to impo r t ing countries, and to serve strategic purposes. Export proceeds must be transferred to Den- mark w i thout undue de lay unless the Na t ional Bank permits otherwise. However, this obligation does not apply to amoun ts wh ich are to be used w i th in three mon ths to settle or to offset the cost of cer ta in commercial expenses. Foreign exchange receipts must be offered for sale to the Na t ional Bank or to an au thor ized exchange dealer w i th- out u n d ue delay, except that an ind iv idual resi- dent may hold foreign bankno tes and coins not exceeding DKr 2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be t rans fe r red to Denma rk, unless the Na t ional Bank permits otherwise, and offered for sale to the Bank or to an authorized exchange dealer DENMARK w i thout u n d ue delay, w i th exceptions similar to those th at apply to export proceeds (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above). Travelers may b r ing in any amount of Danish bankno tes and coins, foreign bankno tes, and other Danish or foreign means of paymen t. Capital Res iden ts have an obligation to repatriate pro- ceeds realized f rom the sale or l iqu ida t ion of assets abroad. Transfers abroad may be made by residents to pay interest on, or to redeem upon ma tu r i ty, or to repurchase the transferor's own bonds ( in so far as bonds wholly or par t ly denom- inated in foreign currenc ies are concerned, only to the ex tent necessary for cu r rent amo r t iza t ion pu rposes ), to lend amoun ts not exceeding DKr 200,000 in a ca lendar year to subs id ia ry companies, branches, etc., or to a member of the resident's f am i l y, and to buy fore ign securities th at do not represent direct investments in foreign commercial or indus t r ial enterprises, provided that the securities are acquired on the basis of a subscr ip t ion r ight to shares or the like owned by the res ident concerned or provided that the resi- dent f u r n i s h es proof that he has repa tr ia ted a corresponding amount w i th in the last 12 months f rom the sale of foreign securities to a nonresi- den t. The Na t ional Bank has granted a general permission to authorized exchange dealers to make t rans fe rs abroad, w i th in certain limits, for account of th e ir resident customers in connection w i th direct investments or with the private acqu is i t ion of real estate abroad. The au thor i ty is limited to DKr 40,000 a year for each for- eign enterprise for direct investments and to DKr 40,000 a person for pr iva te acquisition of real estate. Permission f rom the Na t ional Bank is requ i red for most other transfers abroad of a capital n a t u re by residents. Direct investments abroad by residents are normally approved, but portfolio inves tment abroad is generally not allowed. Loans and credits involving nonresidents and made in connection with commercial transac- tions are normally permitted, subject to certain limitations. Danish em ig ran ts are granted an exchange allowance of up to DKr 40,000 for each person du r ing the first year af ter emigration. Funds 143 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK exceeding this amount must be credited to a Cap- ital Account in the name of the owner and may be transferred abroad one year af ter emigration. Direct investment in Denmark by nonresidents may be made without any special license if the transaction concerns industry, commerce, handi- craf ts, hotel business, or transportation, and if the investment does not increase total direct foreign investment in the enterprise concerned by more than DKr 40,000 in each calendar year. Other direct investment by nonresidents requires per- mission from the Ministry of Commerce, which is granted liberally in accordance with Denmark's obligations as a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The purchase by a nonresident of real property in Denmark usually requires a special license from the Ministry of Justice. A nonresident who is or has been a Danish national may freely purchase or subscribe to securities expressed solely in Danish kroner which do not represent direct investment. Other nonresidents may purchase or subscribe to bonds that are quoted daily and are expressed solely in Danish kroner, when the f u n ds have been obtained from the liquidation of investments in Denmark. They may purchase or subscribe to shares that are quoted daily, are expressed solely in Danish kroner, and do not represent direct investment, when the funds have been obtained from the liquidation of Danish shares, or when the acquisition is made on the basis of subscription rights to shares. Nonresi- dents may grant credits w i th in certain l im i ts to residents to finance purchases of commodities abroad and to finance the granting of credits for exports. They may, fu r th e r, grant loans of DKr 100,000 to DKr 1 million per borrower in a calendar year to finance the borrower's own enter- prise in the fields of agriculture, industry, trade, handicrafts, hotel business, or transportation, pro- vided that the activity in question does not exclu- sively or essentially consist in financing, trading in real estate, or building and construction activities, and provided that the ma tur i ty is at least five years. Finally, they may grant loans up to DKr 200,000 per borrower in a calendar year to subsidiary companies, branches, etc., and to mem- bers of the nonresident's fam i ly. Municipalities and public utility companies may as a rule issue debenture loans abroad with- 144 out special permission of the National Bank, but their foreign borrowing is subject to control by the competent executive department of the Gov- ernment. Transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquida- tion of all types of investments and transfers of all other liquid funds in Denmark owned by non- residents other than newly emigrated Danish nationals are permitted freely, irrespective of when and how the original investment was acquired. Interest and repayment of principal on authorized loans, credits, and deposits received from persons and firms who are nonresidents at the time of receipt may be paid freely, with the proviso that loans and credits obtained from a nonresident must not be amortized or repaid in fu ll more than 14 days before the amortization payment or repayment is due, or before the cus- tomary date in the trade; commercial credits for which the latest permissible date of payment under the contract lies within 90 days from inward clearance may be repaid at any time w i th in that period if it results in any savings. Inheritances and gifts to relatives may nor- mally be transferred to any country without limi- ta t ion. Individual payments above DKr 2,000 as g i f ts to persons other than relatives require approval f rom the National Bank. Such approval is normally given for bona fide gifts. Imports and exports of securities are subject to regulations, the details of which are established by the National Bank, or, when exports of speci- fied multiple currency Danish bonds are con- cerned, by the Ministry of the Interior. Bona fide imports of Danish securities payable only in Danish kroner are permitted. Exports of Danish and foreign securities owned by nonresidents are normally permitted also. Danish securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may, with certain exceptions, be sold freely to residents. For- eign securities held in Denmark and belonging to nonresidents may with certain exceptions, be sold to residents only with the permission of the National Bank. Foreign securities held in Den- mark may be negotiated freely between residents, provided that the exchange control regulations concerning emigrants are not circumvented. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins in Denma rk. Residents other than the mon- etary au thor i t ies and authorized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to acqu ire gold abroad. Imports and exports of gold norma l ly requ ire licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Commerce; such licen- ses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and indu s t r ial users. Imports of gold in bars or coins, unless made by or on behalf of the mone ta ry authorities, are subject to tu rnover tax at a rate of 12.5 per cent but not to customs duty. Changes during 1969 Dur ing the year, restrictions on imports origi- nating in Eastern European countries were relaxed fu r the r. January 1. Brazil and Colombia were included in the "Free List Area." January 1. The global import quotas for 1969 went into effect. January 1. Imports of additional agr icu l tural commodities were liberalized, provided that they originated in the "Free List Area." February 13. The Na t ional Bank granted a general permission to authorized exchange dealers to make transfers abroad, w i th in certain limits, for account of their resident customers in connec- tion with direct investments or with the pr iva te acquisition of real estate abroad. The au tho r i ty was limited to DKr 40,000 a year for each for- eign enterprise for direct inves tmen ts and to DKr 40,000 a person for the private acquisition of real estate. Previously, the National Bank had already been giving ind iv idual permissions along the same lines. February 13. Exchange dealers were reminded by the National Bank that their own foreign currency holdings with foreign correspondents (other than those set aside to cover commitments falling due at a later da te) could not be placed at more than seven days' notice. February 20. The National Bank requested the authorized banks to reduce their foreign assets to the average for the first half of 1968. DENMARK May 9. Foreign exchange fixing and dealings of the National Bank were suspended. May 10. Residents were forbidden, except with the permission of the National Bank, to make advance paymen ts for imports of commodi- ties or services or to make paymen ts of interest and amo r t iza t ion on foreign debts before the da te s t ipu la ted at the t ime of contracting of the debt as the latest date of paymen t. Advance payments for imports were generally permitted by the National B a n k, provided t h at the payment did not take place more than 30 days before the inward clearance of the goods. May 10. It was prohibited for nonbank resi- dents to make deposits by transfers from Den- ma rk into accounts with foreign banks or foreign postal Giro systems, or to make deposits within Denmark in foreign currency accounts that were, with the permission of the National Bank, main- tained by residents w i th Danish authorized ex- change dealers. June 9. More detailed regulations replaced the proh ib i t ion on advance paymen ts of May 10. The ma in new rules were : ( 1 ) For agreements entered into on or before May 10, 1969 (excluding commodities mentioned under ( 3) be low), advance payments could not be made more than 14 days before the date stip- u la ted as the latest permissible date in the con- trac t, and, in any case, not earlier than one year before the expected date of inward clearance of the goods (or the performance of the services). ( 2) For agreements entered into af ter May 10, 1969 (exc lud ing commodities mentioned under (3) below), advance payments could not be made more than 14 days before inward clear- ance of the goods (or the performance of the services). (3) For agreements concerning deliveries of ships, a i rc ra f t, heavy machinery, and major installations (whe ther entered into before or after May 10, 1969), advance payments could not be made more than 14 days before the date stipu- lated as the latest permissible date in the con- tract, and not more than one year before the expected inward clearance of the goods or the recording on a Danish ship register. It was required, moreover, that the terms of payment be cus tomary in the field in question. 145 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DENMARK (4) Payments of debts relating to imports of goods and services and of interest and amor t iza- tion on any loans and credits could not be made more than 14 days before the day stipulated as the latest day of payment in the contract (or before the customary date in the t r a d e ). How- ever, commercial credits with the latest day of payment w i th in 90 days from inward clearance could be paid at any time w i th in that period if any savings (in the form of rebate, etc.) were achieved as a resu l t. App l ica t ions for permission to accelerate payments of interest and install- ments on debt to nonresidents were refused by the National Bank only when such paymen ts were considered to be not normal. June 9. Exchange dealers were forb idden to deliver travel exchange in excess of the equivalent of DKr 2,000 a transaction earlier than two weeks before the start of the trip. Payments abroad for ren tal of means of transportation, hotel accommodation, and the like, could be made only for a period of up to 90 days at a time and at the earliest two weeks before the period to wh ich the payment related. June 9. Payments related to the purchase or cons truc t ion of, or the acquisition of long-term user's rights to, real estate abroad for noncom- mercial use could only take place if the payor was going to the property for vacation purposes or the l ike w i th in one year from the date of pay- men t. July 1. Imports of additional agricultural com- modities were liberalized, provided that they orig- inated in the "Free List Area." July 1. The "Free List Area" was extended to inc lude the Syrian A rab Republic and the United A rab Republic. July 9. The repurchase abroad by resident institutions of their own securities denominated either in foreign currencies or in both Danish k roner and foreign currencies that have not been devalued against the Danish krone since the date of issue was restricted. The only repurchases allowed were those of bonds bought by the insti- tu t ions that had issued them, and then only to the extent necessary to meet their current amortiza- tion commitments. October 8. Proposals were adopted by the Government for a substantial relaxation of rema in ing import restrictions, particularly those on commodities originating in CMEA countries. 146 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Exchange Rale System The par va lue is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Dominican Peso or RD$1.00 = US$1. Exchange transactions in U.S. dollars between the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic and other banks take place at the par value, plus a commission of l/32 of 1 per cent. Exchange trans- actions by commercial banks w i th the pub l ic also take place at the par va lue, subject to bank ing commissions of 1A of 1 per cent buying and Vi of 1 per cent selling. W i th the exception of pay- ments for imports made w i th the importer's own foreign exchange, all paymen ts abroad must be made through banks, and all exchange received must be sold to bank s. The commerc ial banks are required to t rans fer to the Central Bank all exchange purchased. On August 1, 1953, the Dominican Republic no t if ied the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange and trade control policy is made by the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange control is adm in is te red by the Central Bank. The Monetary Board establishes import quo tas, which are adm in is te red and controlled by the Foreign Exchange Depa r tment of the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Imports from the United States that are financed by the U.S. AID must be effected under special letters of credit. Certain import commis- sions must be paid in local cu r rency only. Other- wise no obligations are imposed on importers, exporters, or o ther res iden ts in respect of the method to be followed or the currency to be used for paymen ts to or from nonresidents.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of 79 categories of goods, i n c l u d i ng 1 On J a n u a ry 2, 1970, a reciprocal credit agreement between the cen tral banks of Colombia and the Dom in i- can R e p u b l ic went into effec t. Certain paymen ts between the two countries hence fo r th took place over special accounts. au tomob i les w i th an f.o.b. value in excess of RD$2,000, are prohibited. Imports of certain other commodities are restricted by quotas. Speci- fied commod i t ies are exempt from quota and pro- h i b i t i on when they a re f inanced w i th the import- er's own fo re ign exchange; such imports are also exempt f rom advance deposits and f rom prepay- ment of impo rt taxes and surcharges. Licensing controls are m a i n t a i n ed over a few other com- modities for reasons of hea l th or secur i ty. All pay- men ts for imports requ i re the approval of the Central Bank, except those made with the impor ter's own exchange. Commodities subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions can be imported and settled w i th official exchange only against a letter of credit. The same requ i rement applies to some other goods, includ- ing alcoholic beverages, certain construction ma ter ia ls, some pe r fumes and cosmetics, and some spices. All letters of credit, except those covering imports of industrial machinery and ma te r ia ls, medical products, and certain transpor- ta t ion equ ipmen t, must be prepaid in fu ll by the impor ter. The commercial banks transmit to the Central Bank each day a list of applications for all impo r ts against letters of credit. After the Cen t ral Bank approves an application and the impo r ter (whe re necessary in accordance with Decree No. 239) prepays import duties and sur- charges, the letter of credit may be opened. For prepaid letters of credit the Central Bank debits the account of the commercial bank for the peso equivalent at the time of opening the letter of credit. The peso equivalent of other letters of credit is forwarded to the Central Bank after they have been negotiated and exchange is requested by the commercial bank. Importers of most com- modities subject to the prepaid letter of credit obligation are also required to prepay 80 per cent of the estimated value of customs duties and sur- charges on the goods prior to the opening of the letter of credit. In principle, exchange for import payments is made available w i th in not more than five working days f rom the receipt of the application, but since May 1966 there have been delays in the provi- sion of exchange. 147 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Most imports are subject to an internal con- sumption tax of 20 per cent ad valorem. Vir- tually all imports are also subject to customs surcharges (impuestos internos) ranging from 20 per cent to 200 per cent of the f.o.b. value; for most imports, however, they are 56.6 per cent. Imports of automobiles are subject to a further surcharge of RD$700 per unit. Imports of agri- cultural and industrial machinery and equipment and spare parts are subject to a single import tax (including customs duties) of 5 per cent. Certain foodstuffs are exempt f rom import taxes and others are relieved under special arrangements in times of seasonal shortage. Advance import deposits of 10 per cent, 20 per cent, or 40 per cent of the f.o.b. value are required for many imports, unless the goods are paid for with the importer's own foreign exchange. The advance deposits are collected by the Customs Administration prior to the clear- ance of the goods, and are lodged in the Central Bank for a period of three months. A number of goods are exempt, including certain foodstuffs, medical supplies, industrial and agricultural machinery and spare parts, commercial vehicles, industrial raw materials and packing materials, and petroleum products. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is only given after careful examination of the application and if the transaction is considered genuine and essen- tial. The allocation of foreign exchange for travel, family remittances by Dominican nationals, medi- cal expenses abroad, and insurance other than insurance on merchandise imports is suspended. Airline tickets are subject to a tax of 15 per cent when the price of the ticket is over RD$200 or from RD$5 to RD$25 when the price is RD$200 or less. Nonresidents working in the Dominican Republic may remit up to 60 per cent of their salaries abroad for any purpose. For students pursuing approved courses, exchange requests for monthly maintenance allowances are approved up to US$150 for studies in Latin America, Puerto Rico, and Spain, and up to US$200 for studies in the United States (except Puerto Rico), Canada, 148 and other European countries. Exchange is also sold for remittances to authorized students to meet expenses for tuition, books, and other fees. Applications for exchange for contractual pay- ments, such as interest and amortization pay- ments on loans registered with the Central Bank, are approved in conformity with the terms of the contract. Transfers of profits and dividends on foreign investments are approved on presentation of a balance sheet which has been agreed with the tax authorities, provided that taxes due on these earnings have been paid, including an 18 per cent tax on dividends remitted or credited to nonresidents. In some cases the transfer may have to be effected in monthly or quarterly installments. In principle, exchange for payments for invisi- bles is made available within five days from receipt of the application, but there have been delays. Travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of any travel allocation they have obtained. Travelers are not permitted to take with them any domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for sugar, in connection with the operation of export quotas established under the International Sugar Agree- ment, and for coffee, cocoa, and tobacco. Within two working days of receiving payment, exporters of Dominican products must surrender through the commercial banks to the Central Bank for- eign exchange equal to 100 per cent of the f.o.b. value of their exports. Exporters may not extend credit for more than 90 days from the date of embarkation without authorization by the Central Bank. Proceeds from invisibles The foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles are subject to surrender requirements and must be surrendered to the Central Bank through the commercial banks. The import of Dominican banknotes and coins is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the inward move- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ment of capital by either residents or nonresi- dents. Inwa rd capital remittances must be regis- tered with the Central Bank and must be converted into pesos at that Bank. Registration may cover the va lue of machinery and equip- men t, as well as in tang ib le assets such as licenses and patents. Applications for approval of out- ward capital remittances must be submitted through the commercial banks to the Central Bank. W i thd rawa ls of capital by foreigners leav- ing the Dom in ican Republic are authorized in reasonable amoun ts, sometimes with provision for the t ran s fer to be effected in annual installments. Applications by residents to transfer capital abroad to make portfolio investments, purchase real estate, etc., are not normally approved. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Dominican Republic for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, in the Dominican Republic or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler requ ire licenses issued by the Central Bank; such DOMINICAN REPUBLIC licenses are not norma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- t a ry authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1969 January 1. By v i r tue of Law No. 394 of December 31, 1968, the 20 per cent in ternal con- sump t ion tax levied on most imported commodi- ties was extended for one year. January 1. Decree No. 3164 of December 27, 1968 extended un t il December 31, 1969 the system of import controls established in 1967 and a lready extended to June 30, 1969. Importers of items und er quo ta would in 1969 receive foreign exchange allocations equivalent to 60 per cent of impor ts of these items during the base period ( the 12 mon ths prior to Ju ly 10, 1967). May 6. Law No. 432 went into effect. It regu- lated t rade and exchange transactions within indus t r ial f ree zones. August 18. Commissions due to domestic rep- resen ta t ives or agents of foreign firms in respect of import sh ipmen ts could be paid in Dominican pesos only. December 1. The system of import controls was f u r t h er ex tended un t il June 30, 1970. 149 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rale System imports and Import Payments ECUADOR Permitted imports are divided into two catego- ries: List I, consisting of essential and semiessen- tial goods, and List II, consisting of less essential and l u x u ry goods. All goods not included in these two lists are prohibited, except books, newspa- pers, periodicals, and printed or recorded music, which may be imported freely without a license. Prior import licenses are required for all per- mitted imports exceeding a value of US$100, with the exceptions specified below. A few goods may only be imported from LAFTA countries, and some only from Paraguay; with these exceptions, import licenses are issued freely irrespective of the origin of the goods, provided that the appro- priate advance deposits, monetary stabilization surcharges, and additional import taxes have been paid and that the required prepayments of import duties have been made. The licenses automati- cally entitle the holders to obtain exchange at the official rate to cover the c.i.f. value of the imports upon presentation of the shipping documents; advance payments for imports and payments under letters of credit are generally prohibited. Imports for which licenses are not required (goods valued at US$100 or less) are paid for w i th exchange purchased in the free market. For some goods, import licenses are issued which do not entitle the importer to foreign exchange at the official rate ("no exchange licenses," Ucencias sin divisas, or permisos de importación no reem- The par value is 0.0493706 gram of fine gold per Ecuadoran Sucre or S/ 18.00 = US$1. The official rates are S/ 17.82 buying, and S/ 18.18 selling, per US$1. These rates apply to all exports except bananas, to payments for imports and related invisibles, to official transactions, to other essential invisibles, to registered capital, and to all operations with respect to private foreign debt registered after July 14, 1961. Minimum surrender prices result in different effective rates for exports of bananas. For all transactions not made at the official rate there is a free market, in which the rates on December 31, 1969 were S/ 21.14 buying, and S/ 21.21 selling, per US$1. Purchases and sales of exchange in the free mar- ket between the public and authorized agencies are subject to an exchange tax of l/2 of 1 per cent on each side of the transaction. Administration of Control The Monetary Board has extensive powers with respect to import policy. Most transactions pass through the official ma rke t, which is under the control and supervision of the Central Bank of Ecuador. The Central Bank also issues import and export licenses. Exports of coffee to "new markets," however, require the prior authoriza- tion of the Ministry of Indu s t ry and Commerce. Transactions that do not qu a l i fy for the official ma rket may enter the free ma rket conducted by exchange houses and commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Most settlements with Bulgaria, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, Poland, and Rum an ia must take place through bilateral accounts. Payments between Ecuador and Colombia and Peru must be made through accounts maintained with each other by the Central Bank of Ecuador and the other central banks concerned, within the frame- work of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. Exchange proceeds from other countries must be received in convertible currencies. Whenever pos- sible, import payments must be made in the currency stipulated in the import license. 150 ments w i th the Un i ted States, grants f r om fo r- eign governmen ts and o rgan iza t ions, impo r ts of certain goods to be used for the cons t ruc t ion and e q u i pm e nt of ho te ls, all impo r ts of List I and List II commod i t ies f inanced w i th fo re ign credit of more t h an f ive years, a ll impo r ts f rom Pa raguay, impor ts of cap i tal goods financed by in terna t ional organ iza t ions or by suppliers' cred it for at least one year a f ter a r r iva l, impo r ts of medical supplies and e q u i pm e nt made by off ic ial hea l th or social service i n s t i t u t i o n s, impo r ts by the un iv e r s i t i es and po ly techn ical schools, and impo r ts of mach ine ry, e q u i pm e n t, and ma te r ia ls needed for pub l ic works. The advance deposit must be made in sucres by the impo r t er when applying for an impo rt license; the impo r ter m u st at the same t ime lodge w i th the Cen t ral Bank a p repayment in local cu r rency of pa rt of the impo rt du ty. The rates for the advance impo rt deposits are de te rm ined in accordance w i th three fac tors: ( 1) the type of good impo r ted, (2) the te rms of paymen t, and ( 3) the da i ly average net foreign reserves of the Cen tral Bank in the preced ing mon th. There are 5 categories of impor ts, one in List I and f o ur in List II, 7 ranges of p a ym e nt terms, and 11 ranges of the reserve level, g iv ing a possible to tal of 385 advance depos it ra tes. They range f rom zero to 700 per cent of the c . i .f. v a lu e, but for impo r ts by the Gove rnment or by o f f ic ial agencies they cannot exceed 100 per cent of the c . i .f. va lue. At the end of 1969, the advance deposit ra tes for impo r ts to be pa id w i th in 90 days were 25 per cent for List I goods and f rom 50 per cent to 230 per cent for List II goods; no advance deposits were r e q u i r ed for List I or List II goods w i th more t h an five yea rs' f inanc ing. The prescribed p r e p a ym e nt of im p o rt du ty is 15 per cent of the d u ty on commod i t ies in List I and 70 per cent of the d u ty on those in List II.1 Advance deposits are released pari passu w i th the m a k i ng of the im p o rt paymen t s. That part of the deposits wh ich exceeds 100 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue is released at the t ime of customs clearance. Most impor ts are also subject to mone ta ry sta- b i l iza t ion surcharges and to add i t ional impo rt taxes. The surcharge is 11 per cent of the c.i.f. value for List I items and 22 per cent for List II 1 Raised to 40 per cent and 80 per cent, respectively, on Janua ry 23, 1970. ECUADOR items. Surcharges must norma l ly be paid in sucres to the Central Bank when app l ica t ion is made for an impo rt license. Surcharges on List I i tems financed w i th suppliers' credit of a year or more a f t er a r r ival of the goods may be pa id when the final import payment is made. Exempt f rom surcharges are d ip loma t ic imports, imports financed by loans f rom foreign governments or in t e rn a t ion al organizations, imports by certain religious orders, imports by the official banana sh ipp ing company (Flota Banane ra E cu a to r i an a ), certain imports of the State Ra i lways, all imports of the M in is try of Na t ional Defense, and all impo r ts o r ig ina t ing in Paraguay. Certain goods on List II are sub ject to an additional import tax of 10 per cent or 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value, payab le in sucres; the others are exempt. Exempt f rom this tax are d ip loma t ic impor ts and imports financed by fore ign governmen ts or in te rna t ional organ iza t ions. Payments for invisibles Payments for transactions in invisibles that may be made th rough the official market requ ire an exchange license f rom the Central Bank; the license is granted free ly for all authorized trans- actions. These transac t ions include ce r ta in invisi- bles connected with trade (e.g., freight and insur- a n c e2); necessary expenses of Ecuadoran stu- dents abroad who are registered w i th the Cen- t ral B a n k; most paymen ts of the Government and of o f f ic ial en t i t ies; payment of interest on regis- tered fo re ign loans up to 7.5 per cent annua l ly; p aym en ts of profits and dividends on registered foreign inves tmen ts up to 12 per cent annually; and contractual operations relating to foreign debt registered with the Central Bank af ter July 14, 1961. Other paymen ts for invisibles may be made free ly th rough the free ma rke t. Residents t rave l ing abroad must pay a tax of S/ 400 for each exit visa, starting from the second visa in the ir passports. Tickets for foreign travel are taxed at the rate of 8 per cent on tickets for depa r tu re from Ecuador and 4 per cent on tickets for the re tu rn trip to Ecuador. The cost of fre ight of imports is subject to a 4 per cent tax. 2 According to Decree No. 1320 of October 21, 1966, f re ight on imports and exports must be covered with insurance companies established in Ecuador. This pro- vision is not yet in force, pending the issuance by the Super in tendent of Banks of regulations for its imple- men ta t ion. 151 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses to ensure, among other things, the full surrender of the exchange proceeds to the Central Bank; licenses are issued freely. Minimum surrender prices (aforos) are established for exports of bananas (according to port of shipment, destination, and season); they differ for bananas shipped on the stem and those shipped in boxes. Exchange corresponding to those prices must be surrendered at the official rate, while any excess receipts may be sold in the free market. Exports of coffee, cacao, sugar, and gold and silver filigree work are subject to export taxes of 9.4 per cent (washed, or 9.6 per cent unwashed), 10 per cent, 0.75 per cent, and 10 per cent, respectively. Export taxes are also levied on certain livestock and on certain fishery products. Exports of bananas in boxes are subject to a specific export du ty expressed in sucres per pound.3 All exports of bananas are subject to certain additional specific taxes, except those carried out through ports in Esmeraldas Province. Exports of coffee to "new markets" are exempt from export tax and all other taxes levied on exports. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles related to trade and all receipts of the Government and of official entities have to be sold to the Central Bank at the offi- cial rate. Other receipts from invisibles (includ- ing those from tourism) need not be surrendered and may be sold in the free market. Capital Receipts of private foreign capital must be sur- rendered to the Central Bank at the official buying rate if registration with the Central Bank is desired. This also applies to foreign exchange sold by foreign companies for the purpose of obtaining local currency for salaries, taxes, and other local expenses. Foreign capital entering in the form of machinery and equipment may also be registered with the Central Bank. The Central Bank can refuse to register private foreign capital if the investment is not considered to be in the interest of the Ecuadoran economy. All unreg- istered private capital may enter without limita- 3 The 21.4 per cent export tax on bananas is levied on an assumed f.o.b. value expressed in sucres per pound, which for bananas in boxes varies with province of origin, port of shipment, destination, and season. 152 tion through the free market. An Industrial Pro- motion Law provides for certain exemptions from import duties to certain categories of industrial investment. Foreign exchange at the official rate may be obtained for the withdrawal of registered foreign investment from Ecuador five years af ter the date of registration. Exchange at the official rate is also granted for profit remittances up to 12 per cent a year on registered capital in nonbanking investments, up to 10 per cent a year for branches of foreign banks, and for interest up to 7.5 per cent on registered foreign loans. Contractual re- payments of registered foreign loans may also be made at the official rate. All other capital remit- tances, either by residents or nonresidents, may be made through the free market. Capital receipts of the Government and of official entities are converted at the official buying rate, and payments at the official selling rate. However, the proceeds from certain loans granted to the Government and official entities by foreign organizations are converted by the Central Bank at the official selling rate of S/ 18.18, instead of at the official buying rate of S/ 17.82, per US$1. In such instances, the Central Bank receives from the Government or the borrower a pay- ment of S/ 0.072 per US$1 as reimbursement for the Central Bank's share of the spread between the official buying and selling rates. Commercial banks are permitted to hold up to 10 per cent of their capital and reserves as assets in the form of their own holdings of foreign exchange. Gold Residents other than the Central Bank may export gold only in the form of filigree work whose gold content represents not more than 25 per cent of its market value. Imports of monetary gold are reserved for the Central Bank; they are treated as List I imports and are free of advance deposit and stabilization surcharge. Imports of nonmonetary gold in bars may be made either by the Central Bank or any other resident and are treated as List II imports subject to advance deposit and a 22 per cent stabilization surcharge. Gold bars are exempt from import duty, while that on semiworked gold is 55 per cent ad valo- rem. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1969 January 3. Ministry of Industry and Commerce Decision No. 6388 set the special levy on sugar exports at US$1.43 per quintal. January 6. Resolution No. 529 of the Mone- tary Board exempted imports of mone ta ry gold from the advance deposit requ iremen ts; pre- viously, they were already exempt from impo rt du ty and monetary stabilization surcharge. Imports of nonmone tary gold in bars were made subject to a 20 per cent advance deposit and a 20 per cent s tab i l iza t ion surcharge. January 14. Private persons were permitted to import nonmonetary gold. February 4. Regulation 532 of the Monetary Board changed the advance import deposit scheme. The new rates were as follows: For List I commodities, 35 per cent on goods financed with fore ign credits with a ma tu r i ty of up to 270 days (previously up to 180 day s ); 15 per cent on goods financed with foreign credit with a ma tu r i ty of between 270 days and one year (previously between 180 days and one y e a r ); no advance deposit if the goods were financed abroad for longer than a year. For List II goods, the advance deposits were raised as follows: for group (a) from 50 per cent to 70 per cent; for group (b) from 70 per cent to 100 per cent; for group (c) from 100 per cent to 130 per cent; and for group (d) from 140 per cent to 190 per cent. February 5. The requirements for advance payment of import duties were raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent for List I imports, and from 45 per cent to 70 per cent for List II imports. February 6. Ministry of Finance Decision No. 31 reduced the export tax on bananas by 50 per cent, originally for 30 days, but with the proviso that the reduction could be extended for a longer period. The old rate was 21.4 per cent. March 10. A trade agreement was signed with the U.S.S.R. Payments would take place in con- vertible currencies. The agreement entered into force on July 16, 1969. April 29. Regulation 535 of the Monetary Board exempted the universities and polytechni- ECUADOR their f rom advance deposits on cal schools imports. May 6. Law No. 69-12 imposed a tax of 1 per cent on the local currency equivalent of pur- chases and sales in the free exchange market between the public and authorized agents. Article 3 of the same law modified the tax of J anu a ry 30, 1946 on ship and plane passages. The tax was increased to 4 per cent on tickets for a re tu rn tr ip to Ecuador and to 8 per cent on tickets for depar ture from Ecuador. For students and for persons traveling for health reasons the rates would be 2 per cent and 3 per cent, respec- tively. Article 3 also raised the freight tax on imports from 2 per cent to 4 per cent. May 6. M in is try of Finance Decision No. 96 suspended for 30 days (May 6-June 4) all fiscal taxes on banana exports from Esmeraldas Prov- ince (other than the obligatory contributions to sanitary campaigns). May 13. Imports of cotton were suspended. May 14. Decision No. 6991 of the Minister of Industry and Commerce imposed, for the year 1969, a tax on sugar producers amounting to 50 per cent of the profit gained by exporting sugar under the preferential U.S. quota. At the time of obtaining export licenses, the sugar producers concerned were required to deposit 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value with the Central Bank, as provi- sional payment of the tax. Final settlement would take place at the end of the sugar year (Octo- ber 31). The tax of US$1.43 a quintal on sugar exports was abolished. May 26. The Andean Agreement for subre- gional economic integration was signed by Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. May 27. Regulation 536 of the Monetary Board raised the advance import deposit require- ments for goods in List II as follows: On group (b) from 100 per cent to 130 per cent; on group (c) from 130 per cent to 170 per cent; and on group (d) from 190 per cent to 250 per cent. The deposit for group (a) remained unchanged at 70 per cent. Article 2 of the same Regulation established that only that part of the deposits exceeding 100 per cent of the c.i.f. import value would be released on the date of arrival of the goods at cus- 153 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ECUADOR toms; the remaining 100 per cent would be retained for 90 days from that date. per cent to 11 per cent for List I, and from 20 per cent to 22 per cent for List II. June 5. Regulation 538 of the Monetary Board provided that import licenses for goods in List I would only be granted if the imports were financed by foreign credits of at least 90 days. For List II goods credits of at least 180 days would be required. Article 2 of Regu la t ion No. 536 was revoked. June 11. M in is try of Finance Decision No. 139 suspended fiscal taxes on banana exports from ports in Esmeraldas with effect from June 11. The suspension did not apply to obligatory con- tributions for the financing of san i ta ry campaigns. The Decision was revoked on December 17 by Decision No. 326. The latter, in tu rn, was can- celed on December 24 by Decision No. 330. July 17. Executive Decree No. 1477 provided that the 1 per cent tax of May 6 (see above) would be applied in the form of a levy of l/2 of 1 per cent each on purchases and sales of exchange. August 8. The authorization of the Minister of Industry and Commerce was required to clear imported cotton from customs. October 23. Law 69-39 increased the mone- tary stabilization surcharge on imports from 10 October 23. Monetary Board Regulation No. 544 changed the advance import deposit require- men ts. The new scheme determined the rate of the advance deposit in accordance w i th three fac- tors: ( 1) the type of good imported, (2) the terms of paymen t, and (3) the level of the net foreign reserves of the Central Bank ( the ir daily average in the preceding calendar mon th ). The requ i rement for m in imum payment terms, which was in troduced on J u ne 5, 1969, was abolished for all List I and List II imports. December 23. Executive Decree No. 2178 standardized all boxes used for banana exports. Four types were established, with an officially assumed average weight of either 28 or 43 pounds. ( In te rm in is te r ial Decision No. 48 of Janu- ary 28, 1970 added a new type of box with an official weight of 26 pounds, for exports to Japan on ly .) December 31. Decision No. 8133 of the Min- istry of Indus try and Commerce amended Deci- sion No. 6991 of May 14, 1969, w i th effect from January 1, 1970. The payment to be made by sugar producers exporting under the U.S. prefer- ential quo ta was set at 8 per cent of the f.o.b. value. 154 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Raie System Nonresident Accounts EL SALVADOR The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Salvadoran Colón or 0 2.50 = US$1. The rates of the Central Reserve Bank for transac- tions with the public are £ 2.49 buying, and <£ 2.51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transactions by commercial banks w i th the public take place at or within these limits. A stamp tax of y10 of 1 per cent is applicable to all sales of exchange as well as d r a f ts and o ther documen ts embody ing a right to exchange; on amoun ts below £ 100,000 the tax is levied at fixed amoun ts that may be slightly in excess of i/10 of 1 per cent. On November 6, 1946, El Salvador notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obli- gations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control au tho r i ty is exercised by the Central Reserve Bank of El Salvador through its Exchange Control Depa r tmen t. Au tho r i ty to approve ce r ta in paymen ts is delegated to the commercial banks. Exchange licenses for imports are issued by the Exchange Control Depar tmen t. The Cen tral Reserve Bank is also empowered to license exports, but th is power has not been exer- cised. Expor ts of a number of commodities requ ire licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Econ- omy or of Agr icu l ture. Exports of coffee are supervised by the Salvadoran Coffee Company and requ i re licenses issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to Costa Rica, Gu a t em a l a, Hon- du ras, and N ica ragua in respect of trade and specified inv i s ib l es are settled in the currenc ies of those coun tr ies or in Salvadoran colones through the Cámara de Compensaci ón Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Cen tral America to foster the process of eco- nomic in teg ra t ion of the ir countries. Payments to Mexico are also settled th rough the clearing- house. Otherwise, residents are free to make au thor ized paymen ts in any currency they choose. Accred i ted d ip loma t ic missions and other for- eign in s t i tu t ions or persons established in El Sal- vador may be au tho r ized to hold non res ident accoun ts in U.S. do l la rs w i th au tho r ized banks, p rov ided th at such accoun ts are credited w i th for- eign exchange received f rom abroad. The accoun ts of non res iden ts may be utilized free ly, but the comm e r c i al b anks must make periodic reports to the Cen tral Reserve Bank of the move- men ts on such accounts. The m a x im um balance w h i ch may be held on these accounts is fixed by the Exchange Con trol Depa r tmen t. Imports and import Payments Impo r ts f rom all coun tr ies except those of the Cen tral Ame r ican Common Ma rket must be reg- is tered w i th the Central Reserve Bank before orders are placed. Impo rt licenses are required for a i rp lanes, f i rea rms, ammun i t ion, m i l i ta ry e q u i pm e n t, dynam i te, liquors, cotton for i n d u s t r i al use, ju te sacks, skins, leather, some chem ical and pha rmaceu t ical products, coffee for seeding, suga r, and saccharin. Payments and t r a n s f e rs abroad requ i re exchange licenses, which are gran ted f ree ly, provided that the terms of paymen ts do not exceed cer ta in max ima (counted f rom the da te of en t ry of the merchandise into a customs w a r e h o u s e ): ( 1) Imports of raw mate- r ia ls for ind u s t ry, iron and steel products for the cons truc t ion indu s t ry, various spare parts, greases, and lub r i c an ts are au thor ized by the Exchange Control Depa r tment when the terms of payment do not exceed three years.1 (2) Impor ts of staple food products, medicinal produc ts, and medical and surgical supplies must be pa id for w i th in one year .2 Imports of the fol- low ing goods are not subject to max imum credit 1 Four years when the goods o r ig ina te in coun t r ies w i th wh i ch El Salvador had a favo rab le ba lance of trade in 1968, f rom wh ich it receives loans w i th a m a t u r i ty of at least 20 years, or w i th wh ich an in teg ra t ion t rea ty is in force or w i th wh i ch El Salvador m a i n t a i ns other economic ties. - E igh teen mon ths when the goods o r ig ina te in coun- tries w i th wh ich El Salvador had a favo rab le balance of trade in 1968, f rom wh ich it receives loans w i th a m a tu- r i ty of at least 20 years, or with which an integration t rea ty is in force or w i th wh ich El Salvador m a in t a ins other economic ties. 155 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR terms: mach inery and equipment for agriculture and industry, semiprocessed goods for industrial production, surgical equipment, research and edu- cational equipment, scientific and technical books, fertilizers, and insecticides. A prior import deposit in local currency, equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value, is applied to specified nonessential food products, confectionery, alco- holic beverages, tobacco products, perfumes, cos- metics, watches, and jewelry. All goods not men- tioned previously in this paragraph may be imported only against payment before customs clearance. The commercial banks are authorized to pro- vide exchange for import payments not exceeding US$6,000 for imports from Central American countries and US$2,000 for imports from all other countries; larger amounts have to be approved by the Central Reserve Bank. When suppliers abroad request payment in advance for commodities valued at over US$200, a prior deposit of 25 per cent calculated on the value of the advance payment is required from the importer as a guarantee, but industrial and agri- cultural firms may be exempted. These regula- tions are also applicable to goods imported from other countries of the Central American Common Market. Guarantee deposits are refunded when the goods arrive in the country, provided that payment in full has been made to the exporter. Imports originating outside the Central Ameri- can Common Market are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import duty; the surcharge is not applied to industrial equipment and raw materials that are duty-free by virtue of the Industrial Incentives Law. Payments for Invisibles Payments for current invisibles require exchange licenses, which are granted freely for most items, although for certain payments only up to specified limits. Net profits may generally be remitted up to a limit of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital; higher transfers require the authorization of the Ministry of Economy. Per- mission to purchase exchange for travel outside the Central American area (interpreted to mean the Central American Common Market) for tourism, business, or health reasons is granted by 156 the Exchange Control Department up to the equivalent of US$400 a person a trip, on the basis of US$40 a person a day; for amounts in excess of US$400 a person a trip, up to US$1,000, a 100 per cent guarantee deposit in local currency (20 per cent for travel for health reasons) must be lodged with the Central Reserve Bank which is released upon the trav- eler's return.3 The Department also generally authorizes transfers of up to US$150 a month to each adult Salvadoran with permanent residence abroad; larger amounts may be authorized when the need therefor is shown. Students also are allowed US$150 a month, in addition to an instal- lation allowance, tuition, and other expenses. For nationals traveling to Central American countries, the commercial banks have been dele- gated authority to provide exchange as follows: for travel to Costa Rica, Honduras, and Nicara- gua, the equivalent of 0 500 a trip in Costa Rican colones, lempiras, or córdobas; for travel to Guatemala, Guatemalan currency notes up to Q 1,000 a trip, or a cashiers check in Salvadoran colones up to the equivalent of (£ 2,500 a trip (for payment in Guatemala through the Cámara de Compensación Centroamericana). Requests for larger amounts must be submitted to the Cen- tral Reserve Bank. Insurance and reinsurance premiums may be paid for in foreign exchange, provided that the insurance contract was registered with the Exchange Control Department at the time it took effect. Alternatively, insurance companies may receive premiums in colones and periodically obtain from the Exchange Control Department authorization to purchase the foreign currencies they are obliged to transfer abroad. Foreign cur- rencies derived from insurance or reinsurance contracts must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or to an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may take out {£ 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modifica- tion, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American countries. 3 Exchange up to the equivalent of US$500 for specific clinic or hospital expenses abroad is exempt from the guarantee deposit requirement. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required except for a number of foodstuffs and other items of which the authorities wish to ensure an adequate local supply, but the proceeds of all exports must be received through a bank in El Salvador and the foreign exchange must be surrendered to the Cen- tral Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Export transactions must be declared to the Exchange Control Department within 15 days of shipment. The collection terms normally must not exceed 90 days, but longer credit terms may be authorized by the Exchange Control Department. With the exception of sales to "new markets," exports of coffee are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from invisibles All exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to the Central Reserve Bank or an authorized commercial bank. Travelers may bring in {£ 200 in domestic notes and coins. This limit is subject to modification, however, to facilitate border trade with other Central American coun- tries. Capital All exchange receipts resulting from capital transactions must be surrendered. Payments abroad representing capital movements require exchange licenses; such licenses are not granted for resident-owned capital except for investments in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nica- ragua. The entry of capital in the form of foreign investment may be registered with the Ministry of Economy. Registration ensures (1) the remit- tance of net profits up to a l im it of 10 per cent a year of the registered capital (larger amounts may be authorized in special cases by the Minis- try of Economy; (2) amortization payments, subject to exchange control approval, and repatria- tion of the proceeds from the sale of the assets of the enterprise (after payment of taxes) in an amount not exceeding the registered value of the investment;4 and (3) with respect to loans, interest, and amortization as determined at the time of registration. Foreign investments made in 4 A Central Reserve Bank circular of October 26, 1965 includes special regulations on the repatriation of registered foreign investments. EL SALVADOR El Salvador prior to June 1, 1961 must also be registered by the Ministry of Economy or the Exchange Control Department in order to enjoy the same facilities. The Exchange Control Department authorizes, without restriction, the remittance abroad of foreign currency for the payment of interest and amortization on short- term loans from abroad that have been approved by and registered with the Exchange Control Department. The Central Reserve Bank controls the short-term foreign indebtedness of the com- mercial banks through a system of individual quotas. Decree No. 279 of March 27, 1969 sets cer- tain m in imum capital requirements for businesses that are owned by foreign nationals and for those in which foreign nationals have a share-holding interest. For purposes of this Decree, foreign nationals are defined as persons who are not citi- zens of one of the five countries of the Central American Common Market. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in El Salvador for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Reserve Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. In practice, imports of nonmonetary unworked gold are made only by a jewelers' cooperative acting on behalf of its members and other users. Changes during 1969 March 27. Decree No. 279 set minimum capi- tal requirements for direct investments owned by foreign nationals as follows: in commercial enter- prises (£ 100,000; in industrial enterprises (including service industries) 0 50,000. In the case of participation through shareholding, the capital of the businesses must be double the above amounts. A foreign national was defined as anyone who is not a citizen of one of the five countries of the Central American Common Market. 157 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EL SALVADOR September 16. New and longer max imum pay- ment terms were set for specified imports as fol- lows, counting from the date of en try of the mer- chandise into a customs warehouse: 3 years in the case of imports of raw materials for industry, iron and steel products for the construction industry, various spare parts, greases, and lubri- cants; and 1 year for imports of staple food prod- ucts, medicinal products, and medical and surgi- cal supplies. These terms were extended to 4 years and 18 months, respectively, for imports of the first and second group when originating in countries with which El Salvador had a favorable balance of trade in 1968, from which it receives loans with a ma tur i ty of at least 20 years, or with which an integration treaty is in force or with which El Salvador has economic ties. Imports of the following goods were no longer subject to max imum credit terms: machinery and equ ipment for agriculture and indus try, semiproc- essed goods for indus t r ial production, surgical equipment, research and educational equipment, scientific and technical books, fertilizers, and insecticides. Advance deposit requ i remen ts were reintro- duced for all imports of specified luxury goods; a local currency deposit equivalent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue of the goods was prescribed for specified nonessential food products, confection- ery, alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, per- fume s, cosmetics, watches, and jewelry. All other commodities could be imported only against payment before customs clearance. September 16. The exchange allowances for travel were reduced from US$50 to US$40 a person a day, from a basic amount of US$800 a t r ip to US$400, and from a max imum of US$2,000 a trip to US$1,000. September 16. The guarantee deposit required for certain travel exchange was increased from 20 per cent to 100 per cent. September 16. The exchange allowances for fam i ly remittances and for study abroad were reduced from US$300 to US$150 a person a month. September 16. Regulation No. 260 imposed an add i t ional consumption tax on both imported and loca l ly refined gasoline. 158 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GU INEA1 Exchange System The currency of Equa to r ial Gu inea is the Equa tor ial Gu iñean Peseta which is issued by the Central Bank of the Republic of Equa tor ial Gu inea and is defined as equivalent to 0.0126953 gram of fine gold, correspond ing to Ptas EG 70.00 = US$1. The Spanish peseta, which previously was legal tender, is being w i th- drawn f rom circulation. No par value has been established for the Equatorial Gu iñean peseta. The currency is at par with the Spanish peseta. Rates for other currencies are based on those in the Madrid exchange market. All settlements between Equa tor ial Gu inea and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Settlements w i th Spain are made th rough c lear ing accounts and settlements w i th other countries may be made in convertible cu r renc ies. Exchange t ransac t ions must be carried out through author- ized bank s. All paymen ts and t rans fe rs to foreign countries requ i re the prior approval of the Cen- tral Bank, and all receipts in foreign currencies must be surrendered to the Cen tral Bank. All imports and exports require ind iv idual or global licenses issued by the Directorate-General of Foreign Commerce in the M in i s t ry of Commerce; import licenses also requ ire the approval of the Central Bank. Foreign inves tmen ts in Equatorial Gu inea are governed by the General Law on Foreign Invest- ments in Equa tor ial Gu inea. Changes during 1969 May 79. A b i la teral paymen ts agreement was signed w i th Spain. It came in to effect on October 12. October 12. The Central Bank of Equatorial Guinea was established. October 12. Equa tor ial Gu inea issued the Equatorial Gu iñean peseta to replace the pre- vious currency, the Spanish peseta, which ceased to be legal tender. October 12. Decree-Law No. 1 on Exchange 1 Equatorial Gu inea became a member of the In t e r- national Mone ta ry Fund on December 22, 1969. Control and Foreign Trade went in to force. Exchange control was established over the entire na t ional t e r r i to ry. All purchases and sales of m i n t ed gold, gold bars, and foreign exchange were cen tra l ized in the Cen tral B ank, which was placed in charge of exchange control. All receipts of fo re ign exchange by residents had to be sold to the Central B ank for na t ional cu r rency. A ll foreign paymen ts requ ired the pr ior approval of the Central Bank. A ll impor ts and exports requ i red the prior approval of the Directorate- General of Foreign Commerce in the M in i s t ry of Commerce. Impo rt licenses would not entitle the impo r ter to the necessary fore ign exchange u n t il they had been approved by the Central B ank. The Cen t ral B ank could designate b anks or other i n s t i t u t i o ns as au tho r ized to e f fect transac- tions in fo re ign exchange. October 13. The Cen t ral Bank issued certain exchange control in s t ruc t ion s: ( 1) Transfers abroad of wages and salaries by foreign workers were perm i t ted up to 60 per cent of gross earn- ings. ( 2) Transfers of ren ts f rom real estate were pe rm i t ted up to 60 per cent of net rent receipts. (3) R em i t t an c es of prof i ts were pe rm i t ted in m o n t h ly i n s t a l lm e n ts up to 25 per cent in any one year of net l i q u id prof i ts over the previous year. (4) Na t iona ls of Equa to r ial Gu inea tempo- rar i ly abroad and foreign nationals could with- draw f rom the ir savings accounts and rem it abroad up to Ptas EG 5,000 a mon th. (5) The sales proceeds of real estate could be rem i t ted up to 50 per cent of proceeds net of taxes and du t ies. The balance could be remitted in 24 mon th ly ins ta l lmen ts. (6) Any traveler could t ake out w i th him Ptas EG 3,000 in banknotes issued by the Central Bank. (7) Travelers could settle in Equatorial Guiñean pesetas in Equatorial Gu inea the ir fore ign travel passages, both single t icke ts and round- tr ip tickets, provided that the j o u r n ey commenced in Equatorial Guinea. (8) Residents could obtain foreign exchange up to the equivalent of Ptas EG 10,000 a person a calendar year for tourist travel abroad, subject to recording in their passport. (9) For business travel, the exchange allocation was the equiva- lent of Ptas EG 2,000 a person a day for the 159 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution EQUATORIAL GUINEA duration of the journey, up to the equivalent of Ptas EG 50,000 a person a trip. (10) For study abroad, exchange would be granted for tui- tion and living expenses; for nonboarding stu- dents, the allocation for living expenses was up to Ptas EG 5,000 a month. (11) For travel for health reasons, exchange would only be granted to cover expenses proved by original bills. 160 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA Exchange Raie System The par value is 0.355468 gram of fine gold per Ethiopian Dollar or Eth$2.50 = US$1. The official rates are Eth$2.475 buying, and Eth$2.525 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control All transactions in foreign exchange must be carried out through authorized banks and author- ized dealers under the control of the National Bank of Ethiopia. All payments abroad and exports are subject to the supervision of the Exchange Controller, whose office is a depart- ment of the National Bank. Prescription of Currency Outgoing payments are normally made in con- vertible foreign exchange appropriate to the country of the recipient or in U.S. dollars. The net proceeds of exports must be received in a foreign currency that is freely convertible, or in any other foreign currency acceptable to the Exchange Controller. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may hold nonresident accounts either in Ethiopian dollars or in foreign curren- cies at authorized banks. Balances in these accounts may be freely transferred abroad. Transfers between nonresident accounts require prior approval, except those between foreign cur- rency accounts. imports and import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. No import licenses are required. However, payments abroad for imports require exchange licenses; these licenses are granted freely in the currency appropriate to the country of origin, or in any convertible cur- rency that may be requested. Goods ordered through a third country must be supported by evidence of original cost. Payment is normally authorized by letter of credit, mail transfer, tele- graphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight or on an acceptance basis; however, goods wh ich were previously subject to advance deposit requirements or are currently subject to such requ i remen ts may only be imported on "docu- men ts against paymen t" terms. Advance import deposit requ i remen ts at present apply to 104 import items, v i r tua l ly all of which are consumer goods. The rate of the deposit is 25 per cent of the c.i.f. value.1 The deposits must be made in local currency by the importer before placing an order abroad and before applying to the central bank for an exchange license. They are kept in an "Import Blocked Account" at an authorized bank and cannot be released un t il the exchange license is presented to the central bank for can- cellation. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange li- censes. Invisibles connected with trade transactions are treated on the same basis as the goods to which they relate. Foreign nationals may remit up to 35 per cent of their salaries or annual taxable income, provided that they have resided in Ethio- pia for less than six years; this time limit does not apply to foreign nationals who are in contrac- t u al service with the Ethiopian Government, with an au tonomous government organization, or with cer ta in pr iva te institutions, and who have an emp loyment contract specifically entitling them to rem it a percentage of their earnings. Ineligible persons may apply for exchange to meet expenses for ma in tenance of bona fide dependents, educa- tion of children, medical care, and premiums on insu rance policies taken out before April 2, 1962. Subject to proper provision having been made for local taxation, foreign companies may remit divi- dends on their invested and reinvested capital in any currency. Persons traveling abroad are allowed foreign exchange equ iva lent to Eth$75 a day for a maxi- mum period of six weeks in any one calendar year if the journey is made for business purposes, and up to the equ iva lent of Eth$600 a year for persons 16 years of age or over and Eth$420 a 1 The advance deposit requirement was rescinded on February 1, 1970. Henceforth, goods previously subject to it could be paid for by letter of credit, mail transfer, telegraphic transfer, or cash against documents at sight. 161 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ETHIOPIA year for those under 16, if the jou rney is made for pleasure. Travelers may take with them a max imum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. All commodities require export licenses. When applying for a license, an exporter must give details of the goods to be exported, the destination, and the value. The gran t ing of the license by the Exchange Control- ler enables the goods to pass through customs. The licensing system is used to ensure that for- eign exchange receipts are surrendered to the National Bank of Ethiopia within six months and that export proceeds are received in an appropriate currency (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Proceeds front Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be su r rende red. Persons may bring in a max imum of Eth$100 in Ethiopian banknotes. Foreign exchange need not be declared by travelers on en t ry, and its re-export is freely pe rm i t ted. Capital All receipts of capital in the form of foreign exchange must be surrendered. There is no dis- c r im ina t ion regarding the currencies in which for- eign inves tmen ts are accepted. Special conces- sions are made to approved new enterprises financed by domestic or foreign capital; these con- cessions include exemption f rom taxes for a period of five years, admission of all imports of machin- ery free of duty, and permission to foreign inves- tors to remit abroad earned profits after taxation (see section on Paymen ts for Invisibles, above ). Upon liquidation, transfer of the entire imported capital and reinvested profits is permitted in any currency. Emigrants' allowances, transfers of lega- cies, and savings of foreign employees upon r e t i r em e nt are perm i t ted up to the equivalent of Eth$70,000 in foreign currency. Transfers of sums in excess of this amount are authorized up to a total of Eth$70,000 in any subsequent 12- mon th period. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Ethiopia gold coins of a special commemorative issue, as provided in Legal Notice No. 318 of 1966. The owne rsh ip of personal jewelry and articles of ado rnment of which gold or p la t inum forms a pa rt also is perm i t ted. Unless specifically author- ized by the Minister of Finance, the possession or custody, in a qu an t i ty in excess of 10 ounces, of raw or ref ined gold or platinum or of gold or p l a t inum in the form of nuggets, ores, or bullion constitutes an offense. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require li: censes issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for im- ports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au tho r i t i es and indu s t r ial users. Changes during 1969 February 17. The advance import deposit requ i rement was reduced from 100 per cent to 25 per cent. September. Payments for imports subject to advance impo rt deposits could only be made on "documen ts against payment" terms. 162 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.211590 gram of fine gold per Finnish Ma rkka or Fmk 4.19997 = US$1. The official buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar vary within 3A of 1 per cent on either side of the par value.1 Market rates for certain other cu r r en c i e s- va ry between limits which result from comb in ing the o f f ic ial l im i ts for the U.S. dollar ma in ta ined by F in land and such limits in force in the coun try of the other currency con- cerned. Forward p rem iums and discounts are left to the in terp lay of ma rket forces. Official, fixed buy ing and selling rates are applied to the U.S.S.R. rub le and the U.S. dollar when used as a u n it of account on b i la teral clearing accounts. Authorized banks may deal among themselves, w i th the ir F inn ish customers, and with foreign authorized banks, in U.S. dollars and other con- ver t ib le or ex te rna l ly conver t ib le currencies. For- ward transac t ions may be concluded free ly for periods not exceed ing 12 mon ths; fo rwa rd trans- actions w i th res iden ts m u st h a ve a commerc ial basis. Administration of Control The Bank of Finland operates the exchange control system, delegating au tho r i ty to the au thor ized exchange dealers (m a in ly commercial b a n k s ). Impo rt and export l icens ing is adminis- tered by an office subord ina te to the M in i s t ry of Trade and Indus t ry, the Licensing Office, wh ich is headed by a Licensing Board composed of government o f f ic ia l s, i n c l u d i ng a represen ta t ive of the Bank of F in land. Prescription of Currency For prescription of currency purposes, coun- tries are d iv ided into two groups: the bilateral coun tr ies 3 and the convertible currency countries (a ll o th e r s ). Settlements with the bilateral coun- tries must be made in the currency of the agree- m ent or in Finnish m a rkk aa through Restricted Accoun ts. Se t t lemen ts w i th the convertible cur- rency coun t r i es may be made in any convertible cu r rency or th rough Convertible Accounts. One ha lf of the proceeds from exports to Colombia is set off aga inst F i n l a n d 's bilateral debtor balance. Nonresident Accounts There are f o ur categories of nonresident accoun ts: Foreign Exchange Accounts, Converti- b le M a r k ka Accounts, Restricted Markka Accoun ts, and Cap i tal Accounts. 1. Foreign Exchange Accounts are held by nonres iden ts in conver t ib le or bilateral curren- cies.4 These accounts may be credited with amounts received in the currency in which the account is kep t; w i th paymen ts authorized to be made in the cu r rency in which the account is kept; and with in te re st accrued on such accounts. They may be debited for transfers to Capital Accounts; for pay- men ts to residents of Finland; and for withdrawals in F inn i sh cu r rency. If the account is held in a conve r t ib le currency, it may also be debited for t r an s f e rs to o ther Foreign Exchange Accounts in any conver t ib le cu r rency and for transfers abroad or w i thd rawa ls in any convertible currency. If the account is he ld in a b i la teral currency, it may be debited for t ran s fe rs to other Foreign Exchange Accounts in the same currency and for transfers to the respective b i la te ral coun try. 2. Convertible Markka Accounts may be cred- i ted w i th the equ iva lent in Finnish markkaa of convertible currencies sold to an authorized bank; with authorized remittances from residents of F in land to residents of convertible currency coun- tries; w i th transfers from other Convertible M a rkka Accoun ts; w i th the value of Finnish 1 The spread was widened to 1 per cent e i ther side of par, w i th e f fect f rom Feb rua ry 2, 1970. - These are Au s t r i an schillings, Belgian francs, Cana- d ian dollars, Dan ish k rone r, deu tsche ma rk, French francs, Icelandic k ronu r, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands guild- ers, Norweg ian kroner, Por tuguese escudos, pounds ster- ling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish k rono r, and Swiss francs. < At the end of 1969 F in land had bilateral payments agreemen ts w i th Bu lgar ia, mainland China, Czechoslova- k ia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hung a ry, Poland, Ruman ia, and U.S.S.R. However, settlements with Czechoslovakia and Po land have expe r imen ta l ly been placed on a f u l ly con- ver t ib le basis for the year 1970. 4 Res iden ts are also permitted Exchange Accounts. to hold Foreign 163 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in a convertible currency country; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland, including the purchase of foreign exchange; for remittances abroad; and for transfers to other Convertible Markka, Restricted Markka, or Capi- tal Accounts. 3. Restricted Markka Accounts are held by residents of countries w i th which Finland has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3 ). They may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of U.S. dollars, the currencies listed in footnote 2, or the currency of the country of the account holder; w i th transfers from another Restricted Ma rkka Account of the same coun try; with authorized remittances payable to the coun- try of the account holder; w i th the value of Fin- nish banknotes received by an authorized bank from a bank in the country of the account holder; and with interest accrued on the account. They may be debited for authorized payments in Finland in accordance with the relevant payments agreement; for transfers to other Restricted Markka Accounts related to the country of the account holder; for transfers to the country of the account holder; and for transfers to Capital Accounts. 4. Capital Accounts comprise all other nonres- ident accounts. They may be credited with funds available for credit to a Foreign Exchange Account, a Convertible Markka Account, or a Restricted Markka Account; with proceeds from the sale to a resident of any asset held by a non- resident; with interest on the account; with income from nonresident-held assets; and with sums obtained from the redemption of bonds and debentures. If the account holder is a bank, the account may also be credited with transfers from a Capital Account of a resident of the same country. Capital Accounts may be debited for noncommercial current expenses in Finland of and for account of the account holder; for invest- ment in shares and in those bonds and deben- tures that are denominated in Finnish markkaa, provided that the securities are quoted on the stock exchange and are purchased by a bank on behalf of the holder; for transfers to the Capital Account of a bank located in the same country as that of the account holder; and for monthly 164 transfers abroad up to Fmk 2,000 to an account holder who has resided abroad during the last calendar year, and continues to do so, provided that he is des t i tu te in his country of residence. Other transfers between Capital Accounts and other transfers abroad of funds deposited in Cap- ital Accounts require the specific permission of the Bank of Finland. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Most goods may be imported free of license from the multilateral area or license-free area (i.e., nearly all countries with which Finland does not have bilateral payments ag reemen t s5), provided t h at the goods are purchased from and originate in that area. Certain other goods may be imported from the multilateral area under a global quota system, which provides for import licenses to be issued at least up to the amounts of certain value quotas for specified commodity groups; no indus tr ial goods are restricted by global quotas. The total value of the global quotas for 1969 amounted to 0.5 per cent of total 1969 imports. All remaining goods require an ind iv idual license when imported from the multilateral area and are set out in a negative list, the discretionary licensing list, which comprises only agricultural commodities and petroleum products. The only commodities still subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction for the multilateral area are certain agricultural commodities, certain fuels, certain fertilizers, and gold and silver. Import licenses are not required for most com- modities originating in and shipped from the U.S.S.R., and for many commodities originating in and shipped from the other bilateral countries; all commodities liberalized for import from the bilateral area are among those already liberalized for import from the multilateral area. Other imports from the bilateral countries are admitted under licenses up to quotas provided for under the relevant trade agreement. All imports of com- modities originating in countries classified neither in the multilateral area nor in the bilateral area require individual licenses. The State Granary is 5 The exceptions are the Republic of China, North Korea, Mongolia, Rhodesia, and the Republic of Viet- Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the sole agency for the import of wheat, rye, barley, oats, and products of these grains for human consumption. There is a state monopoly also for imports of alcoholic beverages. Exchange is granted without delay for all per- mitted imports on presentation of an application form, the import license if required, and the orig- inal commercial invoice, provided that the goods are already in the country or there is sufficient evidence to guarantee their importation. Payment for imports must be made w i th in six months after the arrival of goods in the country. For imports on credit of over six months, the credit must be authorized by the Bank of Finland. Such credit is approved provided that it is considered normal in the traditions of the trade. Payments for invisibles With the exception of premiums payable to foreign life insurance companies, payments and transfers in respect of current invisibles to Fund member countries are not restricted. The author- ized banks have general permission to effect pay- ments for most current invisibles, subject in some cases to a maximum allowance or other condi- tions; for amounts in excess of the standard allowances and for other transactions exchange licenses are granted freely by the Bank of Fin- land, provided that no capital outflow appears to be involved. All contracts involving payments to nonresidents for which general permission has not been granted must be submitted to the Bank of Finland for approval. A Finnish resident going abroad (except for border travel) may purchase from commercial banks foreign exchange equivalent to Fmk 3,000 a trip, irrespective of his destination. Nonresident travelers may take out Fmk 3,000 a trip in Fin- nish notes and coins and any amount in foreign notes and coins declared upon entry. Resident travelers may take out foreign or domestic cur- rency, or any combination of these, up to the amount of their travel allowance; travelers to neighboring countries making frequent trips to destinations not located beyond any municipality adjoining Finland's land boundary may take out Fmk 200 a person a trip in Finnish notes and coins. For all types of travel, bona fide applica- tions for additional amounts of foreign exchange are approved by the Bank of Finland. FINLAND Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Expon licenses are required only for exports of metal scrap. Exports of other goods require only an export control declaration, which is approved automatically by the Licensing Office except in a few specified cases. Certain exports to countries not in the multilateral area are restricted. Foreign exchange acquired through commodity exports must be surrendered to the Bank of Finland or an authorized exchange dealer. However, export- ers are permitted to keep a part of their export proceeds in foreign exchange accounts with Fin- nish banks or with banks abroad. The accounts may be used by the exporter to pay for incidental expenses related to exports and for authorized imports of raw materials, equipment, and machinery. The Bank of Finland may at any time claim the accounts against payment at the official rate. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of freight earnings, foreign exchange receipts derived from current invisibles do not have to be surrendered. The authorized exchange dealers and shipping firms are allowed to ma in ta in their own working balances in foreign exchange, under the supervision of the Bank of Finland. The import of Finnish and foreign means of payment is unrestricted. Capital Most outward transfers of nonresident capital are subject to approval by the Bank of Finland. Inheritances are in most cases transferable with- out l im i ta t ion and, subject to certain conditions, are generally transferred automatically up to Fmk 100,000 for each beneficiary. Nonresidents who have resided outside Finland for the last cal- endar year and continue to do so are permitted to repatriate their blocked funds within three years (1) by annual installments of Fmk 12,500 for amounts not exceeding Fmk 50,000, or (2) by four equal annual installments for amounts exceeding Fmk 50,000. To the annual install- ments may be added interest accrued on the account calculated in conformity with the ordi- nary rate of bank interest paid on deposits. Moreover, persons who have resided abroad since 165 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FINLAND September 1, 1939 and foreign corporate bodies that have ma in ta ined an account with a Finnish monetary institution since that date are permitted to repatriate their balances freely. Nonresidents whose funds in Finland during the last three years have been invested in domestic securities quoted on the stock exchange or in direct invest- ments may have these funds transferred abroad, provided that the owner was a nonresident when the investment was made and that he has contin- uously resided abroad since that time. Nonresidents may purchase through an author- ized bank, against convertible or externally con- vertible currencies or by debiting a Convertible Markka Account, bonds, debentures, or shares quoted on the Helsinki stock exchange. When the securities so acquired by a nonresident are depos- ited in the custody of the authorized bank, the nonresident purchaser is permitted to sell the securities on the stock exchange through the authorized bank and to repatriate the proceeds of the sale in a convertible or an externally converti- ble currency. No permission is needed for the acquisition with funds classified as Capital Accounts of shares, bonds, and debentures quoted on the stock exchange, but proceeds from the sale of such securities may not be repatriated without the permission of the Bank of Finland. Any other transactions in, and the export of, securities involving nonresident interests require approval. If the securities were acquired with convertible foreign exchange or with markkaa from a Convertible Markka Account, approval for their export can be obtained freely. The import of securities is unrestricted. The regulations concerning foreign direct investments are as follows. All incoming capital transactions must be approved by the Bank of Finland, which considers the foreign exchange aspect. The Bank grants permission liberally, unless the investment is judged to be exception- ally detrimental to the national interest or to be of a purely financial character. Repatriation of direct investments made by means of import of capital is free. Foreign investments that involve a participation of more than 20 per cent in the capital of an enterprise require, in certain cases, the approval of the State Council. This approval, when required, is usually granted liberally. The primary reason for the 20 per cent limit is con- 166 cern for the protection of na tu ral resources, ma in ly forests. Direct foreign investments in the forest and mining industries are not normally per- m i t t ed. On demand of the Bank of Finland, residents must declare their foreign assets and the yields on the ir property owned abroad. Proceeds from the sale of securities and real property abroad must be surrendered. Ou tward transfers of capital by residents require ind iv idual approval; investment by residents in foreign securities or real estate is rarely permitted. For direct investment abroad, approval is granted on the merits of each case. Finnish emigrants are granted an exchange allowance of up to Fmk 50,000 a person, in addition to the basic tourist travel allowance. Gold Residents may freely hold, buy, and sell gold in any form at home, but residents other than the monetary authorities and industrial users are not allowed to hold, buy, or sell gold abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and indus t r ial users. Commercial imports of articles containing gold require licenses issued by the Licensing Office; for most such articles, these are granted freely. Exports of gold are subject to the same regulations as exports of other commod- ities, i.e., an export control declaration approved by the Licensing Office is usually sufficient. Changes during 1969 January 7. The Multilateral Trade and Pay- ments System of the Helsinki Club, which had been introduced on October 1, 1957, was termi- na ted. Under this system, Finland had in annual protocols committed itself to maintain the level of liberalization for imports originating in the other participating countries at, as a minimum, 80 per cent, calculated on the basis of 1954 imports, and to apply nondiscriminatory global quotas to the restricted sector of imports. January 7. The import regulations for 1969 entered into force. The amount of the global quo ta program was reduced by nearly one half ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from the level of 1968 as a result of fur ther lib- eralization of agr icu l tural products. V i r tua l ly all nonag r icu l tu ral goods except fue ls and fertilizers were henceforth unrestricted when imported from the mu l t i la te ral area. January 26. Most export taxes were reduced by 3 percentage points. The max imum rate now was 3 per cent. January 28. Finland became a member of the OECD. March 23. Restrictions on ins ta l lment credit for imported automobiles were relaxed. April 29. The export taxes introduced in Octo- ber 1967 were eliminated. July 1. All restrictions on the allocation of for- eign exchange for tourist travel were abolished. The basic allowance for tourist travel was raised from Fmk 1,000 to Fmk 3,000 a person for each trip, and all bona fide requests for add i t ional FINLAND exchange for such travel were granted. The entire t ravel allowance could be taken out in foreign cu r rency, in Finnish banknotes, or in any combi- na t ion of foreign and domestic currency. For visits across the land fron t ier extending no fu r- ther th an the border commun i t ies, no travel allowances were g ran ted, but the permitted export of F inn ish currency was increased from Fmk 100 a person a mon th to Fmk 200 a person a t r ip. The amount of Finnish currency that non- resident travelers could take out was raised to Fmk 3,000. Previously, the export of domestic currency by res ident and nonresident travelers, other than those going to border communities, was l im i ted to Fmk 100 a person a trip. October 29. Agreement was reached with Poland that dur ing 1970 all settlements would take place in convertible currency. November 13. Agreement was reached with Czechoslovakia that du r ing 1970 all settlements would take place in convertible currency. 167 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.160000 gram of fine gold per French Franc or F 5.55419 = US$1. Market rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dollars are maintained between official limits of F 5.5125 buying, and F 5.5960 selling, per US$1. Market rates for Western European cur- rencies and a few other currencies fluctuate between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by France and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Forward exchange transactions take place at freely negotiated rates, i.e., without any official intervention in the market. Authorized banks in France and in Monaco, which may also act on behalf of banks established abroad or in Operations Account countries (see section on Exchange Control Ter- ritory, below), are permitted to deal spot or for- ward in the exchange market in France. Author- ized banks may also deal with their correspond- ents in foreign markets in all currencies. However, restrictions have been imposed on the credit in francs that banks may grant to nonresidents, and each bank's exchange position and foreign cur- rency position is subject to limitation. Residents other than banks may conclude forward exchange contracts in respect of imports only for specified commodities, but forward sales of foreign cur- rency are free. There is also a market in which foreign exchange representing mainly the proceeds from the sale abroad by residents of certain French securities held abroad and of certain foreign securities may be negotiated at freely determined rates. These funds are available for the purchase abroad of French and foreign securities. The exchange rate in this market was about F 6.25 per U.S. dollar on December 31, 1969. France accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory The exchange control regulations are applica- 168 ble in all territories of the French Republic except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas, i.e., in continental France, Corsica, the Overseas Departments (Guadeloupe, Martinique, Guiana, and Réunion), and five of the six Over- seas Territories (Comoro Islands, St. Pierre and Miquelon, New Caledonia, Wallis and Futuna Islands, and French Polynesia). No exchange control is applied in relation to the Principality of Monaco or the Operations Account countries (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ) ;1 payments between France and these countries are free of restriction. All other countries are considered foreign countries for exchange control purposes; all payments between France and foreign countries are subject to exchange control. The Condominium of the New Hebrides is considered a foreign country for exchange control purposes. For imports and exports of gold, however, the Operations Account countries are also considered foreign countries.2 Certain controls that are independent of the exchange control regulations are maintained over inward and outward direct investment and over borrowing abroad; these do not apply to relations with the Operations Account countries or Monaco. Privileged treatment in respect of trade transactions is accorded to (1) the Operations Account countries and (2) Algeria, Cambodia, Guinea, Laos, Morocco, Tunisia, North Viet- 1 Countries whose institute of issue maintains an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. 2 Present French legislation no longer makes reference to the concept French Franc Area. From an exchange control point of view, this Area ceased to exist with effect from January 31, 1967. In the context of countries' over- all relations with France, however, the concept survives. In this sense the French Franc Area consists of France and the following countries: (1) the countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauritania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta); (2) the countries of the Central African Customs and Economic Union (Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, People's Republic of the Congo, and Gabon); (3) three North African countries (Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia); and (4) two other countries (Malagasy Repub- lic and Ma l i). This definition is followed, inter alia, in compiling the balance of payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nam, Republic of Viet-Nam, and the Condomi- nium of the New Hebrides.3 Administration of Control The Directorate of the Treasury of the Minis- try of Economy and Finance is the coordinating agency in the field of financial relations with for- eign countries. It is in charge of exchange control and of all matters relating to inward and outward direct investment and to borrowing abroad. The Directorate also evaluates the balance of pay- ments, together with the Bank of France, which collects the data for its compilation. Certain exchange control powers have been delegated to the Bank of France, including the authority to license imports and exports of gold. Other exchange control powers have been delegated to the Directorate-General of Customs and Indi- rect Taxes and in the Overseas Departments and Territories to the Caisse Centrale de Coopération Economique. The Directorate of Insurance of the Ministry of Economy and Finance has certain powers in respect of matters relating to insurance, reinsurance, annuities, etc. The material execu- tion of all transfers has been delegated to author- ized banks and stockbrokers and to the Postal Administration. The Directorate-General of Cus- toms and Indirect Taxes establishes import and export procedures and controls within the frame- work of commercial policy directives established by the Directorate of Foreign Economic Rela- tions; the Directorate-General also issues import and export licenses. Technical visas required for certain imports and exports are issued by the competent ministry or by the Directorate-General of Customs and Indirect Taxes. The Ministry of Industry has certain responsibilities in respect of licensing contracts and contracts relating to tech- nical assistance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with Operations Account countries may be made in French francs or the currency issued by any institute of issue that maintains an 3 These countries and territories are listed in Arti- cle 86 of an Order of January 30, 1967 of the Director- General of Customs and Indirect Taxes (as amended on February 6 and May 31, 1967). FRANCE Operations Account with the French Treasury.4 Settlements with all other countries may be made in any of the currencies of those countries, or through nonresident Foreign Accounts in Francs (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below). Nonresident Accounts A nonresident account in francs may be opened by an authorized bank for nonresidents, including French nationals (other than French officials) who have been residing abroad for at least two years. All overdrafts on nonresident- held f ranc accounts are subject to general or spe- cific permission; overdrafts corresponding to normal mail delays that are granted by authorized banks to their foreign correspondents are covered by a general permission. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be freely credited with the following: (1) The franc pro- ceeds of the sale of foreign currencies on the French exchange market by a nonresident. (2) The franc proceeds of the sale of foreign bank- notes to an authorized bank by a nonresident, provided that a customs declaration evidencing their importation is submitted; foreign banknotes are defined as excluding those issued by an insti- tute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury (see foot- note 4 ). (3) The f ranc equivalent of an author- ized bank's arbitrage in foreign currencies on a foreign market, provided that the regulations of the coun try concerned allow the transaction. (4) Transfers from another Foreign Account in Francs. ( 5) Amounts resulting from French securities held in a foreign dossier (interest, divi- dends, liquidation proceeds, etc.). (6) Interest, dividends, and amortization on foreign securities held in a foreign dossier (but not the proceeds of their sale on the French securities market.) (7) The proceeds of the liquidation by a non- resident of a direct investment, provided that 4 In addition to the institutes of issue of the Operations Account countries (see section on Exchange Control Ter- ritory, above), these are the institute of issue of the French Overseas Departments ( for Guadeloupe, Mar- tinique, Guiana, and Réunion); the Overseas Institute of Issue ( for New Caledonia, French Polynesia, and Wallis and Futuna Islands); the Caisse Centrale de Co- opération Economique (for St. Pierre and M ique lon); and the Bank of Madagascar and the Comores (for the Comoro Islands). 169 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE the l iqu ida t ion itself has taken place in accord- ance w i th the re levant provisions ( those of Decree No. 67-78 of Janua ry 27, 1967, as amended on March 21, 1969). (8) The proceeds of the sale, through the in te rmed ia ry of a no ta ry public, of real estate belonging to a nonresident. These accounts may also be credited with any authorized payment by a resident to a fore ign country. French bankno tes and bankno tes of in s t i tu tes of issue which m a in t a in an Operations Account with the French Treasury may not be credited to nonresident accounts. Foreign Accounts in Francs may be free ly debited for the fo l low ing: ( 1) The purchase by a nonresident of any foreign currency on the French exchange ma rke t. (2) The purchase by a nonres- ident of foreign banknotes from an authorized bank. ( 3) The equ iva lent in f rancs of a rb i t rage abroad in foreign currencies by an authorized bank, provided that the regulations of the coun try concerned allow the transaction. (4) Transfers to another Foreign Account in Francs. (5) Any payment to a resident. If French f rancs accruing to a nonres ident are not t rans fe rab le, or not immediately transferab le, they may be credited to a Suspense Account in Francs in the name of the benef ic iary. Imports and import Payments Goods originating in and shipped from other parts of the French Franc Area or f rom ce r ta in other countries that are accorded privileged treat- ment in respect of trade transactions (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above) are gen- erally admitted free of quan t i ta t ive restriction and ind iv idual license. Imports of goods which origi- nate in other countries and are not covered by French import liberalization require ind iv idual licenses. Some imports from EEC countries and some other imports from non-EEC countries are subject to minimum prices; these require an administrative visa and sometimes, exceptionally, an import license. For import control purposes, countries outside the French Franc Area are divided into four groups according to the extent of import liberali- zation: (1) the former OEEC countries, their dependent territories and certain former depend- ent territories, Andorra, Canada, Finland, the 170 United States, and Yugoslavia; (2) 49 specified c o u n t r i e s ;5 (3) the Eastern European countries (A lb an i a, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Po land, R um a n i a, and the U.S.S.R.) and main- land Ch ina; and (4) certain other countries not inc luded in any of the foregoing groups. Eastern Ge rmany occupies an intermediate position between categories (3) and ( 4 ). Imports from all coun tr ies of certain agricultural items and cer- ta in raw ma ter ia ls are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tions. Commodities that may be imported free of qu an t i t a t ive restrictions from one group of coun- tries inc lude all the commodities that may be free ly imported from the next group of countries plus some other specified commodities. Goods covered by the import liberalization arrangements applicable to one country may be imported freely from ano ther country, provided that the country of origin and the coun try of shipment both bene- f it f rom the liberalization. Imports of practically all industrial products f rom coun tr ies in group ( 1 ) are free of quantita- t ive restrictions, but such restrictions are applied to a number of agricultural products; there is rel- a t ive ly little difference between the lists of goods wh ich may be imported freely f rom d ifferent coun tr ies in this group, these differences relating m a i n ly to Canada, the United States, Hong Kong, and Macao. Imports of about 50 industrial prod- ucts f rom countries in group ( 2) are restricted,0 and restrictions are applied to these and to cer- ta in additional indus tr ial products from group ( 3) countries. For some commodities, there are global quo tas that are allocated semiannually and apply to all countries other than those hav ing the benefit of privileged treatment. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC (including cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable 5 A fghan is tan, Argen t ina, Australia, Bhu tan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bu rma, Ceylon, Chile, Republic of China, Colom- bia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gua tema la, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Repub- lic of Korea, Lebanon, Liberia, L ibyan A rab Republic, Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, N icaragua, Pakistan, Pan- ama, Pa raguay, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arab ia, South A f r ica, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, United Arab Republic, U ruguay, Venezuela, and Yemen. 6 For Japan, only 41 indus t r ial products are still restricted. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution import levies that have replaced all previous bar- riers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, da iry products, olive oil, most other oils and fa ts, sugar, and specified f r u i ts and vege- tables. Liberalized imports are not subject to trade control formalities other than the dom ic i l ia t ion of the import transaction, only a customs document that constitutes the customs declaration be ing required. For some liberalized imports, an admin- istrative visa issued by the central customs administration or by the competent technical m in- istry is requ ired on an import declaration. Imports of the products of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) require licenses, which are issued automatically for most of these commodities when originating in EEC countries. Other imports genera l ly requ i re ind iv idu al import licenses. These are g ran ted up to quotas determined on an ind iv idual commodity basis or for a group of commodities and app l icab le to specified coun tr ies or areas in accordance w i th trade agreements or an impo rt plan drawn up for a definite period. Moreover, licenses may be issued under the IMEX and EXIM procedures,7 which provide for the impo r ta t ion of raw mate- rials and other goods needed to produce goods for export, or under the compensation transac t ion procedure, which applies ma in ly to ag r icu l tu ral items f rom Eastern European countries. Because of the high degree of import liberalization, imports und er these schemes now are of very slight importance. Import transac t ions re la t ing to fo re ign coun- tries and exceeding F 250 in va lue must be domi- ciled (reg is tered) with an authorized bank, to which the necessary import documents mu st be presented and through which all paymen ts related to the impo rt must be made. Unless advance pay- ments have been authorized, the importer can buy his foreign exchange (1) if a documentary 7 Under the IMEX procedure, licenses are issued for imports of goods needed to p roduce goods for expor t. The lag between impo r ta t ion and expo r t a t ion may not exceed s ix mon ths. Und er the EX IM p rocedu re, expo r t e rs are assured of rece iv ing im p o rt licenses for the subsequent importation of goods used in the p r o d u c t i on of t h e ir exports. The t ime lag between expo r t a t ion and im p o r t a- tion is six to n ine months. FRANCE c r e d i t8 is opened, when he subm i ts proof that the commodities will be shipped to France within e ight days, or (2) if the goods have been impor ted, upon submission of the customs decla- ra t ion, but at the earliest eight days before the import payment fa l ls due. The import payment itself can be made ( 1) if a documen tary credit has been opened, upon receipt of advice f rom the bank's fore ign correspondent bank that the ship- ping documents (showing direct shipment either to the French customs territory or to a nearby port, such as An twe rp or Ro t te rdam) have been subm i t ted to it; (2) if a d r a ft accompanied by sh ipp ing documen ts (effet documentaire, remise documentaire) is presented to the authorized b a n k, when the bank has ver if ied that the docu- men ts cover the goods concerned and that they have been shipped (to the customs terr i tory or a ne ighbo r ing p o r t ); or (3) in all other cases, if the impo r ter subm i ts the customs declaration (un less he already did so when purchas ing his fore ign c u r r e n c y ). Advance paymen ts for imports require a special au thor iza t ion from the Customs A dm i n i s t r a t i on wh ich must be submitted to the au thor ized bank before it can make the corre- spond ing paymen t. Forward cover for impo rt payments can be obtained only for the import of specified raw ma te r ia ls and specified food s tu f fs (unroasted coffee, corn, rice, etc .) and is subject to prior approval by the Customs Adm in is t ra t ion, which is empowered to request all details needed to assure itself t h at the t ransac t ion is genu ine and to ascertain whe ther the forward cover requested does not exceed the applicant firm's normal needs. Forward cover can only be taken in the currency of invoicing prescribed in the commer- cial con tract and cannot exceed a period of one month or, for some commodities, three months. Payments for invisibles The allocation of exchange for travel to foreign coun tr ies is restricted. Payments for other current invisibles to fore ign coun tr ies are controlled but not restricted. 8 Authorized banks are free to open a le t ter of credit as soon as a pro forma invoice or some other proof of a commercial contract is submitted. The credit may have a va l id i ty of three months, w i th in which the goods must be shipped, but this period can be extended for another three-month period. 171 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE If ju s t i fy ing documents are presented and cer- tain exchange control requirements are met, authorized banks are permitted to approve appli- cations for payments without any limitation for many categories of current invisibles, and up to established limits for certain other categories of current invisibles. Applications for other pay- ments for invisibles are referred to the Bank of France to prevent unauthorized capital transfers. Any resident may make remittances abroad up to the equ iva lent of F 250 a person a year without indicating their purpose; the amounts concerned are deducted, however, from the annual tourist allowance and must be recorded by an authorized bank in the remitter's foreign exchange booklet (see below). Payments which may be authorized w i thout limitation include those related to approved trade transactions; to income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties; to banking commissions, patent tees, and specified categories of taxes; to specified insurance pay- ments; to fees to medical doctors, lawyers, etc.; to alimony in accordance with court decisions; and to net salaries of foreigners employed in France, provided that the transfer takes place within three months from the date of payment. Irrespective of the exchange control regula- tions, certain transactions between persons or firms in France and abroad are subject to restric- tion; these include certain transactions relating to insurance, reinsurance, and road and river trans- port. The exchange allocation for tourist travel to foreign countries by residents (defined for this purpose as including residents of Operations Account countries) is the equivalent of F 1,000 a person a year (F 500 for children under t en ). The allocation for business travel is the equiva- lent of F 200 a person a day, subject to a maxi- mum of F 2,000 a trip, for travel to Algeria, Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iraq, Ire- land, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, the Libyan Arab Republic, Luxembourg, Malta, Morocco, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Arab Republic, the United Kingdom, and Yugoslavia. For business 172 travel to all other foreign countries it is the equivalent of F 300 a person a day, subject to a ceiling of F 3,000 a trip. Applications for exchange in excess of the basic allowances for business travel are considered on their merits by the Bank of France. Exchange allocations for tourist and business travel must be registered by authorized banks in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). If a traveler makes use of the facility allowing a resident to make payments abroad up to F 250 a year without indicating the purpose of the remittance, then the amount transferred must be recorded in the exchange booklet and is deducted from the annual allowance for tourist travel. Family remittances made by the holder must also be marked in the booklet but are not deducted from the tourist allowance. Any unutilized foreign cur- rency in excess of the equivalent of F 100 must be surrendered upon return to France. Applica- tions for travel exchange cannot be submitted earlier than one month before departure. The use of credit cards abroad is prohibited. All fares may be paid in francs in France. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out F 200 in French banknotes, or F 50 if they go abroad for less than 24 hours. These banknotes may be spent abroad. Nonresi- dent travelers may take out F 200 in French banknotes and may reconvert into foreign cur- rency any French banknotes up to F 500 obtained by conversion of foreign means of pay- ment that they declared upon entry or obtained by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; any remaining French banknotes must be deposited with the customs against issuance of a receipt. Resident travelers may freely take out the equivalent of F 100 in foreign notes and coins; or, if they are leaving on a business trip, the equivalent of F 250; upon presentation of their foreign exchange booklet, however, resident trav- elers may take out half of their travel exchange allowance in foreign notes and coins. Nonresident travelers may not, in principle, take out more than the equivalent of F 500 in foreign banknotes unless they were declared upon entry and the annotated declaration form shows that the amount to be taken out does not exceed that imported minus any amounts exchanged for francs plus any reconversions of francs into for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution cign currencies. However, nonresident travelers may also free ly take out any other means of pay- ment established in their name abroad, as well as, subject to the submission of an authorized bank's declaration, any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency travelers checks acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain goods on a prohibited export list may only be exported if a special license is issued. Some other exports also require ind iv idual licen- ses; but if the total value does not exceed F 500, these exports may be permitted without any for- mality, subject to certain exceptions. Regardless of their value, exports under the IMEX or EXIM procedures, or through compensation transactions with certain countries,0 require licenses if the commodities are those for which export licenses are required. Exports to foreign countries are subject to exchange control. The repatriation 10 and, where appropriate, the surrender of proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries is required, normally within one month of the date on which the pay- ment falls due. The due date of the commercial contract cannot, except with special authoriza- tion, be more than 180 days after arrival of the goods at their destination. Such proceeds must not be received in French banknotes or bank- notes issued by an ins t i tu te of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, or by debit to a postal checking account in France. All export transactions relating to foreign countries and valued at F 1,000 n or more must be domiciled w i th an authorized b ank .12 9 Albania, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, No r th Korea, Poland, Rumania, Turkey, U.S.S.R., United Arab Repub l ic, Yugoslavia, and certain Latin American countries. 10 Repatriation may take place either by collection of foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. 11 Raised to F 5,000 on April 7, 1970. 12 On Janua ry 7, 1970, domiciliation before customs clearance was prescribed for export transactions payable later than one year af ter arr ival of the goods at the ir destination. FRANCE Certain goods purchased in France by persons not normally residing in France are considered as exports even when paid for in French francs, and are exempt f rom taxes. Holders of exporters' cards, which are issued to enterprises that export a certain percentage of the ir production, are entitled to obtain every year impo rt licenses for any commodity still subject to quota and related to their export activity, up to a value corresponding to 10 per cent of their export proceeds in foreign currencies received in the previous year. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with Monaco and the Operations Account countries may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be repatriated and, where appropri- ate, surrendered, within one month from the due date. With minor exceptions for certain types of transactions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins (except gold coins) in French francs, CFA francs, Mala- gasy francs, CFP francs, or any foreign currency; however, the exchange of banknotes issued by Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia is prohibited at the request of those countries. Capital Capital movements between France and Monaco and the Operations Account countries are free of exchange control; capital transfers between France and all other countries are sub- ject to exchange control approval. Outward trans- fers of resident-owned capital generally are restricted; capital receipts from foreign countries generally are permitted freely, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered (but see below for special controls over borrowing abroad and over inward direct inves tmen t). Capi- tal assets abroad of residents are not subject to repatriation. Residents are not normally permit- ted to purchase real estate abroad for personal use. The transfer abroad of nonresident-owned funds in France, including the sales proceeds of 173 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE capital assets, is not restricted; as an exception, although nonresident-owned foreign securities may be exported, they cannot be sold in France. French and foreign securities held in France by nonresidents can be exported, provided that they have been deposited w i th an authorized bank in a foreign dossier (dossier étranger de valeurs mobi- lières)', French securities held under a foreign dossier can be sold in France and their proceeds can be transferred abroad, but foreign securities held under a foreign dossier can only be exported. Foreign securities held in France by residents must be deposited w i th a bank or broker, as must any securities held in France by or on behalf of a nonresident (fore ign securities may only be deposited with an authorized b a n k ). The exportation for the account of residents of French securities held in France is proh ib i ted. French or foreign securities held abroad by resi- den ts prior to November 25, 1968, and fore ign securities so held in France prior to the same date, provided in all cases that they are held under the control of an authorized bank, can be dealt with in one of the fo l low ing ways: ( 1) if they were held abroad prior to the da te men- tioned, they may be kept abroad, under the con- trol of an authorized bank; (2) they may be sold abroad, in which case the sales proceeds mus t, w i th in a mon th of receipt, e i ther be sold on the French exchange ma rket or be used —either by the seller himself or, through the in termed iary of an authorized bank, by ano ther resident —to pur- chase French or foreign securities abroad (wh ich may then be impor ted); and ( 3) if they were held abroad, they may be imported through the intermediary of an authorized bank. Purchases of French or foreign securities abroad by residents cannot be financed w i th for- eign currency acquired on the French exchange market but are freely permitted under the follow- ing arrangement. The foreign currency received by a resident from the sale abroad of ( 1 ) French or foreign securities held abroad under the con- trol of an authorized bank prior to November 25, 1968, or (2) foreign securities held in France prior to that date, as well as any foreign exchange held by a resident with a French bank on November 25, 1968 (provided that it was not subject to su r rende r ), may be sold freely to other 174 residents for the purchase of French or foreign securities abroad. The fore ign exchange involved is unoff ic ia l ly referred to as devises-titres (secu- r i ty c u r r e n c y ). Purchases may be made freely, and the French or foreign securities thus acquired may be imported, but foreign securities must be placed und er the control of an authorized bank. The fore ign exchange resulting f rom amortization of fore ign securities is available for the same pur- pose as that resulting f rom the sale abroad of French or foreign securities. French securities held abroad by nonresidents cannot norma l ly be sold on the French stock ma rket except under these arrangemen ts; however, if such securities are not quoted on any foreign stock exchange, they may be deposited in a nonres ident dossier, subject to prior approval by the Bank of France, and may then be sold f ree ly aga inst French francs. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ iremen ts that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over capital issues on the French market, and on inward and ou tward direct investment, but these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- m en ts or receipts. With the exception of the con- trols over capital issues in France, the control measures do not apply to relations with countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Foreign direct investments in France and French direct investments abroad require prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance. Direct investments are defined as invest- men ts imp ly ing control of a company or enter- prise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent of the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on the stock exchange. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submit- ted to h im. Unless the amount involved is less than F 1 million, documentary evidence must be submitted to the Directorate of the Treasury before the liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investments in France may be transferred abroad and the liquidation itself must be reported to the Minister w i th in 20 days after it takes place. The l iqu ida t ion of French investments abroad requires prior declaration, and postponement may be ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution requested by the M in is ter dur ing two mon ths after the declaration. French direct investment abroad must norma l ly be financed abroad, and fore ign d irect inves tment in France must genera l ly be financed in p a rt w i th an inflow of fore ign exchange. Foreign issues on the French cap i tal m a rk et rema in subject to prior authorization by the M in- ister of Economy and Finance.13 Exempt f rom authorization, however, are opera t ions in connec- tion w i th ( 1 ) loans backed by a gua ran tee f rom the French Gove rnmen t, and ( 2) shares s im i lar to securities that already are o f f ic ia l ly quoted on a stock exchange in France. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id i c al per- sons, whe ther public or p r iva te persons, whose normal residence or registered off ice is in France, or by branches or subs id iar ies in France of j u r i d i- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the M in i s ter of Economy and Finance. The fo l low ing are, how- ever, exempt f rom this au tho r i z a t ion: ( 1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, wh ich are sub ject to prior dec la ra t ion, as ind ica ted above, and whose pos tponement may be requested by the M in is ter up to two mon ths a f t er receipt of the dec lara t ion; (2) borrow ing by indu s t r i al f i rms for the execu t ion of wo rks ab road; ( 3) borrow- ing by any type of firm to finance impor ts or exports; (4) loans related to ce r ta in i n t e r n a t i o n al me rchan t ing t ransac t ions; ( 5) loans contracted by banks expressly pe rm i t ted to borrow abroad (these i n c l u de a ll au tho r ized b a n k s ); and (6) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total am o u nt ou t s t and ing of these loans does not exceed F 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower, provided that the in terest ra te is a "normal" market rate, that the bo r row ing is not for the purpose of a direct inve s tmen t, and that the for- eign exchange proceeds are surrendered. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control au tho r iza t ion and is restricted. Nonresi- dents are not pe rm i t ted to borrow in France to acquire real estate. W i th m inor exceptions, all overdraf ts on Foreign Accounts in Francs and all advances to non res iden ts requ i re p r ior app rova l. 13 Since 1916, all fo re ign c a p i t al issues in France have requ i red approval. FRANCE The Bank of France has imposed limits on the fore ign exchange p o s i t i o n s14 and foreign cur- rency positions 13 of the authorized banks and on th e ir c la ims in f rancs on foreign countries. B a n ks a re p roh ib i ted f r om m ak ing, ex t end ing, or renew ing the fo l low ing loans in French f ranc s: loans to fo re ign b ank ing correspondents to f inance t ran sac t ions be tween foreign countries, loans to o ther non res ident customers for opera- tions not l inked to French exports, and loans to fo re ign co r responden ts or customers in the fo rm of swaps aga inst foreign currencies. Nonresidents are f r ee to subsc r ibe to French shor t- term securi- ties. Gold Res iden ts are f ree to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any fo rm in France. They may con t inue to hold abroad any gold they held there p r ior to November 25, 1968. There is a f r ee gold m a r k et for bars and coins in Paris, to wh ich resi- den ts have f ree and anonymous access. Impo r ts and exports of gold in to or f rom the te r r i to ry of con t in en t al France requ ire prior authorization by the Bank of France, which is not no rma l ly g ran ted. Exempt f rom th is requ i rement a re ( 1) impo r ts and exports of gold addressed to or sh ipped by the Bank of France; (2) imports and expo r ts of m a n u f a c t u r ed articles con ta in ing only a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold, such as gold-filled and go ld-p la ted a r t ic les; (3) impor ts and exports of gold objects (o ther than coins and bars, but in c lud ing bo th personal and other jewe l ry) whose comb ined we ight does not exceed 500 grams; and (4) collectors' items of gold and gold antiques that are exported under "02 licenses" granted w i th the app roval of the Directorate of Museums. Bo th licensed and exempt imports of gold are sub ject to cus toms declaration. The import and export of ce r ta in gold objects that are considered me rchand i se, such as gold watches, is subject to both the regu lar import and export licensing a r rangemen ts and to l icens ing by the Bank of France. In domestic t rad ing, purchases of mone ta ry gold (ba rs and co ins) are not subject to value- 14 Total of each b ank 's own spot and fo rwa rd positions in fo re ign cu r rency vis- à-vis residents and nonresidents comb in ed, e x c l u d i ng positions of customers. ' " S p ot assets and l i a b i l i t i es v is- à-v is non re s iden ts on ly. 175 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE added tax. Imports of monetary gold are exempt from customs duty and value-added tax. that had been made subject to it on June 30, 1968. Changes during 1969 January 1. The exchange allocations for for- eign tourist and business travel during 1969 went into force. The tourist allocation was the equiva- lent of F 1,000 a person, and the basic allowance for business travel was the equivalent of F 200 a day for travel to specified European and Mediter- ranean countries and F 300 a day for all other foreign countries. All travel exchange had to be recorded in a foreign exchange booklet. Residents were no longer permitted to make any number of remittances up to F 250 to foreign countries freely and w i thout indicating the purpose; this facility was limited to F 250 a person a year and the amounts so transferred were deducted f rom the tourist travel allowance. January 1. Resident border workers were re- quired to repatriate and surrender 60 per cent of their earnings; if their monthly remuneration exceeded F 2,000, the amount exempt from repa- triation was limited to F 800 a month. January 1. The preferential rediscount rate for export credits was raised from 2 per cent to 3 per cent. January 1. The temporary import restrictions introduced by Notices to Importers of June 30 and July 7, 1968, as amended by subsequent Notices, were revoked. Those imposed by Decree No. 68-600 of Ju ly 7, 1968, relating to iron and steel products, also were revoked. January 1. The facilities of the "economic risk" insurance procedure under which exporters can cover themselves against abnormal increases in their costs were reduced to the ir pre-June 1968 levels. January 1. The customs clearance charge of 1 per cent on imports and exports was abolished. January 17. Authorized banks were informed that residents of Operations Account countries were entitled to take up in France the tourist travel allocation of F 1,000 a person for the year 1969. January 17. The technical visa requirement was abolished for imports of those commodities 176 January 19. Certain commodities were added to the list of imports eligible for forward cover and, for some items on the list, contracts could be concluded for three months instead of one month, as previously. January 20. The banks' net foreign currency position vis- à-vis nonresidents was brought under control. Banks for which this position was nega- tive on Janua ry 31, 1969 had to maintain hence- forth a negative position of at least the same amount, and those whose position on that date was positive could only maintain a negative or balanced position. Banks having excessive posi- tions had to make renewable one-month deposits in U.S. dollars at the Bank of France. Those having a positive position on January 31, 1969 would have three months to bring it back to the permissible level. January 20. Special regulations were issued concerning cruise travel by ship or airplane. The individual traveler's tourist allowance in foreign currency would be reduced by: (a) all local expenses in foreign countries for their stay and excursions; and (b) if the cruise was organized by a foreign shipping company, by 20 per cent of the cruise fare. January 23. Imports of flax and raw cotton became eligible for forward cover. January 31. The temporary export subsidy that had been granted since June 30, 1968 on exports to foreign countries of most goods other than agricultural commodities and fuel was abolished. February 12. Under the terms of the 1968 trade protocol, France agreed to eliminate quanti- tative restrictions on a number of additional goods of Japanese origin, with effect from April 1. February 20. Transfers of freight owed to for- eign river and canal shippers operating in France were in principle limited to 70 per cent of the freight. February 27. Special nonresident accounts were introduced for expenditures and receipts in France of foreign ships and of French ships abroad (Comptes d'escale). The regulations were amended on June 3. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution February 27. The authorized banks were empowered to permit the t ran s fer of f am i ly remittances up to F 400 per applicant per mon th. The transfers had to be noted in the applicant's foreign exchange booklet. Amoun ts in excess of F 400 could only be granted by the Bank of France. Previously, the approval au tho r i ty was not delegated. March 9. Imports of certain textiles, certain footwear, certain cutlery, and ce r ta in optical goods from 49 specified coun t r ies (see foo tno te 5) were liberalized. March 13. A circular was issued concerning transactions by residents and nonresidents on commodity ma rke ts in France. A new type of nonresident account, the "Commodity Fu tu res Account" (Compte terme marchandises), was introduced for this purpose. March 27. Decree No. 69-264 of March 21, 1969 modified Decree No. 67-78 of J anu a ry 27, 1967, and an order modified the implementing regulations issued in connection w i th the la t ter decree. Two circulars, also of March 21, 1969, were published which summarized ( 1) the principal changes introduced since November 1968 in the regulations governing direct investments, as a result of both the reimposition of exchange con- trol and the amendments to Decree No. 67-78 and its implementing order; and (2) the regula- tions, whether of an exchange control character or not, that were currently applicable or would henceforth be applicable to borrowing by resi- dents from nonresidents and to the corresponding repayments. The requirements and procedures for foreign direct investment in France remained unchanged. The principal changes resulting from these various texts were the following: (1) The scope of the exemptions from prior approval for borrowing abroad was reduced. Henceforth, the only exemptions were for bor- rowing constituting a direct investment ,10 borrow- ing by authorized banks, borrowing by any type of firm for the financing of imports into or 16 However, such borrowing is subject to the regula- tions on direct investments and prior dec lara t ion mus t, therefore, be made to the M in i s t ry of Economy and Finance (Directorate of the T rea su ry ). FRANCE exports f rom France, borrowing by industrial firms for the execution of works abroad, loans related to certain international merchanting trans- actions, and loans not exceeding F 2 million when the total amount outstanding of these loans did not exceed F 2 million for any one borrower (prov ided, moreover, that the latter were obtained at a "normal" interest rate and that the proceeds were sold on the exchange m a rk e t ). All loans still had to be received th rough an authorized bank, unless the Treasury perm i t ted otherwise. All re- paymen ts had to be made through an authorized bank and notified ex post to the Treasury (pre- viously, such notification ex post was required only for tak ing up and amortizing loans up to F 2 m i l l i o n ). The exemption for borrowing by banks hencefor th was restricted to banks expressly authorized to borrow abroad; all authorized banks were so designated. ( 2) The liquidation of French investments abroad became subject to prior declaration to the Minister of Economy and Finance, who during the next two mon ths could request its postpone- men t; previously, it only had to be reported w i th in 20 days after the fact. (3) The transfer abroad of the liquidation proceeds of nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled direct investments in France had to be supported by documentary evidence, which must be submitted to the Treasury before the outward t ran s fer could be made. ( 4) The declaration of a direct investment to be unde r taken in France or abroad had to indi- cate the authorized bank through which all related payments would be made; in the case of inwa rd investments, the banks were obliged to surrender the foreign exchange immediately by selling it on the exchange market or by debiting a Foreign Account in Francs. April 11. Resident travelers returning from abroad had to surrender all foreign means of payment in excess of F 100. They were no longer entitled to take up as part of their travel alloca- tion the amounts in foreign banknotes that they had surrendered unutilized upon return from pre- vious trips abroad. April 18. For wheat and barley exported to member countries of the EEC, the maximum 177 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE duration of the contract, and therefore the due date permitted, was reduced from 180 to 60 days. On July 18, this was also made applicable to contracts concluded before April 18. On August 5, the 60-day period for soft wheat was changed to the date of arrival at destination, and somewhat similar measures were taken for malt and wheat flour. All of these measures were revoked on August 16. April 18. Imports of certain textiles, certain toys, sewing machines, and certain optical equip- ment of Hong Kong origin were liberalized. April 21. Resident border workers were required to repatriate and surrender 50 per cent (previously 60 per cent) of their earnings. The amount not subject to surrender could not exceed F 900 per month; previously, for those whose monthly remuneration exceeded F 2,000, the exemption was F 800. May 6. French insurance and reinsurance com- panies could ma in ta in foreign currency accounts abroad; previously, they could open such accounts only with authorized banks in France. May 9. The preferential rediscount rate for short-term export credits was raised from 3 per cent to 4 per cent. That for medium-term export credits remained at 3 per cent. May 20. A law went into effect which pro- vided that maritime transport "of national inter- est" must be effected by shipowners of French nationality. May 24. Imports of many additional industrial products from Eastern Germany were liberalized. June 9. Regulations went into effect which cre- ated Suspense Accounts for nontransferable francs accruing to nonresidents (Comptes d'attente) and suspense dossiers for nonresident- owned securities that were not eligible for a for- eign dossier. June 13. The preferential discount rate for short-term export credits was raised from 4 per cent to 5 per cent. June 17. By virtue of a circular of June 13, authorized banks were permitted, without await- ing the response of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to sell foreign currency or credit Foreign 178 Accounts in Francs for the liquidation proceeds of foreign direct investments in France when their amount was less than F 1 million. July 1. Export transactions under which the final payment would be due more than a year a f ter arrival of the goods at destination were required to be domiciled with an authorized bank before ra ther than after exportation. July 7. The purchase of forward exchange in respect of transit trade could not normally take place more than 90 days prior to the delivery date for the foreign currency sold forward at the same time (previously no l im i t a t ion ). As before, the proceeds from trans it sales to foreign countries normally had to be received within 180 days after the arr ival of the goods at their destination. July 7. The validity of existing licenses for imports from non-ECSC countries of many iron and steel products was suspended. These com- modities were struck from the liberalization list and became subject to global quotas. August 10. The par value was changed from F 4.93706 per US$1 to F 5.55419 per US$1. August 77. A market was created in France in which residents (including authorized banks and brokers when acting for their own account) could freely negotiate (1) the foreign currency pro- ceeds of the sale abroad of French securities held abroad or of foreign securities held in France or abroad under the control of an authorized bank or broker, and (2) those foreign currency hold- ings of nonbank residents with banks in France on November 25, 1968 that were exempt from surrender.17 Security currency acquired in this market, if not used within a period of one month for the purchase of French or foreign securities abroad, had to be surrendered at the official rate on the French exchange market. Previously, the only facilities for dealing in for- eign securities by residents were those of the par contre system. This permitted dealing in foreign securities between residents on a French stock exchange against payment in francs and also allowed a resident to sell French or foreign secur- 17 These exempt funds could previously be used only for sale on the official exchange market or for permitted payments abroad. The latter did not inc lude payments for the purchase of foreign securities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ¡ties abroad for foreign currency (provided that they had been held abroad under the control of an authorized bank prior to November 25, 1968) and use the proceeds himself to purchase other French or foreign securities abroad; these foreign currency proceeds were not negotiable between residents. Prior to August 11, the direct negotia- tion between residents of either French or foreign securities held abroad was prohibited if they were held under the control of an authorized bank. August 12. EEC Regulation No. 1586-69 of August 11 temporarily permitted France (a) to reduce its intervention prices and purchase prices for agricultural products on the in ternal ma rket by 11.11 per cent (or less, at the option of the French au thor i t ies); and (b) to subject imports and exports of agr icu l tural commodities, both in trade w i th EEC countries and th i rd coun tr ies, to subsidies and charges. August 12. The preferen t ial discount rate for short-term export credits was raised from 5 per cent to 7 per cent, and that for med ium- term credits f rom 3 per cent to 4 per cent. August 21. Most of the 1969 import liberaliza- tion measures became effec t ive also in the French Overseas Departments. August 23. Retroactive to August 11, the pref- erential specific import duties on Algerian and Tun is ian wine were increased to reflect the deval- uation of the franc. September 1. Imports of supplies for French export industries could un t il the end of the year be imported free of import du ty and value-added tax. The privilege was limited to products corre- sponding to 10 per cent of the va lue of the export commodity involved. September 9. Decree No. 69-831 of Septem- ber 8 provided that the export charges (montants compensatoires) and import subsidies (verse- ments compensatoires resulting in prélèvements réduits and éléments mobiles réduits) on agricul- tural products would be announced in the Official Gazette and become effective on the date of pub- lication. September 11. A Notice to Importers and Exporters provided that the import subsidies and export charges on agricultural products would be FRANCE applicable in trade with all countries, and would be payable at the t ime of importation or exporta- tion. For each product, the amount of the import subsidy was equal to that of the export charge. These amoun ts were specified in the Notice, which applied (w i th cer ta in exceptions for some da i ry products, for oil seeds, and for olive oil) to all sectors covered by the EEC's common agri- cu l tu ral policy or by EEC regulations of equ iva- lent effect. September 25. Law No. 69-872 required all physical and ju r id ical persons who had between May 31, 1968 and November 23, 1968 under- taken financial transactions w i th foreign coun- tries, and who du r ing that period had had the bene f it of credits guaranteed by the State or of specified other advantages, to show that these credits, etc., had been used in accordance with the purpose for which they had been granted. October 2. A number of tariff quotas were reduced. The commodities affected included cer- ta in silk and cotton piece goods from all sources and various textiles of Turkish origin. October 15. The discount rate for short-term export credits was raised from 7 per cent to 8 per cent, i.e., to the level of the general discount rate; that for export credits with maturities in excess of 18 mon ths rema ined unchanged at 4 per cent.18 October 15. A circular concerning the direct or indirect granting of guarantees to foreign coun- tries prescribed prior declaration for guarantees given by nonresidents to their branches or affili- ates in France, or by residents to their branches or aff i l ia tes abroad; in either case, guarantees for less th an F 2 million generally were exempt. October 18. Decree No. 69-969 and an order of the same date revoked the provisions with respect to the origin of overseas products and the direct transportation between the country of origin and France that were contained in Decree No. 56-650 of June 28, 1956 and its implement- ing order of October 30, 1958. October 22. Each of the EEC countries signed a one-year cotton trade agreement with Japan, 18 The la t ter rate was on Feb rua ry 20, 1970 raised to 8 per cent for exports to EEC coun tr ies only. 179 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FRANCE effective from October 1. The EEC countries would eliminate their unilateral quota restrictions on Japanese cotton textiles, while Japan would subject exports of these goods to voluntary con- trols. The target for exports to France was set at 2,650 tons. November 26. It was announced that the tour- ist travel allowance for 1970 would be the same as that for 1969 and that it could be taken up with effect from December 8, 1969. November 27. The Bank of F r a n ce i s s u ed additional instructions to authorized banks con- cerning the direct or indirect granting of guaran- tees to foreign countries. November 27. Exports of nickel and certain products containing nickel were restricted. November 28. The tariff preferences accorded to Morocco and Tunisia were revised in view of the association of these countries with the EEC. December 6. The scope of the technical visa requirements for liberalized imports was reduced. A consolidated list, subdivided by geographic lib- eralization areas, was issued of the liberalized commodities that remained subject to technical visa. December 17. It was announced that payment for exports to Andorra, being exports to a coun- try outside the French Franc Area, could with effect from January 1, 1970 be received only in foreign currency or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs. the premiums relating to their transactions in France (including its overseas territories). December 23. The amount of foreign bank- notes that residents leaving on a business trip could take out was raised from F 100 to F 250. December 23. The special definition of "resi- dents" for the purpose of allocating travel exchange was abolished. The validity of foreign exchange booklets ceased to be limited to the year of issue. December 23. In addition to the amounts of foreign banknotes and foreign currency travelers checks made out abroad that nonresident travel- ers could previously take out of France, they could take out any amount in foreign banknotes or foreign currency travelers checks or other means of payment established in their name that they had acquired in France from an authorized bank by conversion of foreign exchange, by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs, or by debit to a foreign currency account. December 24. Law No. 69-1161 revised the rates of value-added tax with effect from Janu- ary 1, 1970 to 7.5, 17.6, 23, and 33Va per cent. December 31. Additional imports from CMEA countries were liberalized. A new negative list was issued of liberalized imports from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, Czechoslovakia, and the U.S.S.R. Some items on the list were not liberalized when of mainland Chinese origin. December 20. Law No. 69-1139 revoked with effect from January 1, 1970 the obligation for French and foreign insurance companies to trans- fer to the Caisse Centrale de Réassurance part of December 31. It was announced that after March 31, 1970 receipts from exports to foreign countries would have to be recorded on a "sur- render notice" (attestation de rapatriement). 180 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON Exchange System No par value for the currency of Gabon has been established with the Fund. The un it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French Franc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Gabonese agency of the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and commercial banks in Gabon take place at the fixed rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. With the exception of those relating to gold, Gabon's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1 ) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) the other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Ivory Coast, the Malagasy Republic, Mali, Maur- itania, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Gabon itself are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only w i th foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control The Office of Foreign Financial Relations in the Ministry of Finance and the Budget super- vises borrowing and lending abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Gabon, and inward and outward direct investment. Exchange control is administered by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, who has delegated his approval authority for current payments to the 1 The CFA franc circulating in Gabon is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique Equatoriale et du Cameroun (BCEAEC) and is legal tender also in Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, and the People's Republic of the Congo. authorized banks and that with respect to the external position of the banks to the BCEAEC. All payments and receipts between Gabon and foreign countries th at are made through banks are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the BCEAEC, through the in termed iary of the institu- tion executing the t ran s fe r; the BCEAEC also addresses inquiries to the principal firms and agencies concerning inward and outward payments made in other manners, particularly by the off- setting of claims and debts. All exchange trans- actions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized intermediaries, i.e., the Postal Administration and authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Office in the M in is try of National Economy, Trade, and Mines. Prescription of Currency Gabon is an Operations Account country 01 the French Franc Area, since the BCEAEC maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other insti- tute of issue that maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from member countries of the EEC other than France may be made freely. All 181 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON imports f rom non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to licensing in accordance w i th an annual import program. This program and the amount of foreign exchange required to implement it are determined by a jo int French-Gabonese Committee. A special lidensing procedure is applicable to the impo rt of petroleum products. Exporters may obtain licen- ses for certain imports outside the import pro- gram (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, be low ). Global quotas are established for imports f rom all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The global quotas may be used to import goods originating in any of these countries. A few commodities in the program are subject to ceil- ings for all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. All import transactions relating to fore ign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses entitle importers to pur- chase the necessary exchange, provided that the shipping documents are submitted to the author- ized bank. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. For many types of payment the approval au thor i ty has been delegated to authorized banks. Pay- ments for invisibles related to trade are perm i t ted freely when the basic trade transac t ion has been approved or does not requ ire au thor- ization. Transfers of income accru ing to non- residents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. For tour ist trave l, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a person a year (CFAF 50,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining after re tu rn to Gabon must be sur- rendered. For business travel to foreign countries, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of 182 CFAF 300,000 a tr ip; the Minister of Finance and the Budget may issue exceptional allocations in excess of CFAF 300,000. Tourist and business travel allocations may not be combined. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a m ax imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAEC bank- notes; the amount taken out is deducted from the travel allocation. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAEC banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on entry. Gabonese nationals traveling abroad must lodge a deposit (repatriation guar- antee) with the Treasury; exempt are persons traveling on official business, government-spon- sored students, and persons tak ing up salaried professional employment abroad. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Exports to other countriec of rice, corn, tobacco, cotton, diamonds, and mining products (except sodium carbonate, manganese, and crude petroleum) require licenses. Gold and u r an ium may be exported only to France. Exporters may obtain import licenses for addi- tional quan t i t ies of commodities included in the import program and essential to their export activities, up to an amount corresponding to 10 per cent of the total value of their exports during the preceding year. Export transactions relating to foreign coun- tries mu st be domiciled with an authorized bank. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or an Operations Account coun- try must be surrendered. Export proceeds nor- mally must be received w i th in 180 days after the arrival of the commodities at their destination. The proceeds must be collected, and surrendered if received in a foreign currency, within one mon th of the due date. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution must be collected, and if received in foreign cur- rency surrendered, w i th in a month of the due date. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAEC, the Bank of France, or any other bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- tions Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Gabon and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are f ree of exchange control; capital transfers to all other coun t r ies requ ire exchange control approval and are restric- ted, but capital receipts f rom such coun t r ies are permitted freely. All foreign securities, foreign cu r rency, and t i t les embody ing c la ims on fo re ign countries or nonresidents that are held in Gabon by residents or nonresidents must be deposited with authorized banks in Gabon. Special controls ( add i t ion al to any exchange control r equ i r em en ts that may be app l icab le) are m a i n t a i n ed over bo r row ing and l end ing abroad, over inwa rd and ou tw a rd d i rect i n v e s tm e n t, and over the issuing, adve r t i s ing, or o f f e r i ng for sale of fore ign securities in Gabon; these controls relate to the t r an s a c t ions themselves, not to pay- m en ts or receipts. W i th the exception of those over the sale or in t roduc t ion of fore ign secur i t ies in Gabon, the control measures do not app ly to France and its Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Terri- tories (except the French Terr i tory of the A f a rs and the Issas), Monaco, and those other coun- tries whose bank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Direct inves tmen ts abroad 2 must be declared to the M in is t ry of Finance and the Budget, unless they take the fo rm of a cap i tal increase re su l t ing f rom re inves tment of und i s t r ibu ted prof i ts; the f u ll or pa r t ial l iqu id a t ion of such inves tmen ts also requires declaration to the M in i s t ry unless the operation involves the relinquishing of a participa- tion that had previously been approved as consti- GABON t u t i ng the mak ing of a direct inves tment abroad. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in Gabon 3 must be declared to the M in is ter, unless they take the form of a capital increase resulting from reinvest- ment of und i s t r ibu t ed prof i ts; the Minister has a period of two mon ths from receipt of the declara- tion d u r i ng wh ich he may request the postpone- m ent of the projects subm i t ted to h im. The fu ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of direct investments in Gabon must also be declared to the Minister, unless the operation involves the re l inqu ish ing of a par t ic ipa t ion th at had prev ious ly been approved as con s t i tu t ing the m ak ing of a direct investment in Gabon. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ion of direct inves tmen ts, whe ther these are Gabonese inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Gabon, mu st be reported to the M in is ter w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each operation. Direct invest- men ts are def ined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere par t ic ipa t ion is not cons idered as d irect inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign secur i t ies in Gabon requ i res p r ior authori- za t ion by the M in is ter of Finance and the Budge t. Exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, however, are opera t ions in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gu a r an t ee f rom the Gabonese Government and (2) shares s im i lar to secur i t ies whose issue, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale in Gabon has pre- viously been au thor ized. Borrowing abroad by phys ical or jur id ical per- sons, whe ther public or pr iva te persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of ju r id i- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requ i res prior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The fo l low ing are, how- ever, exempt f rom this au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans con s t i tu t ing a d i rect inves tment abroad for which p r ior approval has been obtained, as indicated above; ( 2) loans directly connected w i th the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms men t ioned above, or w i th the financing of com- 2 Inc lud ing those made th rough the in t e rm ed i a ry of foreign companies th at are d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly con- trolled by persons in Gabon and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Gabon. 3 I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in Gabon that are d i r e c t ly or ind i r e c t ly under fo re ign con trol and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies in Gabon of foreign companies. 183 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GABON mercial transactions either between Gabon and countries abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take part; (3) loans contracted by registered banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one borrower. The contracting of loans referred to under (4) that are free of authorization, and each repay- ment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, unless the total outstanding amount of all loans contracted abroad by the borrower is CFAF 5 million or less. Lending abroad by physical or juridical per- sons, whether public or private persons, whose normal residence or registered office is in Gabon, or by branches or subsidiaries in Gabon of juridi- cal persons whose registered office is abroad, requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans granted by registered banks; (2) other loans, when the total amount outstanding of these loans does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one lender. The making of loans that are free of authorization, and each repayment thereon, must be declared to the Office of Foreign Financial Relations within 20 days of the operation, except when the total outstanding amount of all loans granted abroad by the lender does not exceed CFAF 5 million. Under the Investment Code of December 4, 1961, as amended on March 23, 1967, any enterprise to be established in Gabon, whether domestic or foreign, is granted, under certain conditions, reduced du t ies and taxes on specified imports, as well as exemp t ion f rom direct taxes on specified income. The Code provides for five categories of treat- ment. Three of these apply to enterprises estab- lished in Gabon and whose activity is limited to the national territory of Gabon ( categories I A, IB, and II, according to the economic importance of the enterprise). The other types of treatment apply to enterprises established in Gabon whose market includes the territory of two or more states of the Central African Customs and Eco- nomic Union —UDEAC —(categories III and IV, 184 depending on the importance of the enterprise). Preferential treatments IA and IB are granted for a period of up to 10 years. Preferential treatment II is reserved for enterprises of prime importance to the country's economic development and involving exceptionally high investments; it pro- vides for stabilization of their fiscal charges for up to 25 years. Preferential treatment III includes special import privileges and treatment IV includes, in addition to the privileges mentioned above, the advantage of a founding agreement (convention d'établissement). Requests for approval for preferential treat- ment must be submitted to the Minister of National Economy, Trade, and Mines, who, after examining the documents, transmits them to the Investment Commission. After an opinion has been given by that Commission, the project is submitted to the Council of Ministers. Preferen- tial treatments IA, IB, and II are granted by decree issued by the Council of Ministers. Prefer- ential treatments III and IV are granted by a cer- tification of the UDEAC upon the recommenda- tion of the Council of Ministers. In addition to fiscal privileges, eligible com- panies may receive protection against foreign com- petition and may be given priority in the allocation of imports, of public credit, and of government contracts. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Gabon. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and the Budget, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and (2) imports and exports of manufactured articles containing a m inor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles). Unworked gold may be exported only to France. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1969 February 17. Decree No. 149/PR was issued to implement Ordinance No. 30/PR of June 5, 1968. It contained definitions of "foreign coun- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tries," "residents," and "nonresidents," listed the types of paymen ts that could be made f ree ly, through an authorized intermediary or the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, to foreign countries, and intro- duced new exchange allocations for travel to for- eign countries. The export by travelers to fore ign countries of BCEAEC banknotes was limited to CFAF 10,000 a person a trip, and the amount of such bankno tes taken out was deducted f rom the travel allocation. Payments of less than CFAF 12,500 could be made f ree ly for any pur- pose. All payments between Gabon and foreign countries had to be made through the Postal Administration or au thor ized banks. All amoun ts subject to repa tr ia t ion had to be collected, and if received in foreign currency surrendered to an authorized bank, w i t h in one mon th of the due date; the due date for export receipts had in principle to be w i th in 180 days af ter the a r r ival of the goods at their des t ina t ion. Nonres ident accounts in Gabon could not be credited with CFA bankno tes or French banknotes. The ap- proval au tho r i ty for paymen ts that could not be made free ly was delegated to the BCEAEC. Residents and nonresidents ho ld ing in Gabon foreign securities, foreign currency, or any t i t le representing a c la im on foreign coun tr ies had to deposit these w i th an authorized bank w i th in 15 days. Decree No. 280/PR of June 5, 1968 was revoked. The travel allocations were as follows: For tourist travel to foreign countries, residents could obtain foreign currency up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year (CFAF 50,000 for children under t e n ). For business t rave l, they could obtain a special allocation up to the equ iv- alent of CFAF 20,000 a day, subject to a max i- mum of CFAF 300,000 a t r ip; exceptional allo- cations in excess of CFAF 300,000, however, could be au thor ized by the Minister of Finance and the Budget. Tourist and business travel allo- cations could not be combined. February 17. Decree No. 150/PR subjected to control by the Minister of Finance and the Budget the claims and liabilities in francs and foreign currencies of banks and financial ins t i tu- tions established in Gabon. This control could be delegated to the BCEAEC. GABON April 23. Circular No. 1124 was issued con- cern ing paymen ts by residents for real estate acquired abroad before November 26, 1968. April 23. Circular No. 1125 was issued con- cerning the t rans fer abroad of salaries of officials stationed abroad. April 23. Circular No. 1126 was issued con- ce rn ing the t rans fer abroad of wages of foreign workers in Gabon. The fu ll net wages could be t rans fe r red w i th in three mon ths of the pay period concerned. April 23. C ircu lar No. 1127 was issued con- cerning family remittances to foreign countries. The authorized banks could approve transfers up to CFAF 40,000 a mon th for each applicant. The Minister of Finance could authorize addi- tional amounts. April 23. C ircu lar No. 1128 was issued con- cerning profit remittances abroad by nonresident traders and craftsmen. April 23. C ircu lar No. 1128 was issued con- cerning the allocation of travel exchange to resi- den ts participating in a convention or seminar abroad. In addition to the tourist allowance, such persons could be granted the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day up to a m ax imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, or the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day up to a max imum of CFAF 150,000, depend ing on the coun t ry in- volved. April 23. Circular No. 1131 was issued con- cern ing settlements effected by foreign airline companies. April 25. Circular No. 1130 was issued con- ce rn ing expenses and receipts of foreign ships in Gabon and of na t ional ships abroad. Special accounts for these purposes were introduced (Comptes d'escale}. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French f ranc, the Mala- gasy f ranc, and the Mali f r a nc remained unchanged. 185 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THE GAMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Gambian Pound or <£G 1 = US$2.40. The currency-issuing authority is the Gambian Cur- rency Board; subject to m in imum transactions, the Board is s ta tu tor i ly required to issue cur- rency against sterling at a rate of not more than £, stg. 100 15s. Od. per £G 100 and to redeem currency against sterling at a rate of not less than <£ stg. 99 5s. Od. per <£G 100. The commercial banks deal with customers for spot transactions in sterling at rates wh ich are within 1 per cent of the par value and in other currencies at rates determined by the prevailing market rate for the currency concerned in London against sterling. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Minis- try of Finance. The commercial banks may authorize sales of currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area for permitted imports from out- side the Area and, up to the amount of the basic travel allowance, for travel outside the Sterling Area. All other sales of non-Sterling Area curren- cies are subject to the authorization of the Minis- try of Finance, which is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency The Gambia is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may be made and received freely in sterling or in any other Sterling Area currency. Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area may be made and received in any non-Sterling Area cur- rency other than Rhodesian pounds. Nonresident Accounts While there is legal provision for the commer- cial banks in The Gambia to maintain designated nonresident accounts ( inc lud ing Blocked Ac- counts) for residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, in fact all accounts are maintained as resident accounts irrespective of the residential status of the account holder. Consequently, non- resident account holders may freely use their accounts for settlements within The Gambia and 186 the Sterling Area, but settlements outside the Area are subject to the same controls as apply to residents of The Gambia; there are no restrictions on credits to such accounts. imports and Import Payments The import of certain specified goods is pro- hibited from all sources, predominantly on social, hea l th, and moral grounds. The import from any coun try of rice and wheat flour is subject to spe- cific licensing in order to ensure the adequacy of such imports and their fa ir domestic pricing; the import of rice is in the hands of a consortium of import trading companies under the control of the Government and acting on its behalf. All other imports are freely permitted under an Open General License if imported from the following countries, but are subject to specific licensing if imported from other countries: (1) all countries w i th in the Sterling Area; (2) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Ne ther lands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, and the United States, together with the overseas territories of these countries; and ( 3) Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, the United Arab Republic, Uruguay, Venezuela, and Yugoslavia. Imports from Sterling Area countries may be paid for freely in Gambian pounds or in any cur- rency of the Sterling Area. Settlement for imports from outside the Sterling Area requires exchange control authorization, which is freely given with- out evidence of importation for any commodity that is covered by a valid specific import license or that does not require a specific license; pay- ment may be effected in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Sterling Area countries may be made freely. The commercial banks may author- ize payments for invisibles in currencies of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area for transactions related to external trade when such payments are ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution properly due outside the Area. They may also authorize a basic exchange allowance of the equivalent of <£ G 50 a person a calendar year for residents for travel outside the Sterling Area; of this amoun t, <£G 25 may be taken in cur- rency notes of countries outside the Sterling Area.1 The basic allowance may be accumulated up to three years. Application for permission to effect other payments for invisibles in currencies of countries outside the Sterling Area are dealt with adm in is t ra t ive ly but liberally by the Ministry of Finance. Irrespective of destination, each trav- eler leaving The Gamb ia may take out <£G 15 in Cambian currency notes. Visitors to The Gambia may also take out with them on departure any other currency notes declared by them when entering the coun try. Exports and Export Proceeds Because of needs for local consumption, the export to any destination of charcoal, firewood, and crustaceans is subject to specific licensing, as is the export of all goods to Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Yugo- slavia. The export of all other goods to any other destination is freely permitted under. Open Gen- eral License. Payment for exports to countries outside the Sterling Area mu st be received within six mon ths from the date of export in a non-Ster- ling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds or in a Sterling Area currency from the account of a nonresident of the Sterling Area, i.e., from an External Account held anywhere in the Ster- ling Area or from an account held in The Gambia. THE GAMBIA Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in currencies of coun- tries outside the Sterling Area must be offered for sale to the commercial banks. There is no restric- t ion on the impo rt of Gamb ian or other currency notes. Capital Inwa rd t rans fe rs of capital are not controlled. Ou twa rd t rans fe rs may be effected freely to coun- tr ies w i t h in the Sterling Area but are subject to control to coun tr ies outside the Area. At the time of m ak ing investments in The Gambia, nonresi- dent investors may apply for an undertaking as to the au tho r i z a t ion of applications for the subse- quent rem i t tance of profits and repatriation of cap i ta l. All other applications to transfer capital ou ts ide the Sterling Area are dealt with adminis- t ra t ive ly by the M in is try of Finance. Loans and advances by the commercial banks to nonresi- dents are subject to the authorization of the Min- is try of Finance; such authorization is normally given free ly for the purpose of providing working cap i tal to companies registered outside The Gam- bia for the ir operations in The Gamb ia. Gold The impo rt of gold coins m in ted in the United K ingdom requires licensing by the Ministry of Finance; otherwise, gold coins and bullion may be impor ted free ly. All internal dealings in gold and the export of gold requ ire the permission of the M in i s t ry of Finance. Changes during 1969 lln February 1970, the travel increased to £G 300 a person a trip. allowance was No s ign if icant changes took place during 1969. 187 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY Exchange System The par value is 0.242806 gram of fine gold per Deutsche Mark or DM 3.66 = US$1. The official limits established by the Deutsche Bun- desbank for its dealings with banks are DM 3.63 buying, and DM 3.69 selling, per US$1. For banks' transactions with their customers, these rates are considered as middle rates which can be exceeded by buying or selling margins. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these margins. Market rates for certain other currencies vary between limits which result from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar maintained by G e rm any1 and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. All other currencies are also admitted to market quotations in Germany. Premiums and discounts on forward exchange transactions are left to the interplay of market forces. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange dealings by residents or nonresidents. There is an almost total prohibition of pay- ments and transfers to Rhodesia and of trade and capital transactions involving Rhodesia. Other- wise, there are no restrictions on payments and no prescription of currency requirements. Resi- dents are not required to repatriate or surrender their foreign exchange earnings or holdings, which may be held in Germany or abroad at the choice of the holder. Accounts in deutsche mark or in any foreign currency may be held in Ger- many by any nonresident. Balances on nonresi- dent accounts may be transferred freely to any type of resident or nonresident account and used for any payment in Germany or abroad, includ- ing the purchase of any foreign currency or gold, minted or in bars; these accounts may be credited freely with any payment. Germany accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The administration of control in Germany in 1 The term "Germany" is used in this survey as an abbreviation for the Federal Republic of Germany, including Berlin (West). 188 respect of imports and exports of goods and serv- ices is operated by the Federal Ministry of Eco- nomics, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, the Federal Office for Trade and Industry (Bun- desamt f ur gewerbliche Wirtschaft), the Federal Office for Food and Forestry (Bundesamt f ur Ernahrung und Forstwirtschaft), Import and Storage Agencies (Einfuhr- und Vorratsstellen), and the Land Ministries of Economics. The Deutsche Bundesbank is primarily the authority that would be in charge of any exchange controls that might concern capital transactions. All banks in Germany are permitted to carry out foreign exchange transactions. A voluntary coordinating body within the banking system, the Central Cap- ital Market Committee, formulates recommenda- tions with regard to the timing and the terms of bond issues. Imports and import Payments Imports and transit purchases of virtually all commodities originating in Rhodesia are sus- pended. All commodities originating in countries included in country list C of the Foreign Trade Regulation 2 are subject to license. Out of a total of some 8,300 statistical items, about 7,600 may be imported free of license from all other countries (i.e., those in country lists A and B of the Foreign Trade Law).3 In addition, 285 items are liberalized when originating in European OECD countries and their associated or dependent territories. Cer- tain solid fuels are liberalized only when pur- chased and imported from other member coun- tries of the European Coal and Steel Community; imports of coal from other sources are limited to a global quota. Furthermore, licenses are issued automatically and without restriction as to quan- tity or country for some 200 items that are covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC. The remaining some 270 items covered by that Policy do not require a license when imported from countries in country lists A and B, while 2 The countries in list C are the CMEA countries, main- land China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. 3 Countries in list A are those of the former OEEC area and countries in list B comprise those neither included in list A nor in list C. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution licenses for imports of those commodities from list C countries are issued w i thout quan t i ta t ive limi- tation. When imported from non-EEC countries, however, most commodities covered by the Com- mon Agricultural Policy of the EEC are subject to variable import levies which have replaced all previous barriers to imports. Many agricultural imports, whether covered by EEC regulations or not, are subject to German Marketing Laws; about half of these items may be imported free of license from list A and list B countries. De facto liberalization is extended to many industrial and certain agr icu l tural commodities (about 4,650 items) when or ig ina t ing in and purchased in Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, Poland, or Rumania. Under these arrange- ments, import licenses are issued au toma t ica l ly upon application, provided that domestic produc- tion and prices are not affected adversely. Imports not subject to licensing require only an import declaration stamped by the Deutsche Bundesbank, which serves as documen ta t ion. For imports still subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction (with certain exceptions, such as books, maps, etc., and small parcels through the pos t ), an individual import license is required. Applications are normally invited by tender (Ausschreibung) published in the Federal Official Gazette. Import licenses may be allocated to importers either on a first-come, first-served basis, or on the basis of the total value of applications in relation to the quo tas established for specified commodities. For manufac tured goods, the period of validity of the license is usually six months, but it may be extended in certain cases (e.g., heavy machinery) to a period necessary for the production of the goods. For agricultural products the usual period is also six months; however, for seasonal imports, it may be shorter. Payments for imports are free, even if the underlying import transaction is still restricted. Commodity fu tu res may be dealt in freely. Transit trade transactions may, in principle, be carried out freely; but when they involve specified countries, they are subject to certain conditions. GERMANY Payments for invisibles V ir tua l ly all payments to Rhodesia are sus- pended. Otherwise, all payments for invisibles may be made freely without individual license. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be exported freely. The following transactions —but not the related payments —between residents and nonresidents are subject to restriction: the chartering of for- eign ships from residents of specified countries; the use of foreign boats in certain inland water- ways t ra f f ic; transactions with specified countries (wh ich do not grant reciprocal treatment) for hull and marine liability insurance and aviation insurance, except passenger accident insurance; the production of motion pictures in association with nonresidents; and certain contracts with nonresidents per ta in ing to motion-picture films.4 Exports and Export Proceeds Virtually all exports and transit sales to Rho- desia are suspended. With few exceptions, other export transactions may be carried out freely. For all goods, only an export notification, for statisti- cal purposes, is required. Certain exports —mostly strategic goods and agricultural commodities sub- ject to EEC regulations —are subject to individual licensing. The customs authorities exercise control over export declarations and also check to see whether a license is required. Foreign exchange proceeds from exports do not have to be declared or surrendered, and they may be used for all payments. Both claims that have been overdue for more than three months and prepaymen ts must be reported, for statistical purposes, when they exceed DM 10,000. Proceeds from invisibles With few exceptions, services performed for nonresidents do not require licenses. However, licenses are required for transactions related to 4 Restrictions are applied only to the acquisition from nonresidents of rights to films that are to be shown in the original German-speaking version or in a German- synchronized version, the acquisition of rights to films of any k ind originating in CMEA countries, and the acceptance of film services f rom CMEA coun t r ies. 189 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY specific sea services, and for technical assistance through the delivery to residents of list C coun- tries (see footnote 2) of constructional drawings, ma ter ia ls, and instructions for m anu f a c tu r e, inso- far as such assistance is for the production of goods whose export requires a license. There are no restrictions on the receipt of pay- ments for services rendered to nonresidents. However, receipts exceeding DM 500 on account of such services have to be reported. German and foreign notes and coins and other means of payment may be imported freely. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to Rhode- sia and capital transactions involving Rhodesia are suspended. Otherwise, residents and nonresi- dents may import or export capital freely without a license. Foreign and in terna t ional bond issues on the German capital market do not require official approval. However, a system of voluntary coordination of banks is operated by the Central Capital Market Committee. Securities of all types may be imported or exported free ly. There are no limitations on the disposal of legacies located in Germany and inherited by nonresidents, or on legacies located abroad and inher i ted by resi- dents. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any fo rm at home and abroad and may negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. There is a free gold market in F rank fu r t. Imports require a license from the Federal Office for Trade and Indus try when the gold is pur- chased in or originates in Rhodesia or a country on country list C of the Foreign Trade Regula- tion (see footnote 2). With this exception, imports and exports by residents and nonresi- dents of gold in any form are unrestricted and free of license; a customs declaration, however, is required. Imports of unworked gold and gold alloys are free of customs du ty but are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Imports of monetary gold by the Bundesbank and imports of gold coins that are legal tender, including sov- ereigns, are exempt from this tax and f rom cus- toms duty. Domestic purchases of gold (alloys 190 and coins that are not legal tender) are subject to value-added tax at a rate of 11 per cent. Com- mercial imports and exports of articles containing gold are subject to the general foreign trade regu- la t ions and in most cases are liberalized. Changes during 1969 Du r ing the year, the Bundesbank changed on many occasions the conditions on which it made swap facilities in U.S. dollars available to author- ized banks. Most of these changes involved an ad jus tment of the discount on forward dollars and/or a modification of the m in imum period of swap contracts. A f ter September 29, however, the Bundesbank did not conclude any new forward contracts in U.S. dollars with German banks. January 9. A list was published of the com- modities that did not fall under the general embargo on exports to Rhodesia. February 6. The m in imum reserve require- men ts in respect of the commercial banks' increases in liabilities to nonresidents were eased. From February 1, the banks could calculate their reserve obligation (100 per cent on new foreign f u n d s) from the over-all increase in external lia- bilities sub ject to reserve requirements, rather than from the increase in each type of liability separately. Furthermore, the banks were given the option of basing their calculation either on the increase in liabilities since November 15, 1968 or on that since January 15, 1969. February 27. The Sixteenth Ordinance Amend- ing the Foreign Trade and Payments Ordinance revoked the Fourteenth Ordinance of Novem- ber 22, 1968, by virtue of which the prior approval of the Bundesbank was required for the accept- ance of new deposits from nonresidents and for the raising of new loans and credits from nonresi- dents by German financial institutions, and under which approval was also required for the pay- ment of interest on newly opened savings accounts of nonresident individuals. The pre- November 22, 1968 text of Article 53 of the Aussenwirtschaftsverordnung was restored. The minimum reserve requirements on new foreign funds were maintained. March 15. A new export financing procedure (Forjaitierung) went into effect whereby banks could make direct purchases of government-guar- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution anteed medium-term and long-term suppliers' credit claims on developing countries from exporters. A special guarantee f u nd of DM 250 million was established for this purpose. The arrangements would be in effect un t il March 31, 1970. March 20. It was announced that add i t ional import oppor tun i t ies were to be created by quo ta increases for indus t r ial goods and volume increases under agreements on vo lun ta ry res tra int of exports to Germany. As a rule, all quo tas were increased by 33 per cent. Structural and regional problems of some branches were taken in to account, however, by l im i t ing pa r t icu lar quo ta increases to 20 per cent. The increases applied to all countries whose exports to Ge rmany were still subject to quota, but no improvement was granted to Rhodesia. In total, the measures resulted in an increase in impo rt oppo r tun i t ies of about DM 500 m i l l ion. In Ju ly, add i t ional quota increases of DM 350 m i l l ion were considered. However, due to a lack of export capacity in state t rad ing countries, it was not to be expected that these fac i l i t ies would be used up. April J. The Cen tral Capital Ma rket Commit- tee announced a vo lun tary spacing-out in 1969 of foreign bond issues in deutsche m a rk. In Ap r i l, such issues would be kept to a m i n im um; af ter April, their volume in any one mon th would rema in below the average for the first three months of the year (DM 500 m i l l ion ). April 28. The Bundesbank revoked an April 17 decision that the 100 per cent reserve requirement against new foreign f u n ds would be terminated at the end of Ap r i l. With effect from May 1, the 100 per cent m i n im um reserve ra t io on additions to Ge rman bank s' l iab i l i t ies vis-a- vis nonresidents was to be calculated on the basis of the level of such l iab i l i t ies as at Apr il 15 (on May 8, the basis became e i ther April 15 or April 30, 1969, at the option of the bank con- cerned). May 7. The Bundesbank suspended its swap transactions in U.S. dollars w i th German banks. Transactions were resumed on May 21. May 8. The Bundesbank in troduced l im i ta t ions on the amoun ts of deutsche mark that it would supply in official exchange marke ts abroad. GERMANY May 14. The Government proposed to extend the Law Concern ing Measures for Foreign Trade Safeguards (Absicherungsgesetz) 5 which was due to exp ire on March 31, 1970; the amend- ment took effect on July 3. The Government also proposed to amend Article 16 of the Bundesbank Law so as to permit the imposition of reserve requ i remen ts of up to 100 per cent on banks' total l iab i l i t ies to nonresidents. This amendment took effect on Ju ly 25. May 22. W i th effect from June 1, 1969 the Bundesbank increased the rates of the m in imum reserve ratios to be maintained by banks by 15 per cent for domestic liabilities and by 50 per cent for external liabilities. The 100 per cent reserve against new foreign f u n ds was unchanged. June 23. Under the policy of self-restraint by importers of heavy hea t ing oils, it was agreed that such impor ts in 1969 could be estimated to exceed those of 1968 by 7 per cent ra ther than 4-6 per cent as es t ima ted previously. June 25. A f t er the EEC authorities had gran ted Germany permission to raise its 1969 quo ta for imports of iron and steel products from state t rad ing countries by 65,000 tons, import app l ica t ions were invited. June 28. Imports of coke f rom all sources o ther th an Rhodesia were liberalized. July 17. W i th effect from August 1, 1969, the Bundesbank increased the rate of the m in imum reserve ratios to be ma in ta ined by banks against domestic and foreign l iab i l i t ies by about 10 per cent. August 1. New directives for the insurance companies allowed for the first time some invest- ment in shares of foreign companies. August 22. Certain tax facilities for outward d irect inves tment were introduced by the Taxa- tion Amendment Law for 1969. August 28. Banks' external liabilities from interest-arbitrage deals henceforth were exempt f rom m i n im um reserve requirements only if they were expressed in foreign currency and provided 5 This law provided for a tax of no rma l ly 4 per cent levied on exports and tax relief of no rma l ly 4 per cent on impo r ts; commodities covered by EEC ag r icu l tu ral m a rk et regu la t ions were excluded. 191 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GERMANY that the interest-arbitrage deal was not associated with any swap transaction with the Bundesbank. September 1. By virtue of a decision of the Bundesbank of August 14, the application of the 100 per cent reserve requirement on additions to liabilities to nonresidents ceased to be limited by the former proviso that for each credit institute the legal maxima for reserves against d ifferent kinds of liabilities could not be surpassed. September 25-26. The German official exchange markets were closed. The markets were also closed on September 29 and were reopened on the next day. September 29. With effect from September 30, the Government announced that in the prevailing conditions it would not ensure that rates for exchange transactions involving the deutsche mark within their territory would be confined within the limits hitherto observed. The Govern- ment also authorized the Bundesbank temporarily to cease any intervention in the spot exchange market by application of the officially established upper and lower limits for the U.S. dollar, recom- mended that the Bank apply higher reserve requirements against nonresident-owned funds (under amended Article 16 of the Bundesbank Law), and undertook to ensure that German agriculture would not be discriminated against as a result of the floating exchange rate. The Bun- desbank decided not to conclude any new for- ward contracts in U.S. dollars with German banks. September 30. A temporary levy that would vary with the floating rate of the deutsche mark was introduced on agricultural imports. The Gov- ernment applied to the EEC for permission to introduce subsidies on agricultural exports. September 30-October 26. There was a fluc- tuating exchange rate for the deutsche mark. During this period, the Bundesbank stood ready to supply U.S. dollars spot at specified selling rates equal to or slightly below market quota- tions. The spot rate for the deutsche mark against the U.S. dollar appreciated gradually, until on October 24 the middle rate spot was quoted in Frankfurt at 8 per cent over the official par value. The last free market middle rate was DM 3.70 per US$1. 192 October 1. The EEC Commission refused per- mission to apply import levies or export subsidies on agricultural commodities but allowed a tempo- rary closure of the German border for some agri- cultural products. October 8. The Commission of the EEC author- ized the German Government to impose a tem- porary import levy on those agricultural com- modities for which an intervention or buying price had been established in accordance with EEC market regulations, as well as on processed products whose price depended on the prices of these basic commodities. The permission was originally valid until the German authorities re- established an effective par value. Germany was also authorized to grant special export subsidies at the same rate and on the same range of com- modities, but only in exceptional cases for exports to third countries. The permissible import levy was initially set at 5 per cent of the interven- tion or buying price, but provision was made for subsequent adjustment by the EEC Commission if the difference between the official parity and the arithmetic mean of official spot exchange rates during any one week should be smaller than 4 per cent or larger than 6 per cent. On Octo- ber 21, an authorization to increase the import levy to 6 per cent was issued. October 8. The 4 per cent special turnover tax levied under the Law Concerning Measures for Foreign Trade Safeguards on most exports and the special bonus (import compensation) of 4 per cent or 2 per cent on most imports were sus- pended until December 1, 1969, subject to the approval of the EEC authorities; such approval was granted on October 9, and the measure took effect on October 11. October 22. An agreement between Germany and Japan was signed in which Japan undertook to restrain exports of certain cotton textiles pre- viously restricted by import quotas. October 26 (October 27, Central European Time). With effect from this date, the par value was changed from DM 4.00 = US$1 to DM 3.66 = US$1. The Bundesbank's maximum spread in the spot market for the U.S. dollar, the single intervention currency, was maintained at 3 pfennige either side of par (middle rates that can ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution be exceeded in either direction by the buy ing or selling ma rg in ). October 28. The Law Concerning Measures for Foreign Trade Safeguards was suspended sine die, with effect from October 28. October 30. The EEC Commission permitted Germany (un t il December 7, 1969) to increase the import levy on agricultural products subject to Common Market regulations f rom 6 per cent to 8Vi per cent and to pay a subsidy of 8V4 per cent on exports of agricultural products subject to the same regulations. These levies and subsidies were applied ma in ly to cereals, beef, pork, and milk and to secondary products containing more than 2l/2 per cent of the foregoing products. November 1. The law concerning sales of cer- tificates and shares issued by the foreign inves tment funds (Auslandsinvestmentgesetz of July 28, 1969) entered into force and the Law on Invest- ment Companies of April 16, 1957 was amended. Certain notification requirements were intro- duced, but foreign investment companies did not need formal authorization for their sales in Ger- many. November 6. The 100 per cent m in imum reserve ratio on additions to German banks' lia- bilities to nonresidents was abolished and the m in imum reserve ratios to be ma in ta ined by banks on existing liabilities to nonresidents were brought back in line with those against liabilities to residents. All remaining m in imum reserve ratios were lowered by 10 per cent. These meas- ures took effect retroactively from November 1. November 17. The temporary system of import levies and exports subsidies on agricultural prod- ucts was extended un t il the end of 1969. These temporary arrangements were replaced on Janu- GERMANY ary 1, 1970, with the approval of the EEC, by compensatory measures against losses to agricul- ture resulting from the revaluation. December 1. The Japanese yen was officially quoted in Frankfur t. December 4. Banks were requested to exercise restraint in lending at home and abroad and to repa tr ia te ma tu r ing foreign placements. However, in order to alleviate seasonal strains on bank l iqu id i ty, the Cen tral Bank ing Council also decided to lower by 10 per cent the reserve requirements on all liabilities subject to m in imum reserve requirements. December 5. The German issuing houses decided to work toward reduc ing over-all foreign bond offerings to under US$100 million a month. December 8. The Federal Association of German Banks requested its members to report to the Bundesbank all nonbonded loans (Schuld- scheindarlehen) of more than DM 20 million to nonresidents. December 20. Exports of nickel required a license. Five petroleum products were freed from import license. Transit imports of Japanese cotton textiles required an import license. December 20. Articles 52, 53, and 54 of the Foreign Exchange Decree (Aussenwirtschafts- verordnung) were revoked. This action abolished all restrictions on the payment of interest on non- residents' deposits (prev ious ly, only savings accounts of ind iv idual persons were exemp t) and on the sale of domestic money market paper to nonresidents (including repurchase agreements for domestic fixed-interest secur i t ies). December 22. The restriction of August 28 on certain interest-arbitrage deals (including "round- about transactions") was revoked in part. 193 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.870897 gram of fine gold per Ghanaian New Cedi or N0 1 = US$0.98. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rate for sterling, which is N(C 1 = <£0 8s. 2d. The Bank of Ghana quotes rates for the pound sterling and certain other currencies; it deals in sterling at the fixed rate plus or m inus a foreign exchange com- mission of Vi of 1 per cent. For other currencies, the commercial banks in Accra base their rates on the cu r rent London ma rket rates plus or minus the exchange charge of !/2 of 1 per cent levied on sterling transactions and a brokerage fee of Vs of 1 per cent. The authorized banks may arrange exchanges of Ghanaian currency for any foreign currency and engage in arbitrage in all currencies, spot or forward, but they do not ma in ta in foreign exchange balances, receiving their requirements from the Bank of Ghana on a day-to-day basis. Administration of Control A committee under the cha irmansh ip of the Governor of the Bank of Ghana is responsible for draw ing up an annual foreign exchange budget. This committee also prepares the mini- mum import program and a reduced "opera- tional" import program based upon the known available foreign exchange resources. The over-all import plan must correspond to the import ceil- ing set by the committee in its reduced program. If additional foreign aid not taken into account in the original foreign exchange budget is received, import licenses are issued for the gap between the m in imum program and the reduced program. The Controller of Imports and Exports at the Minis- try of Trade is empowered, on behalf of the Min- istry of Trade, to prohibit or regulate the import and export of all goods. Open general licenses, other import licenses, and other export licenses are granted by the Controller of Imports and Exports. Applications by the industrial sector and cer- tain state agencies for individual import licenses must be channeled through the appropriate minis- try or government agency for endorsement. 194 Applications that have been endorsed by the competent ministry or agency are then forwarded to the Controller of Imports and Exports at the M in is t ry of Trade. Applications by the commer- cial houses for the import of consumer and inves tment goods are submitted direct to the Min- is try of Trade. The Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana administers the allocation of exchange for payments for invisibles and capital. Permitted foreign exchange transactions must be made through authorized banks. All contracts providing for the payment of any money by the Government require the approval of the Finance Board. Prescription of Currency Ghana is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom. Settlements between residents of Ghana and residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in new cedis through Sterling Area Accounts, in sterling, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Au thor ized payments, including payments for impo r ts, by residents of Ghana to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in new cedis to the credit of a Foreign Account, in sterling to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Receipts from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in new cedis from a Foreign Account, in sterling from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. However, settlements related to transactions covered by bilateral trade and payments agreements are made through clearing accounts maintained by the Bank of Ghana and/or the central or state banks of the countries concerned.1 1 Ghana ma in ta ins such agreements w i th the following countries (the clearing accounts are denominated in Ghana ian new cedis unless otherwise no ted ): Bulgaria, ma in land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Guinea (U.S. do l lars), Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and the Un i ted Arab Republic (s te r l ing ). The agreements with ma in land China, Cuba, and Guinea are at present inoperative. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Nonresident Accounts Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries within the Sterling Area other than Ghana are designated Sterling Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th au thor ized paymen ts by residents of Ghana, with transfers f rom Foreign Accounts and from other Sterling Area Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of Sterling Area and non-Sterling Area curren- cies. They may be debited for payments to resi- dents of Sterling Area countries, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area currencies. Accounts in new cedis held by residents of countries ou ts ide the Sterling Area other t h an Rhodesia w i th authorized banks in Ghana are designated Foreign Accounts. The opening of these accounts is subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. The accounts may be credited with authorized ou twa rd paymen ts by residents of S ter l ing A rea countries, w i th transfers f rom other Foreign Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of non-S ter l ing Area currencies other than Rhodes ian pounds. They may be debited for inwa rd paymen ts to residents of the Sterling Area, for t r an s f e rs to other Foreign Accounts, and for purchases of Sterling Area and non- Sterling Area cu r renc ies o ther t h an Rhodesian pounds. Non res ident accounts ma in ta ined under the provisions of bilateral paymen ts agreements are called "Official Accounts" or "Territorial Accounts." These accounts may be credited with au thor ized ou tward paymen ts by residents of Sterling Area countries, w i th t r an s f e rs f rom For- eign Accounts, w i th paymen ts received through the Bank of Ghana for settlements with bilateral paymen ts agreement countries, and with proceeds f rom sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodes ian pounds. They may be debited for authorized inward payments to residents of Ghana, for t ran s fe rs to other Official Accounts related to the same country, and for t rans fe rs to the related clearing account at the Bank of Ghana. Blocked Accounts are nonresident accounts of another category, the purpose of which is to receive f u n ds that are not placed at the free dis- posal of nonresidents, e.g., certain types of capi- GHANA tal proceeds. These may be debited for author- ized paymen ts, inc lud ing the purchase of approved securities. imports and import Payments Impo r ts f rom Rhodesia, South Africa, South- West A f r i c a, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are not pe rm i t ted. A large part of the import t rade is carr ied out by private importers who mu st be registered and have to pay a flat registra- tion fee of NC£ 50 a year. Other imports are made by state agencies. Imports of most goods produced in Ghana, as well as certain other com- mod i t ies of a l u x u ry character, are severely re s t r ic ted; these are specified in a List of Res t r ic ted Commodities. There are ten open gen- e ral licenses w h i ch pe rm it any registered importer to impo rt f r e e ly f rom any coun t ry the commodi- ties specified in the relevant license. These com- mod i t ies in c lude most chemicals, spare parts, f e r t i l i z e r s, c e r t a in electric machinery, mineral m a n u f a c t u r e s, paper and paperboard, certain food s tu f f s, and pharmaceu t ical products. For some of these, impor ters must obtain an OGL Comm i tment form f rom the Controller of Imports and Exports be fo re placing orders; for other listed commodities, the Bank of Ghana must be i n f o rm ed at least two weeks before payment is to be made. All o ther imports require individual licenses, wh ich are issued w i th in the limits of an a n n u al impo rt program. Ind iv idual licenses are of two k ind s: specific and special unnumbe red licen- ses. All goods not covered by an open general license must be covered by a specific license, but where sa t is fac to ry evidence can be produced to the e f fect that p aym ent for such goods has been made and therefore no t rans fer of foreign exchange is invo lved, they can be imported under "special unnumbe red licenses"; these are not issued for impo r ts in commercial quantities. Impo rt licenses do not specify the country f rom wh ich the commodity has to be imported; they merely specify whe ther payment is to be made in convertible or inconvertible currency. Licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis and are endorsed to the effect that insu rance must be cov- ered in Ghana. Exchange for payment of approved imports is granted freely by the Bank of Ghana. However, 195 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA with the exception of rice, sugar, jute,2 aid imports, imports under bilateral payments agree- ments, and certain other imports for which exemption has been granted by the Ministry of Trade in consultation with the Bank of Ghana, imports must be made on 180 days' credit. Com- mercial banks usually require importers to make downpayments on the opening of letters of credit for all categories of imports. Imports of most commodities under open gen- eral license are subject to a surcharge of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value unless imported by or for the use of the Government of Ghana. Many imports are subject to a levy of 11 Vz per cent on the combined amount of c.i.f. value, import duty, and other import charges. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require specific approval of the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana, and documentary evidence must support all applications. The following categories of payments are nor- mally authorized in connection with the importa- tion of goods: ( 1) the buying commission—this must be duly endorsed on the import license and the amount of the authorized commission is deducted from the value of the import license; ( 2) the transfer of normal bank charges payable to overseas bankers for import payments, pro- vided that the amount of the bank charges and the buying commission combined do not exceed 4 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the goods; and (3) the transfer of funds to cover interest on bills up to 6 per cent per annum. Freight charges must be paid to the local shipping agents; the transfer of funds to cover such charges is normally permit- ted, provided that the applications are properly documented. With few exceptions, insurance on all imports shipped to Ghana on f.o.b. or c. & f. terms must be arranged in Ghanaian currency with local insurance companies. Remittances of income by non-Ghanaian employees are limited to 40 per cent of their annual earnings, up to a maximum of N(£ 3,000 a year, and are permitted only to persons having 2 These three commodities may be imported against sight drafts. 196 an annual disposable income of at least N(S 1,000; this personal remittance quota is intended to cover all personal and family require- ments and commitments outside Ghana, including leave expenses, travel for health purposes, educa- tion, gifts, insurance premiums, subscriptions, and donations. Applications for remittances of income by non-Ghanaian self-employed persons are con- sidered on their individual merits by the Exchange Control Department of the Bank of Ghana. Nonresident companies are, with the exception of companies financed with locally raised capital, permitted to transfer abroad freely their net prof- its, i.e., profits after payment of the prevailing 50 per cent tax on companies and of a 7Vi per cent withholding tax; at present, however, profit trans- fers are being authorized only on a limited basis. The transfer of profits by companies that are either foreign-owned or owned or controlled by nonresidents and that have been financed with locally raised capital is not permitted. The basic annual travel allowance for Ghanai- ans is N{£ 55 for each person 18 years of age or over and N0 25 for each person under that age. Foreigners resident in Ghana but domiciled else- where in the Sterling Area are allowed up to N(£ 490 a calendar year out of their personal remit- tance quota (if any ). Exchange for business travel is granted up to N(£ 37 a day, for a maximum of seven days; not more than two journeys a year are allowed. All residents may buy round-trip tickets in Ghana to the country of destination, subject to approval by the Bank of Ghana. Resi- dents of any nationality (except children under 2 years of age, diplomats, and UN personnel) who, for any purpose, are leaving Ghana by air or sea, whether temporarily or not, must pay a travel tax of 10 per cent of the price of the round-trip ticket. Persons leaving Ghana may take with them foreign currency equivalent to N0 122.50, pro- vided that not more than the equivalent of N(£ 24.50 is taken in banknotes in any one cur- rency. Ghanaian banknotes may be taken out by any traveler up to N(£ 20 but may be spent only on Ghanaian aircraft and ships. Nonresident travelers may take out any unutilized foreign currency imported and declared upon entry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exports and Exports Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and the Portuguese Monetary Area are prohibited. There are three open general licenses for exports, covering such articles as trade sam- ples, advertising materials, postage stamps, gifts up to N(£ 20 in value, and luggage. All other exports require specific licenses from the Control- ler of Imports and Exports prior to shipment. Cocoa and certain other agricultural products are exported through the Cocoa Marke t ing Board. Exporters are required to collect proceeds from their exports w i th in 60 days of shipment; export proceeds in foreign exchange must be surrendered to a commercial bank in Ghana. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank. Foreign currency notes may be imported freely, provided that their exportation is not prohibited by the issuing country. The import of Ghana ian currency notes is prohibited, with the exception of the reimportation of notes taken out previously by the same traveler and recorded in his passport. Capital Foreign investment in Ghana requires prior approval. The Capital Investments Act, which was promulgated in April 1963, provides for the granting of special benefits to specified existing investments as well as to new investments. Under the act approval may be granted to investments that contribute to the development and utilization of productive capacity, the reduction of import requirements, the attainment of a high level of employment, or the acquisition of technical skills by citizens of Ghana. However, certain retail, wholesale, and transportation operations are not open to foreigners. Investments granted "approved status" under this act obtain a guaran- tee of the right to transfer profits and liquidation proceeds; tax holidays, initial capital allowances, etc., are also available for such investments. The act also stipulates that the assets of foreign investors may not be expropriated and that, when approved enterprises are nationalized in the public interest, fair compensation is to be deter- mined either by voluntary agreement of the par- GHANA ties or through arbitration by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. A Capital Investments Board decides which foreign investments qua l i fy for benefits under the act. All outgoing capital movements must be approved; applications for such transfers must be supported by documentary evidence and are con- sidered on their merits. Transfers to beneficiaries under wills and intestacies are approved, pro- vided that all local indebtedness has been paid. Requests for the transfer of funds representing personal assets of foreign residents in Ghana who retire and re turn to their home country are con- sidered individually on their merits. Applications must be supported by appropriate documentation showing that the savings are genuine and that no illegal transfer of capital is involved. If the amounts involved are very large, their transfer may be authorized over a period of a few months. Proceeds from the liquidation of real assets of foreign nationals leaving Ghana may be directed to reinvestment in registered government bonds, treasury loans, or treasury bills; the inter- est accruing on such investments is transferable. Applications for the transfer abroad of funds by emigrants must be accompanied by appropriate documentation and are also considered on their ind iv idual merits. Loan and overdraft facilities to resident com- panies controlled by nonresidents require the ind iv idual approval of the central bank. Such companies, when financed with locally raised cap- i ta l, are not permitted to transfer profits or divi- dends abroad. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred abroad with- out express permission. In respect of portfolio investments, residents have to obtain approval for any switch in their holdings of securities issued by nonresidents. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate in Ghana gold obtained domestically by washing or mining according to indigenous methods, gold coins that are collectors' pieces, and gold jewelry. Other domestic transactions in gold, as well as imports and exports, may be authorized by the Ministry of Trade in collaboration with the Bank of 197 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GHANA Ghana, and certain domestic sales may be carried out by perm it under the Gold Mining Products Protection Ordinance. With these exceptions, no Ghana ian resident other than an authorized dealer may buy or borrow any gold f rom, or sell or lend any gold to, any person other than an authorized dealer. Imports of gold other than imports by or on behalf of the mone tary authori- ties are not normally licensed; imports for indus t r ial use are very small, a specified commer- cial bank being the sole importer. The import du ty on bullion and partly worked gold is 10 per cent, and that on other gold is 50 per cent. The gold mines export their en t ire ou tput in semi- refined form. Exports are free of du t ies or taxes; the m in ing corporations are subject to a minerals tax based ma in ly on profits. Changes during 1969 January 1. The scope of the open general license lists was extended by inclusion of cane and beet sugar, certain chemicals, a wide variety of manu fac tu red articles, some electrical and medi- cal apparatus, and textbooks. January 1. The 1 per cent license fee levied on the c. & f. value of imports was abolished. January 1. Foreign nationals whose business establishments in Ghana are financed with capital raised locally could no longer remit their profits. January 1. It was decreed that taxi service operations, small-scale businesses with under 30 employees and/or with an investment of under N(2 1,000, retail trade businesses with an annual sales volume of less th an N(Z 500,000, wholesale trade businesses with an annual sales volume of less than N0 1 m i l l ion, and the representation of overseas manufac turers would be reserved for Ghanaians. No new foreign enterprise would be licensed in the five protected fields. Non- Ghanaian business enterprises properly registered and operating in protected fields would be per- mitted to continue operation if they immediately started training programs to prepare Ghanaians to replace foreigners, refrained from employing expatriates except working proprietors, and took steps to show that they were "Ghana ian iz ing ." February 13. Agreement was reached with Yugoslavia on the termination of the payments 198 agreement with that country as from Decem- ber 31, 1969. Settlements would thereaf ter take place in convertible currencies. February 13. Commodities imported under the open general license procedure were made subject to a 5 per cent surcharge calculated on the c.i.f. va lue. Exempt were goods imported by or for the use of the Government of Ghana, certain medici- nal and pharmaceutical products, school text- books, other books and magazines, as well as the personal effects of travelers. February 20. Industrial companies were allowed to transfer profits and dividends declared for the years ended June 30, 1965; commercial companies those declared for the years ended June 30, 1963; and all other companies (except m in ing companies, for which separate arrange- ments were made) were permitted to transfer profits and dividends for the years ended June 30, 1964. February 20. Remittances of income by non- Ghanaian employees were limited to 40 per cent of their annual earnings, up to a max imum of N(£ 3,000 a year. Previously, remittances of 50 per cent of earnings were allowed, up to <£ stg. 2,500 a year. Henceforth, such remittances could not be made by persons having an annual disposable income of less than NC£ 1,000. June 27. Imports of rice, sugar, and ju te could be made on sight draft terms. Previously, sup- pliers' credit for 180 days was required. July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Ma li was terminated. July 15. Income tax deductions were proposed for export-oriented industries, except manufac- tures of wood and metal products. The deduc- tions, with a max imum of 50 per cent, would be g radua ted in accordance with the percentage of total ou tput being exported by the producer firm. The proposals were enacted on August 5. July 16. Import duties on automobiles and t rucks were reduced from 250 per cent to 100 per cent. July 22. OGL Commitment forms were no longer required for items on open general license lists 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 8. Importers of these items, however, were henceforth required to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution inform the Bank of Ghana at least two weeks before payment was to be made. August 22. Imports under special unnumbered licenses of textile fabr ics and related products were banned. September 5. The import regulations for the first ha lf of 1970 were published. For licensing purposes, the 1969 import year was extended to June 30, 1970 and it was announced that there- after the import year would run from Ju ly 1 to June 30, coinciding w i th the fiscal year. Applica- tions for import licenses for the period J anu a ry 1 to June 30, 1970 were to be filed by October 31, 1969. The special procedures for importing by the members of the Small Ghana ian Importers' Association were e l im ina ted, and such impor ters could in f u t u re import either direct or through other specified registered importers. September 15. The List of Restricted Com- modities was extended to include, inter alia, gramophone records, cigarettes, toothpaste, tran- sistor radios, cement, ballpoint pens, palm oil, GHANA ma tches in boxes, cotton thread and cotton towels, and woolen and synthetic suitings, as well as fresh or frozen fish not caught by Ghanaian vessels. Coffee was removed f rom the list. October 6. An Export Promotion Council was established. December 12. The Controller of Imports and Exports announced that w i thout his special per- mission no special unnumbe red license, open gen- eral license, or specific import license could be used to import certain specified goods; these were tex t i le ya rn, three types of textile prints, radios, radiophonographs, television sets, tape recorders, record players, and passenger automobiles with eng ine capacity exceeding 1,700 c.c. December 15. The export of banknotes to Ghana th rough postal channels was prohibited, except through registered letter packages mailed by one b ank to another bank. December 31. The bilateral payments agree- ment w i th Yugoslavia was terminated. 199 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE Exchange Rale System The par value is 0.0296224 gram of fine gold per Greek Drachma or Dr 30.00 = US$1. The official rates are Dr 29.90 buying, and Dr 30.10 selling, per US$1. Market rates for other curren- cies vary between limits which result from com- bining the official limits for the U.S. dollar main- tained by Greece and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. Administration of Control Controls are administered on the policy level by the Ministry of Coordination, the Ministry of Trade, the Currency Committee, and the Foreign Trade Board. Exchange control is implemented and applied, and import approvals are granted, by the Bank of Greece and authorized commer- cial banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Bank of Greece, authorized banks, and the Ministry of Commerce and, in some cases, require the prior approval of the competent min- istry. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Greece has bilateral payments agreements are made through controlled accounts, with the U.S. dollar as the currency of account.1 Settlements with all other countries are made in any convertible cur- rency or through Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to open with Greek banks convertible Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts in drachmas or convertible currencies. These accounts may be credited with convertible foreign exchange or the proceeds from sales of converti- ble currencies, with authorized payments by resi- dents of Greece for imports or services payable in 1 Greece maintains bilateral payments agreements with Brazil, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., United Arab Re- public, and Yugoslavia. Most settlements with Portugal are channeled through special accounts; balances on these accounts are settled monthly. There is a bilateral account for settlement with Chile of trade in specified commodities. 200 convertible currencies, and with transfers from other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts. They may be debited for payments to residents for current transactions, for transfers to other Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts, and for the purchase and transfer abroad of any convertible currency. Any withdrawal from drachma accounts for use in Greece and any conversion of foreign exchange withdrawals into drachmas entail the loss of the reconversion right of the sums withdrawn. The max imum rate of interest on such accounts is 1.50 per cent per annum. Nonresident investors enjoying the privileges of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 (see section on Capital, below) may also establish time deposits, for a m in imum period of six months and with a minimum deposit in convertible currencies equiv- alent to US$10,000; balances on these accounts earn interest of between 6 per cent and 7 per cent, and principal and interest are freely trans- ferable at maturity in the currency of the deposit. All drachma assets of nonresidents other than those in Foreign Sight Deposit Accounts must be declared and are held in blocked accounts. Domestic banknotes in excess of Dr 750 brought in by nonresident travelers must also be credited to a blocked account, as must certain income accruing in Greece to nonresidents. Subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities, bal- ances on blocked accounts may be used for such purposes as personal expenses in Greece up to Dr 30,000 a visit, purchases of securities officially listed on the stock exchange in Greece and pur- chases of real estate in Greece. Amounts of up to Dr 60,000 may be released for remittance by each account holder, provided that the funds were held before December 31, 1963; amounts of up to Dr 30,000 may be released semiannually for remittance by each account holder, from accounts opened after January 1, 1964, provided that the money deposited was derived exclusively from rents. Other amounts of balances on blocked accounts may also be transferred abroad with the prior approval of the Bank of Greece. Blocked balances may be deposited with a com- mercial bank, where they earn interest at current rates for sight deposits. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Greek citizens ( inc lud ing seamen) who are employed abroad and certain Greek societies and associations operating abroad may establish, with funds originating abroad, convertible foreign cur- rency accounts with authorized banks in Greece. Merchant seamen may deposit their wages and salaries in these accounts, provided that the funds originate abroad and, if they are received in drachmas, that they are obtained through the intermediary of a shipping firm established in Greece. Balances on these accounts earn interest at 3 per cent per annum for sight desposits, 63/4-l3A per cent per a n n um for time deposits, and 6V* per cent per annum for savings bank deposits. Balances on these accounts, including accrued interest, are freely convertible into for- eign exchange as long as the holder continues to work abroad, or to serve at sea, and for five years thereafter. Imports and Import Payments Imports of all commodities originating in or shipped from Rhodesia are prohibited and imports of cotton textiles from Hong Kong are suspended. All other imports, except those with an invoice value c.i.f. of the equivalent of US$100 or less for which payment will be made through an authorized bank, require approval. For most imports, prior approval is required; however, for certain commodities, mainly machinery and raw materials, imports may be effected without prior approval. The granting of an import license implies that appropriate foreign exchange will be made available. Apart from imports for which special licenses are required, two general import procedures (E and D) are applicable to private imports, mainly for statisti- cal purposes. Under procedure E, the approval of an authorized bank is required (1) for imports from countries participating in the European Monetary Agreement (EMA) other than Sweden when payment is to be made in a convertible or externally convertible European currency; (2) for imports from Canada or the United States when payment is to be made in free dollars, i.e., not on the basis of procurement authorizations under U.S. aid; and (3) for imports from countries with which Greece has concluded bilateral pay- ments agreements when payment is to be made through the relevant clearing account. No license GREECE is necessary under procedure E, but import appli- cations which have been approved by an author- ized b ank are registered with the Bank of Greece. Under procedure D, an import approval issued by the Bank of Greece is required for imports financed by U.S. aid, for imports other than those covered by procedure E, for all imports from Sweden, and for imports for which the importer requests changes in the general provisions con- cerning the terms of shipment, method of settle- men t, terms of payment, etc. For all goods that do not requ ire a special import license, prices must be approved and pro forma invoices visaed in Greece by a local Chamber of Commerce. Special licenses are required for imports of commodities in List A (gold, certain luxury items, textiles, automobiles and parts, and certain foods tu f fs, including special-quality rice) and List B (certain types of machinery and spare parts). Special regulations govern imports of petroleum products similar to those produced by Greek refineries and imports of certain other items, such as goods under monopoly control, medicines, nar- cotics, wheat and flour, sulphur, and motion- picture films, as well as barter transactions based on clearing agreements. For purposes of applying regulations concern- ing paymen ts for imports and advance deposit requirements, all private imports are classified in nine lists (P-6, P-12, F, F-50/1-3, and F- 100/1-3). Payments for imports may be made by letter of credit, by cash against shipping docu- ments, or by acceptance of time draf ts (which is permitted only for goods in Lists P-6 and P-12, the time l im it being six months for List P-6 and one year for List P-12, except for machinery and spare parts, for which the time limit is three yea r s ). The Ministry of Commerce may authorize longer payment periods and may also approve deferred payments for imports not included in the P lists. When time drafts are accepted, a personal written undertaking amounting to 4 per cent of the amount of the d ra ft is required as a guarantee that the payment will be made within the pre- scribed time limits. When a letter of credit is opened, the importer is required to deposit in drachmas the whole amount of the credit with the intervening bank. In addition, for those imports included in Lists 201 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE F-100/1 and F-100/2, fu r ther cash deposits of, respectively, 40 per cent and 19 per cent of the c.i.f. value are required as security for import duties and other taxes. For imports under proce- du re E, this deposit must be made when the import approval is obtained; for imports under procedure D, the deposit must be made w i th in 20 days of the import approval. Advance deposits are not required for imports for which payment is to be made by acceptance of time d ra f t s. When payments for imports are to be made against sight d ra f t s, advance deposits in cash are required for private imports included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3.2 Advance depos- its are the same for all countries. They are calcu- lated on the c.i.f. invoice value and consist of two components: a prepayment required when apply- ing for an import approval and an advance (secur i ty) against import duties and other taxes. Security deposits, however, are not required for capital goods and spare parts that are exempt from import du ty by v ir tue of the laws governing investment of foreign or domestic capital. The rates of deposit for each list of imports are set out below. List F-50/1 List F-50/2 List F-50/3 List F-100/1 List F-100/2 List F-100/3 Prepayment Security Total In per cent of invoice value 50 20 70 42'/2 17 59'/2 25 10 35 100 40 140' 85 34 119 50 20 70 For goods imported and cleared through cus- toms in the Dodecanese Islands, the advance against import duties and other taxes is reduced to one half of the above-mentioned percentages. When imports are financed with U.S. aid funds, a fur ther deposit of 10 per cent must be made in cash or by bank guarantee and in favor of the Greek State, in addition to any deposit as speci- fied above. All deposits must be made with the intervening bank ( 1) at the time the import approval is obtained, for imports under procedure E, and (2) within 10 days (for Athens and the 2 Commodities not included in these lists, or in Lists A, B, P-6, P-12, or F, are subject to the advance de- posit requirements applicable to goods in List F-50/3. No advance deposit is required for products in Lists F, P-6, and P-12. 3 The total of prepayment and security deposit for ham and European-type cheese is 98 per cent. 202 Piraeus a rea) or 20 days ( for the provinces) of ob ta in ing the import approval, for imports under procedure D. Upon delivery of the shipping doc- uments, the importer's bank issues a permit for the customs clearance of the goods, and advance deposits are refunded; however, for goods included in Lists F-50/1-3 and F-100/1-3 the deposits must be retained by the commercial bank for a period of four months from the date on which they were made for a range of specified imports covering fabrics, electrical household appliances, and passenger motor vehicles and for a period of two months for other imports. Certain companies, public agencies, and orga- nizations that have been designated as public service institutions are exempt from the advance deposit requirements. Advance paymen ts may be made to foreign suppliers for all imports against delivery of ship- ping documents or against a letter of undertaking issued by a foreign bank. Special regulations govern imports by state agencies, public entities, and public utility companies. Except for goods in Lists P-6 and P-12, which may be shipped prior to approval, goods must be shipped within six mon ths and arrive in Greece within nine months a f ter the date of import approval. Final settle- ment of the value of imported goods must take place w i th in 60 days following the date of arrival at the first Greek port; however, settlement must take place within 120 days following the date of arrival for goods in Lists P-6 and P-12. Most imports are subject to a stamp tax of 2-5 per cent of the c.i.f. duty-paid and tax-paid value. Payments for invisible» Payments for invisibles require approval, but th is is granted freely for expenses incidental to authorized trade transactions and for certain other transactions. Transfers abroad on account of specified categories of insurance (shipping, aviation, merchandise transport, and fire) or rein- surance (accident and l ife) are authorized by the Bank of Greece up to specified percentages of the amounts owed. Greek residents going abroad for family rea- sons, tourist travel, or business are entitled to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution equivalent of US$200 for each t r ip and for three trips a yea r; instead of this allowance, tourists participating in group tours are granted an amount based on a cost declaration submitted by the travel agency. Exporters and manu fac tu re rs are allowed US$20 a day for a m a x im um of 45 days when they travel to the United States, Canada, or the Far East; for all other countries the allowance is US$15 a day for a max imum of 30 days. Requests for larger amounts or from other bus inessmen, commercial representatives, etc., are subm i t ted to the Foreign Exchange Sub- committee. Persons traveling abroad may take with them a m a x im um of Dr 750 in Greek bankno te s. Greek nationals, not i n c l u d i ng those resident abroad, are required to declare all domestic and foreign bankno tes and o ther va luab les t ak en w i th them upon leaving Greece; no dec lara t ion is requ i red from holders of fo re ign passports. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports requ i re ind iv idu al licenses, but most exports are free of q u a n t i t a t i ve l im i ta t ion. Export proceeds must be su r rende red w i th in 150 days from the date of export of the goods; in special cases, however, the a u t h o r i t i es are empowered to extend th is period up to two years for manu fac- tures and up to one year for o ther commod i t ies. The M in is t ry of Commerce may license barter transactions invo lv ing the export of tobacco, cer- ta in types of f r u i t, or w ines; such transactions are perm i t ted w i th m a i n l a nd C h i n a, Czechos lovak ia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hung a ry, I r a n, Is rae l, Po land, and the U.S.S.R. In add i t ion, any commodity may, subject to ind iv idual au thor iza t ion, be exported on a bar ter basis to A lban ia, ma in land Ch ina, the Repub l ic of Ch ina, and Iran. Proceeds from invisibles Exchange receipts represen t ing paymen ts for services must be surrendered. Exchange proceeds from shipping are exempt from the surrender requ i remen t, but shipowners have to pay for sup- plies, repairs, etc., and any taxes and fees, and must cover their disbursements and expenses in Greece in local currency obtained th rough the sale of foreign exchange to the Bank of Greece. GREECE Travelers may bring in a max imum of Dr 750 in Greek bankno tes. Any surplus is deposited in a blocked account with the Bank of Greece; sub- ject to pr ior approval by the Bank, the surplus may be taken out on depar ture or spent in Greece on personal financial requirements. Greek res iden ts r e t u r n i ng to Greece must declare the for- eign exchange in th e ir possession. Nonresident travelers of foreign n a t i o n a l i ty may import any amount of fo re ign cu r rency and need not declare it at the t ime of en te r ing the coun try, and non- res iden ts ho ld ing Greek passports are required to declare the ir foreign exchange only if they intend, when leaving Greece, to take out again foreign exchange in excess of US$500 or its equivalent. Capital Commercial banks and inves tment banks may f ree ly borrow convertible currencies abroad, pro- vided t h at they lend corresponding amounts as foreign cu r r en cy loans for periods of at least five years to produc t ive enterprises established in Greece. All o ther investments in Greece by non- res iden ts are subject to approval. Such approval is au toma t ic for purchases of real estate for per- sonal use. Under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53, approved fore ign inves tmen ts which aim at the promo t ion of national production or otherwise con t r ibu te to the economic advancement of Greece may be granted preferential treatment. Under Law No. 4171/61, as amended by Legisla- t ive Decree No. 4256/62, fu r th er privileges are provided for foreign capital participating in inves tment projects in Greece exceeding Dr 60 m i l l i on in va lue. Moreover, Legislative Decree No. 4256/62 provides additional repatriation fac i l i t ies for fore ign inves tmen ts which promote exports. Repa t r ia t ion fac i l i t ies are as follows: ( 1) Approved investments according to the provisions of the legislation mentioned above may not be repa t r ia ted before one year from the date the en te rp r ise begins to operate productively and in no case before one year f rom the date the capital was impo r ted. (2) The repatriation of foreign cap i tal may not exceed 10 per cent a year of the amount of capital imported. The repatriation of d iv idends on equ i ty capital and of interest on loan cap i tal may not exceed 12 per cent a year and 10 per cent a year, respectively. (3) Under 203 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE the provisions of Law No. 4171/61, profits on approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad in amounts not exceeding 6 per cent a year of the repatriated portion of the capital, pro- vided, however, that the amount of profits trans- ferred shall not exceed 8 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. (4) For investments made under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 that are not covered by Law No. 4171/61, the transfer of profits is related to the residual capital remaining in Greece, and the transfer privilege expires as soon as all capital has been repatriated. (5) Under the provisions of Legislative Decree No. 4256/62, the repatriation of capital and profits of foreign investments approved under the provi- sions of Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can exceed the rates specified in (2) above, up to 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the enterprise from the sale of its products abroad. Also, foreign loans approved under Legislative Decree No. 2687/53 can be repatriated at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent, provided that the amount of the loan does not exceed double the value of the share capital and that the amounts repatriated do not exceed 70 per cent of the foreign exchange earnings of the corporation. Deviations from the general regulations may be approved for foreign capital imported to develop exports of agricultural and mining products or invested in enterprises of special importance to the economy. Specified foreign short-term invest- ment may also be granted preferential treatment in respect of the repatriation of capital and the transfer of interest. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval. Gold Residents may freely purchase specified gold coins (mainly sovereigns) from the Bank of Greece, through licensed stockbrokers, at prices set by the central bank; purchasers must sign a statement to the effect that the coins will only be resold to the Bank of Greece or to licensed stockbrokers. Holders of gold coins acquired in the free market that existed prior to Decem- ber 22, 1965 may sell these anonymously and without formality only to the Bank of Greece or to 204 an authorized bank and at the official price. Resi- dents may deal freely, however, in bullion. Imports of gold against payment in foreign exchange are on Import List A and require a spe- cial license issued by the Ministry of Commerce; licenses are normally issued to reputable import- ers for distribution to recognized users, such as jewelers and dentists. Gold bars and gold coins may be imported freely by commercial banks and other residents when no payment in foreign exchange is involved. Changes during 1969 January 25. Special controls were imposed on imports from France. These were lifted on Febru- ary 10. March 4. The requirement of a four-month retention period for advance import deposits on passenger automobiles, which had been estab- lished on July 4, 1968 for eight months, was extended until October 2, 1969. March 6. The US$200 travel allowance (for tourist and business travel as well as travel for fam i ly reasons), which previously could be taken up for any number of trips a year, could hence- for th be used only for three trips a year. March 6. The amount of domestic banknotes that travelers could bring in or take out was raised from Dr 200 to Dr 750, irrespective of the denomination of the notes. June 28. The range of the stamp tax levied on most imports was raised from 1-2 per cent to 2-5 per cent in order to bring it into line with the stamp tax levied on similar items produced locally. June 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Israel was terminated. July 24. Certain specified television parts were transferred to Import List A. August 8. New regulations were introduced to encourage investment by nonresident Greek nationals. All interest and redemption proceeds on government bonds purchased after that date by such persons would be remittable, while inter- est and dividends on other securities eligible for special treatment and listed in Athens would be remittable up to Dr 150,000 a person a year. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GREECE sible interest rates on the deposits were raised for sight deposits from Purchases of property in Greece would q u a l i fy for a reduction in the rates of conveyance duties, and income from such property would be remitta- ble up to Dr 60,000 a person a year; applications for additional amoun ts would be considered on their merits. September 2. In order to reduce the Greek creditor position under the payments agreement with the United Arab Republic, the Currency Committee enabled the Bank of Greece to extend interest-free credit for purchases of raw cotton from that country. September 27. Law No. 306 provided that construction firms could finance public works projects in Greece with funds obtained from banks or financial institutions abroad. October 1. The range of persons and institu- tions living or operating abroad that were entitled to establish convertible foreign currency accounts with banks in Greece was widened. The permis- GUATEMALA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Gua tema lan Quetzal or Q 1.00 = US$1. The official ra tes are Q 1.00 buy ing, and Q 1.01 selling, per US$ 1. The Bank of Guatemala quotes exchange rates for certain other currencies 1 on the basis of their rates in the New York marke t. On Janua ry 27, 1947, Guatemala notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obliga- tions of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Gua tema la (Exchange Depar tmen t) under the direction of the Monetary Board. Foreign exchange transactions of the public sector are carried out exclusively through the Bank of Gua- temala; those of the private sector are carried out through the med ium of authorized banks for the account of the Monetary Stabilization Fund ma in ta ined by the Bank of Guatemala. Prescription of Currency All exchange transactions must be carried out through banks. Payments to Costa Rica, El Sal- vador, Honduras, and Nicaragua in respect of trade and invisibles are normally settled in Gua- temalan quetzales through the Cámara de Com- pensación Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central Amer- ica to foster the process of economic integration of their countries. The Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala, however, is empowered to authorize the sale of currencies of other Cen- tral American countries to make payments to the Central American area. There are no obligations prescribing the currency for payments to and from other countries. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required except for imports of maps of Guatemala, explosives, poul- 1 Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 206 try, wheat flour, and used trucks and trailers. W i th in 8 days a f ter confirmation, importers must register w i th the Exchange Department any firm order to import merchandise. (Imports originat- ing f rom Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central Amer- ican Economic Integration are exempt from this requ i remen t .) Importers must effect their regis- tered imports dur ing the 90-day validity of the registration. All remittances abroad to pay for imports require exchange licenses, which are granted freely by the Exchange Department; the exchange is granted by the authorized banks upon submis- sion of the registration form and the shipping documents. Checks denominated in quetzales are authorized freely for payment for specified imports from Central American countries. Pay- ments for imports which have to be fully or par- tially prepaid must be made by letter of credit. When it is impossible to establish a letter of credit and the prepayment exceeds Q 1,000, -a deposit equal to 25 per cent of the amount of foreign exchange requested must be made with the Bank of Guatemala or an authorized bank in cash or in government bonds by importers who are not established importers in the country or who are unable to provide sufficient proof of the na tu re of the transaction; the deposit is refunded when the goods arrive in Guatemala. Importers of merchandise for which payment must be made in cash or in installments, and importers of mer- chandise on consignment, must present the origi- nal shipping documents usually required by the Guatemalan customs for the clearance of goods. Authorizations to withdraw imports from cus- toms must be obtained from the Exchange Department or an authorized bank, except for imports whose value does not exceed Q 50, household goods, samples, printed advertising material, and those imports originating in Central American countries and included in the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integra- tion. The Exchange Department and the author- ized banks issue such authorizations without delay. The customs officials may refuse clearance of goods if discrepancies are found between the information contained in the authorization issued ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution by the Exchange Department and in the import documents. For the specified imports f rom Cen tral American countries, the importer must complete, at either the Exchange Depar tment or the cus- toms office, a special fo rm requ ired by the Exchange Depar tmen t, giving a description of the merchandise to be imported and the da te on which he made the advance payment or the date on wh ich he under took to pay in the f u t u r e. If these fo rms are completed at the customs office, they must be fo rwa rded da i ly to the Exchange Depar tmen t. A surcharge of 100 per cent of the customs du ty may be applied to products originating in or imported f rom countries w i th which Gua tema la has an un favo rab le trade ba lance. On Decem- ber 31, 1969, th is surcharge applied to ce r ta in imports f r om 28 countries.2 This surcharge is waived if the goods are transpor ted in Gua tema- lan ships. Moreover, all imports f rom other areas wh ich are inc luded in the agreed un i fo rm t a r i ff list of the countries participating in the General Treaty for Cen t ral Ame r ican Economic Integra- tion are exempt f rom the surcharge. Impo r ts o r i g i n a t i ng ou ts ide the Central Ameri- can Common Ma rket are subject to. an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the app l icab le impo rt du ty. Payments for Invisibles All t rans fe rs abroad on account of cu r rent invisibles requ i re au tho r iza t ion by the Exchange Depa r tmen t, m a in ly for the purposes of check ing capital t ransac t ions. Payments of up to Q 1,000 to El Salvador or up to Q 200 to Costa R ica, Honduras, and N icaragua do not requ i re au tho r i- zation by the Exchange Depa r tmen t. Reques ts for foreign exchange for payments for cu r r ent invisibles must be supported by such documen ts as may be required by the Exchange Depar tment to v e r i fy that the opera t ion is genu- ine. The sale of fore ign exchange for most cate- 2 Au s t r a l i a, Borneo, Ceylon, Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, E th iop ia, F in l and, Hong Kong, Ind ia, Indonesia, Iran, I raq, J ap an, Ma lagasy Repub l ic, Ma lays ia, Mexico, Morocco, Mozamb ique, Ne the r lands, P ak i s t an, Ph i l ip- pines, Por tuga l, Somalia, Sudan, Tha i land, Un i ted A r ab R epub l i c, Un i ted K ingdom, U rugu ay, and Yugoslavia. GUATEMALA gories of cu r rent inv is ib les, inc lud ing remittances of income f rom and repayments of registered for- eign loans and investments, is authorized freely. For ce r ta in payments for current invisibles, exchange is sold up to established limits; in some cases, requests in excess of these limits are approved. There is an exchange allowance equiv- a lent to a m ax imum of Q 2,500 a person in any one year for tour ist travel abroad. Minors not t r av e l ing alone are entitled to half the adult allowance. The exchange allocation for travelers on business is Q 750 a person for journeys to B r i t ish Hondu ras and the Mexican border towns, and Q 2,500 for journeys to other parts of the wor ld. Subject to the Q 2,500 annual limit, exchange is gran ted up to the equivalent of Q 50 for each day of planned tourist travel abroad; exchange in excess of this daily max imum is gran ted when an add i t ional a l lo tment is consid- ered ju s t i f i ed. To ensure that both limits are observed for tour ist trave l, the traveler, when pu rcha s ing travel exchange, must lodge with the Bank of Guatemala a guarantee deposit in quet- zales equ iva lent to the fore ign exchange pur- chased; the deposit is re funded upon return to Gu a t em a l a, provided that the traveler either sub- m i ts proof of h av ing stayed abroad for at least the n um b er of days for which he purchased the exchange or r e t u r ns foreign exchange correspond- ing to the number of days of the shortfall. All i n t e r n a t i o n al air passages (w i th the exception of those for travel w i th in Central Ame r ica) are sub- ject to a tax of 10 per cent.3 The exchange allocation for remittances abroad for f am i ly ma in tenance is Q 250 a month for each re la t ive (Q 200 for those under 18 years of a g e ), up to a m a x im um of Q 700 a month for each bene f ic ia ry fam i ly. Foreign technical person- nel employed in Gua tema la may remit abroad up to two th i rds of their salaries if their families reside abroad, or up to one th i rd if their families reside in Gua tema la. Foreign technicians leaving the coun t ry pe rmanen t ly may, subject to individ- ual approva l, t rans fer the ir savings up to the fu ll amount of the ir earnings in Guatemala. Limits are also imposed on remittances for students' expenses abroad. < The tax was raised f rom 5 per cent to 10 per cent on May 22, 1968. 207 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUATEMALA The export of Guatemalan banknotes and coins is not prohibited; however, Guatemalan banknotes and coins received from abroad are not converted by the Bank of Guatemala unless they come from Costa Rica, El Salvador, Hondu- ras, or Nicaragua. For these countries, the Bank of Guatemala guarantees monthly conversions into U.S. dollars up to the following limits: Costa Rica, Q 125,000; El Salvador, Q 400,000; Hon- duras, Q 300,000; and Nicaragua, Q 125,000. There are no regulations prohibiting the export of foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require an export license from the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. Exports to Central American countries of goods included in the General Treaty for Central Amer- ican Economic Integration are exempt from this requirement; for these goods, the exporter must complete a special form required by the Exchange Department presenting evidence that the export proceeds have been sold to an author- ized bank. The application for an export license must be accompanied by a full description of the na tu re of the transaction, including the terms and method of payment. The Exchange Department issues licenses only if certain conditions have been met : ( 1 ) for exports paid for in advance or in cash, it requires evidence that the export pro- ceeds have been sold to an authorized bank; (2) for exports on credit, it requires an undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within 90 days of the date the license is issued; and (3) for exports on consignment, it requires the exporter's certified declaration show- ing the estimated value of the export and his undertaking to sell the relevant exchange to an authorized bank within a period not exceeding 180 days after the issuance of the license. Export industries financed with foreign loans, however, are permitted to retain a portion of export pro- ceeds abroad to cover amortization of the loans. Exports of meat to the United States are subject to voluntary restraint. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange proceeds from invisibles must be declared and surrendered. The import of 208 Guatemalan and foreign banknotes is not restricted. The purchase of Salvadoran banknotes by authorized banks is limited to @ 500 a person. Capital All foreign capital investments in Guatemala must be declared and registered with the Exchange Department of the Bank of Guatemala. All investment by foreign, domestic, or foreign- controlled companies in the construction of pri- vate housing in Guatemala requires the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy; such investment may be limited to a specified over-all amount a year, it must meet certain minimum qua l i ty and financing standards, and the sales value of a housing unit must not exceed Q 6,000. All outgoing capital payments require exchange licenses, which, like those for the transfer of profits and dividends, are granted freely for remittances of registered foreign investments and amortization of foreign loans. Transfers abroad of resident-owned capital are not permitted, with the exception of transfers for the purpose of investing in, or financing of, commercial, agricultural, or industrial firms in Costa Rica, El Salvador, Hon- duras, and Nicaragua. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form in Guatemala. Residents other than banks may sell gold coins and gold bars only to the Bank of Guatemala or to banks licensed for this purpose by the Monetary Board. The Bank of Guatemala is obliged to purchase all gold offered to it. The Bank also sells domestic and imported gold to domestic artistic and industrial users, in accord- ance with directives of the Monetary Board. Gold is imported only by the Bank of Guatemala. Changes during 1969 March 18. Decree No. 305 of June 6, 1955, which prohibited trade with communist countries, was revoked. September 23. Meat exports were restricted by quotas. October 25. Imports of used trucks and trailers required an import license. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA Exchange Rale System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Guinea has been established with the Fund. The un it of currency (introduced on March 1, 1960) is the Gu iñean Franc, defined as a mone- tary un it containing 0.0036 gram of fine gold. It corresponds to GF 44.44 = 1 French f ranc and GF 246.853 = US$1. The official buying and selling rates are GF 246 and GF 272 per US$1, respectively. These rates apply to all transactions and include a bank commission. Clearing account transactions under bilateral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of GF 246.853 per US$1. Administration of Control The Central Bank of the Republic of Guinea is the only au tho r i ty in exchange control matters; this authority is carried out through the Exchange Control Office of the Bank. The Bank has not delegated any of its exchange control powers to any other bank or institution. The Minister of Financial A f f a i rs is charged w i th supervision over the Central Bank. All settlements w i th foreign countries, inc lud ing payments for imports, requ i re approval by the Exchange Control Office. Import and export licenses are issued, within the f ramewo rk of an annual program, by the Ministry of Commerce (State Secretariat of For- eign Trade) af ter applications have been screened by the National D is tr ibu t ion Commission in the Exchange Office. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments agreements are made in currencies prescribed by, and through accounts established under, the provisions of the agreements.1 Settlements w i th other countries are made in designated convertible currencies.2 1 Gu inea m a in t a ins bilateral paymen ts agreements w i th Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Ghana, Hunga ry, North Korea, Lebanon, Mali, Morocco, Poland, Rumania, Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Nonresident Transferable Accounts in Foreign Currencies and Nonresident Accounts in Guiñean Francs. The opening of a nonresident account is subject to the prior approval of the Exchange Control Office. Imports and Import Payments There is no list of prohibited imports, but cer- tain imports are not being licensed. All imports, other than those under the Seven-Year Plan, requ ire ind iv idual licenses, which are issued by the Ministry of Commerce, a f ter applications have been screened and approved by the National Dis- tribution Commission. Once an import license has been issued, au thor iza t ion for the corresponding payment is granted by the Exchange Control Office. Impor ts by foreign concession holders re- qu ire import licenses for statistical purposes only and are not restricted. Most imports into Guinea are made within the f ramewo rk of an annual import program. This pro- gram is prepared by the M in is try of Commerce on the basis of the country's import needs, the domes- tic production possibilities of import substitutes, and experience with the previous year's import program. The program requires the approval of the National D is tr ibu t ion Commission, which takes into consideration the sources of imports and the availability of convertible currencies and of bal- ances under payments agreements. Certain items are imported outside the import program. These are goods for which foreign exchange is derived from sources other than the exchange reserves of Guinea —e.g., imports made Sierra Leone, U.S.S.R., United Arab Republic, North V ie t -Nam, and Yugos lav ia. There are also inoperative payments agreements w i th Cameroon, Liberia, and Senegal and a clearing arrangement with a private firm established in Switzerland. 2 These currencies are listed as Algerian dinars, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, CFA francs, Congo zaïres, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Ghanaian new cedis, I ta l ian lire, Libyan pounds, Moroccan dir- hams, Ne the r lands guilders, N ige r ian pounds, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Sierra Leonean leones, Span- ish pesetas, Sudanese pounds, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 209 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUINEA by foreign concession holders (the Fria Company and the S i f ra Company) and by foreign embas- sies —and goods for the Seven-Year P lan. All commercial impor ts other than those by the Fria Company and the S ifra Company are made by state enterprises that specialize in var ious types of commerce. All commodities are subject to import sur- charges, except when imported by the Fria Com- pany. Payments for invisibles All payments for invisibles requ ire the authori- zation of the Exchange Control Office, irrespective of the country to which the payment is to be made. Payments for freight and insurance in connec- tion with imports are authorized as part of the import license. No exchange is granted for other types of insurance w i th companies abroad. There is no basic allocation for tourist travel; each application is considered individually. There is a basic allocation for business travel expenses (o ther th an transpor ta t ion) of GF 15,000 a trip. Government officials on official missions are per- mitted an allowance of GF 2,000 a day if they travel in Africa and GF 2,500 a day if they travel outside Africa. Pilgrims are granted exchange up to the equivalent of GF 60,000 for each p i lgr image and, in addition, up to GF 190,000 to pay for fa res connected w i th the pilgrimage. In cases of serious illness, provided that a doctor's ce r t i f ica te is subm i t ted, Gu iñean nationals are granted foreign exchange for medi- cal care abroad or are permitted to transfer exchange for the care of relatives receiving medi- cal trea tment abroad. Ind iv idual authorization is required for the payment in Gu inea of all fares for foreign travel. Payments for fam i ly support may be made up to GF 10,000 a month for each beneficiary, whether child or adult. For officially recognized study abroad, the student's relatives may transfer the equivalent of the amount of a government scholarship, i.e., GF 22,500 a month. Students starting their studies abroad are granted an addi- tional foreign exchange allowance of up to GF 40,000. The Foreign Investment Law guaran- tees that at least 20 per cent of the net annual 210 profits of approved foreign investments may be transferred abroad; the percentage actually per- mitted to be transferred abroad depends on the agreement concluded between the enterprise con- cerned and the Government. In addition to trans- fers under other regulations, foreign planters are permitted to transfer abroad GF 4 per kilogram of pineapples exported, GF 3 per kilogram of bananas exported, and GF 2 per kilogram of citrus fruit exported. Expa tr ia te workers employed by the public sector in Guinea may transfer abroad 30 per cent of their net monthly salaries if they are married and 20 per cent if they are single. In practice, however, many expatriate workers employed by the public sector are permitted to transfer up to 40 per cent of their net monthly salaries. Expa tr ia te workers employed by the pri- vate sector may t rans fer abroad 25 per cent of their net mon th ly salaries if married and 15 per cent if single; in practice, the transfer of 30 per cent is of ten permitted. The export of Guiñean currency is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds The M in is try of Commerce establishes an annual export program, which requires the approval of the National D is tr ibu t ion Commission. All exports requ ire ind iv idual licenses in order ( 1 ) to assure the implementation of the export program (par t icu lar ly in respect of commitments under bilateral trade agreemen ts); (2) to permit the Treasury to levy certain duties (e.g., mining companies must pay export taxes of 6 per cent on the va lue of ores expo r ted ); (3) to prevent shortages of goods needed for domestic consump- t ion; and (4) to prevent the export of capital. Special authorization f rom designated agencies is required in addition to the export license for the following commodities: wild animals (dead or a l ive ), edible animals, articles of historical or ethnographical interest, jewelry, articles made of precious metals, and plants and seeds. An export license is granted only when the exporter assumes the obligation to surrender the proceeds immedi- ately after they are collected. Exports other than those effected by the Fria Company are made by a state institution, Guinex- port. Foreign planters are granted special transfer privileges related to the quantity of pine- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution apples, bananas, or c i trus f ru i ts exported section on Payments for Invisibles, above). (see All export proceeds must be surrendered; how- ever, the Fria Company and the Sifra Company are allowed to retain 662/s per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, of the ir export earnings. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds accruing to residents in respect of invisibles must be surrendered. The import of fore ign bankno tes and t rave le rs checks is permitted free ly, subject to declaration on entry, but both must be surrendered w i th in 24 hours a f ter en try. Nonresident travelers may repurchase and re-export the foreign exchange declared upon en t ry, a f ter deduc t ion of the ir local expend i tu re s; th is deduc t ion cannot be less than the equ iva lent of US$20 for each day of their stay, unless evidence can be produced to show that actual expend i ture was less. The import of Gu iñean cu r rency is proh ib i ted. Capital All capital t ran s fe rs require au tho r iza t ion. Out- ward capital t r an s f e rs by Gu iñean na t iona ls are prohibited. The Foreign Inves tment Law (Law No. 50/AN/62) of Apr il 5, 1962, which replaced a more res tr ic t ive one of May 1960, provides guar- antees against na t iona l iza t ion for foreign invest- ments in the indu s t r ial and m in ing sectors; it also provides for preferen t ial tax and customs treat- ment applicable to foreign investments and for the t rans fer of profits, interest, amor t iza t ion, and proceeds acc ru ing f rom the l iqu ida t ion of such investments. Small and medium-sized enterprises in which at least GF 150 m i l l ion is invested over a 3-year period may receive exemptions for a period of 7 to 10 years; exemptions for up to 25 GUINEA years may be granted on long-term investments of pa r t icu lar impor tance to the Guiñean econ- omy. The ac tual conditions under which foreign inves tmen ts may be made are subject to negotia- tions w i t h in the terms of this law. Gold Guinea has issued f o ur commemorative gold coins which are legal tender. Furthermore, resi- dents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guinea for num i sm a t ic purposes. With these exceptions, residents o ther than the mone ta ry authorities and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- e lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewe l ry require licen- ses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not no rma l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and indu s t r i al users. Changes during 1969 July. Commemorative gold coins of GF 1,000, GF 2,000, GF 5,000, and GF 10,000 were issued. The coins were legal tender. August 12. Decree No. 361/PRG introduced an import surcharge of 100 per cent of the appli- cable customs du ty; on imports of certain capital goods and raw ma ter ia ls for the Department of the Plan the surcharge was 50 per cent of the import d u t y. Imports by the Fria Company were exemp t. September. Pr iva te imports of automobiles became subject to du t ies of up to 150 per cent ad valorem. December 29. Decree No. 610/69/PRG estab- lished supplementary fiscal charges on specified imports. These included certain flour-milling products, certain alcoholic beverages, caustic soda, and caustic potash. 211 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Guyana Dollar or G$2 = US$1. The Guyana dollar has a fixed relationship to sterling of G$4.80 = «£1 and is freely convertible into sterling at this rate, subject to banking commis- sions; in its dealings with commercial banks, the Bank of Guyana charges a commission of y16 of 1 per cent on inward transfers and 7/16 of 1 per cent on outward transfers (Vs of 1 per cent, buy ing and selling, for Jamaica dollars and Trinidad and Tobago dollars). The banks in Guyana base the rates for currencies other than sterling, Trini- dad and Tobago dollars, and Jamaica dollars on the current London market rates. The central bank normally deals only in Canadian dollars, Jamaica dollars, pounds sterling, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. Guyana accepted the obligations of Ar t i- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment as from December 27, 1966. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Governor-General and the Minister of Finance, who have entrusted its administration to the Bank of Guyana. Authority for approving normal import payments and providing allocations of foreign exchange for other current payments is delegated to the banks authorized for this pur- pose; certain payments in respect of cu r rent invisi- bles of a personal na ture, however, require the approval of the Bank of Guyana. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Minis- try of Trade. Prescription of Currency Guyana is a member of the Sterling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements broadly similar to those of the United Kingdom.1 Authorized settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of 1 Guyana's exchange control regulations define the Sterling Area as excluding Rhodesia. 212 Guyana to residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in any non-Sterling Area currency, in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or in Guyana dollars to the credit of an External Account in Guyana. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in any non-Sterling Area currency (in any specified currency 2 for export proceeds) or in sterling or Guyana dollars from an External Account. Nonresident Accounts Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may maintain accounts in Guyana dollars in Guyana. These are treated in the same way as the Guyana dollar accounts of residents of Guyana; thus, no exchange control permission is required for transfers within the Sterling Area. There are two categories of accounts for persons who are not residents of Guyana or other parts of the Sterling Area: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened, with exchange control approval, for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by residents of Guyana to nonresidents of the Sterling Area and with trans- fers from other External Accounts; other credits require approval. They may be debited for pay- ments for any purpose to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is in Guyana; other debits require approval. Blocked Accounts are credited with funds that are not placed at the free disposal of nonresidents (e.g., capital proceeds). These accounts may be debited for certain authorized payments, includ- ing the purchase of approved securities. imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are prohibited. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited; for some goods, the prohibition is not applicable when they originate in other countries of the Caribbean Free Trade Association. Imports subject to ind iv idual licensing are speci- fied in a "negative list"; they include coffee, sugar, certain vegetables, cereals, meat, poultry, dairy products, fats, copra, vegetable and animal oils, petroleum products and other fuels, building materials, certain chemicals, detergents, gold, dia- monds and jewelry, firearms, grain-milling machinery, radios, and appliances. The granting of ind iv idual licenses and the conditions attached thereto depend on current policy; some goods are subject to quota while the others are licensed freely. Other goods may be imported under an open general license applicable to all countries of origin except Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R.; import quotas for commodities originat- ing in these countries are based on the value of imports from them in 1964. For certain gar- ments, the open general license is not applicable to Japan. Payments for authorized imports are permitted upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for transactions exceeding C$240. Imports of all commodities not exempt from import du ty are subject to a defense levy of 3 per cent ad valorem. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles to other countries of the Sterling Area are permitted freely without limit. All payments for invisibles to countries out- side the Sterling Area require approval, which is given freely, provided that no illegal capital trans- fer seems to be involved. Standard allocations are applied to certain payments of a personal nature on an annual basis, e.g., for travel abroad (G$666) 3, for education at schools abroad (G$3,360 for each ch i ld), for education at uni- versities and comparable institutions (G$4,800 3 This allocation may be accumulated up to G$2,000 for any three-year period. GUYANA for each s tuden t ), and for fam i ly maintenance (G$4,800). Travelers going abroad may take with them Guyana currency notes not exceeding G$100; these notes do not form part of any allotment of exchange for travel. In addition, Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area currency notes to the value of G$50 may be taken out as part of any travel exchange allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of rice to non-Caribbean countries may only be made by the Guyana Rice Corporation. Most exports are free of export license, but are supervised by the authorized banks and the Customs and Excise Department to ensure that the exchange proceeds are repatriated and, if obtained in specified currencies (see foot- note 2), surrendered. Exchange control forms have to be completed only for exports exceeding G$2,000 in value. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified currencies received on account of invisibles must be sold to an authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Travelers may bring in any currency notes freely. Capital Residents of the Sterling Area may freely invest in Guyana and repatriate their capital at any time in a Sterling Area currency. Nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area must obtain "approved status" for new investments at the time of invest- ment in order to be able to repatriate capital. Such approval is normally given for direct invest- ments in new projects that would benefit the bal- ance of payments or the economy of Guyana; it carries w i th it an assurance that profits may be remitted and that upon liquidation of the invest- ment the proceeds, including any capital incre- ments, may be repatriated in full in non-Sterling Area currency. The export of capital to non-Sterling Area countries by residents is not normally permitted. Specified currencies obtained by residents through capital transactions must be surrendered to an 213 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution GUYANA authorized bank, but other currencies may be retained by the recipient. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Guyana for num isma t ic purposes. Residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and authorized industrial users are not allowed without special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry or coins for numismatic purposes, at home or abroad. Neither the Bank of Guyana nor any other official institution purchases gold to supply domestic industry. Imports and exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Ministry of Trade; such licenses are not granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities, authorized dealers, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1969 January 1. All imports other than those cur- rently exempt from customs du ty were made sub- ject to a 3 per cent defense levy. February 28. Import duties on many consumer durable goods, certain textiles, jewelry and gems, and certain foods tuffs were increased. March 5. The Central Bank revised its charges for inward and outward transfers from %6 of 1 per cent for both buying and selling to y16 of 1 per cent buy ing and %6 of 1 per cent selling. April 22. Table and household plastic articles were made subject to specific import licensing. July 8. Radio apparatus for television and other purposes was made subject to specific import licensing. July 22. Imports of detergents from CARIFTA countries required a specific license and those from other countries were put on the prohibited list. November 1. The Guyana Rice Corporation was established. It took over from the Rice Marketing Board the sale of rice outside the Caribbean markets. December 1. An intraregional settlements agree- ment between the central banks of Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago came into effect. December 1. The Central Bank commenced purchas ing and selling Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars and Jamaica dollars. 214 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI Exchange Rale System The par value is 0.177734 gram of fine gold per Ha i t ian Gourde or G 5.00 = US$1. This rate is applicable to all transac t ions. In addition to the gourde, the U.S. dollar is legal tender. Exchange transactions by commercial banks with the pub l ic are subject to small banking commis- sions; those by the National Bank w i th the com- mercial banks and specified customers are free from such commissions but are subject to a stamp tax of %0 of 1 per cent. Certain payments arrears have arisen; in principle, there are no other controls or restrictions on foreign transactions. On December 22, 1953, Haiti no t if ied the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency for paymen ts to or from nonresidents are imposed. Imports and Import Payments A l though the law provides for the imposition of qu an t i t a t ive res tr ic t ions on imports, import licenses are not required. Imports from member countries of the Council for Mu tual Economic Assistance and Japan, however, require prior au thor iza t ion by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. Imports of certain types of footwear and of a few other items are controlled for other than balance of payments reasons; the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance and Economic A f fa i rs is required to w i thd r aw these commodities from customs. In principle, paymen ts abroad may be made freely, but certain payments are in arrears. Impor ters opening letters of credit at the National Bank are usua l ly required to make cash deposits of up to 100 per cent of the amount of the letter of credit. Certain imports are subject, in addition to the applicable import du ty, to sur- charges of 4, 5, or 6 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue; goods subject to the 4 per cent or 6 per cent tax are also subject to an additional tax of 2 per cent. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports except coffee require prior authori- zation from the M in is try of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Coffee exports are shipped through the Federation of Haitian Coffee Exporters. Export au tho r iza t ion is usua l ly granted freely but may be w i thhe ld when domestic supplies are low. In order to ensure the quality of exports of essential oils, these are restricted to 450 barrels a year. Gold coins, bu l l ion, etc., may be exported only by the National Bank of the Republic of Haiti. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles In principle, payments for invisibles are not restricted, but certain arrears exist at present. No exchange control requirements are applied to pro- ceeds f rom invisibles. A regulation, which is seldom applied, prohibits the export and import of U.S. bankno tes in denominations of over $20. Capital In principle, incoming and outgoing capital paymen ts by residents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control, but certain arrears have arisen in recent years. Foreign investments in Haiti are regulated by a law of 1949 and a decree of March 13, 1963 and require the approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. Permission is not usually granted to nonresidents for investments in handicraft indus- tries. Under a decree of June 27, 1957, revising a law of August 14, 1952, private banks operating in Ha i ti are required to keep in the form of domestic assets a minimum of 80 per cent of deposits collected from residents of Haiti. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Haiti for num isma t ic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- elry, at home or abroad. By virtue of a law of August 31, 1942, the National Bank has the exclusive right to purchase domestically and 2 J5 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HAITI export gold in the form of coin, mineral, dust, or bars. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers may be made only by the National Bank; exports require in addition prior authoriza- tion by the Ministry of Finance, while imports for industrial use require prior authorization by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Min- istry of Finance as well as an endorsement by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry before cus- toms clearance. Commercial imports, however, of articles containing a limited amount of gold, such as gold watches, are freely permitted and do not require an import license or other authorization. A limited number of gold coins were issued in 1967 and sold mostly to nonresidents; these coins are legal tender. Changes during 1969 May 12. The tax on coffee for export was reduced by US$3 a bag until August 12. (On February 2, 1970, the tax was increased by US$1.20 a bag.) 216 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Exports and Export Proceeds HONDURAS The par va lue is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Hondu ran Lempira, or L 2.00 = US$1. The o f f ic ial rates are L 2.00 buying, and L 2.02 sell- ing, per US$1. Banknotes and coins in Costa Rican colones, Gua tema lan quetzales, Nicaraguan c órdobas, and Salvadoran colones are purchased at pa r i ty rates m inus an official exchange com- mission of 1 per cent and sold at par i ty rates. Honduras has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments. Exchange may be purchased from local banks w i thout restrictions; however, for sta- tistical purposes, buyers are required to file an application stating how the exchange will be used. Earners of foreign exchange wishing to negotiate the exchange in Honduras may do so only w i th the Central Bank of Honduras or through the bank ing system for account of the Central Bank. On August 19, 1950, Hondu ras notified the Fund th at it had assumed the obliga- tions of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, beginning on Ju ly 1, 1950. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method of cur- rency for paymen ts to or from nonresidents are imposed. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, and N icaragua in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Honduran lempi- ras through the Cámara de Compensaci ón Cen- troamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic in teg ra t ion of the ir coun- tries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Honduran lempiras through the clearinghouse. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for a few items. Payments and transfers abroad may be made freely; however, for statistical purposes, buyers of exchange are required to file an application stat- ing how the exchange will be used. Imports origi- nating outside the Central American Common Market are subject to a surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import du ty. Exports o ther t h an gold do not require li- censes. The proceeds of expor ts are not subject to exchange control, and the foreign exchange may be re ta ined or used for in te rna t ional transactions. Those w i sh ing to negotiate their exchange in Hondu ras may do so only w i th the Central Bank or th rough the b ank ing system for account of the Central Bank. Payments for and Proceeds from invisibles These are not restricted. Capital Capital paymen ts are not subject to exchange control. Foreign mu tu al f u n ds and similar finan- cial ins t i tu t ions require permission to collect f u n ds in Honduras for deposit or investment abroad. The commercial banks and other credit ins t i tu t ions require the approval of the Central Bank to contract any foreign indebtedness. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Hondu ras for num isma t ic purposes. With this excep t ion, residents other than the monetary au tho r i t ies and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry requ i re licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for impo r ts and exports by or on behalf of the mone- ta ry authorities, industrial users, and producers of gold. All locally produced gold is exported in the fo rm of ore for re f in ing. Commercial imports and exports of jewe lry and other articles containing gold requ ire licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy; for most articles, these are granted free ly. Changes during 1969 March 27. An import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable customs du ty was imposed on 217 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONDURAS imports originating outside the Central American Common Marke t. April 1. Presidential Decree No. 2 went into force. Foreign investment fund s, mu tual fund s, and real estate funds were prohibited, unless spe- cial permission was obtained from the Minister of Economy and Finance, from selling or advertising shares or certificates in Honduras and from col- lecting funds for deposit. 218 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG Exchange Raie System The par value is 0.146631 gram of fine gold per Hong Kong Dollar or HK$6.06061 = US$1. The exchange rate system comprises officiai rates and free ma rket rates; as far as rates for the U.S. dollar are concerned, these are, in practice, within 1 per cent of the par value. On Decem- ber 31, 1969, rates in the official ma rket were HK$14.530 buying, and HK$14.614 selling, per £ stg. 1, or HK$6.026 buying, and HK$6.096 selling, per US$1; rates in the free market on that date were HK$6.0738 buying, and HK$6.075 selling, per US$1. The official market rates are those of authorized banks, based on the sterling-Hong Kong dollar rate (agreed infor- mally by the three note-issuing banks w i th the Hong Kong Exchange Fund) and the sterling- foreign currency ' rates in the London foreign exchange market. The official rates apply to all transactions in Hong Kong dollars against sterling, to the pro- ceeds in U.S. dollars of exports not of local or neighboring origin, and to most authorized non- dollar transactions. The free market rates apply to other transactions. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Financial Secretary of the Colony. Some 50 banks are authorized to conduct exchange trans- actions w i th in the framework of the local regula- tions and subject to specific or general approval of the local control. These authorized banks are permitted to conclude exchange transactions only at the official market rates. The free market is operated by other banks and financial institutions. Import and export licensing is carried out by the Director of Commerce and Industry. Prescription of Currency The Colony of Hong Kong is part of the Ster- ling Area, and all settlements except those through the free market must be made by the method and in the currency prescribed in the exchange regulations, as described in the follow- ing paragraphs. Settlements for exports to and imports from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Licenses are required, however, for all payments made from Hong Kong to, or received in Hong Kong from, residents of other parts of the Sterling Area, except that authorized banks may freely make or receive such payments in respect of the follow- ing: ( 1) bona fide trade between Hong Kong and other Sterling Area territories; (2) payments between authorized banks or their branches in the Sterling Area for the purpose of transferring bank ing f u n ds to an authorized bank or for the se t t lement of the exchange transactions of an authorized bank; ( 3) bulk payments in favor of banks or recognized dealers in Hong Kong when the payments are for bona fide family remittances and no ind iv idual payment exceeds HK$8,000; and (4) other payments not exceeding £500 or the equ iva lent in other Sterling Area currencies. Payment in Hong Kong dollars for exports to ma in land China, the Republic of China, and Macao is permitted; imports from these territories may be paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account; see section on Nonresident Accounts, below) without ex- change control approval. The proceeds of ex- ports to all other countries outside the Sterling Area mu st be received in Hong Kong dollars from an External Account, in sterling from an Ex ternal Account held with an authorized bank in the Sterling Area, in a foreign currency ema- n a t ing from outside Hong Kong and freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars ( the foreign currency must be surrendered to an authorized b a n k ), or by international money order issued outside the Sterling Area. However, U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in ma in land China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao may be sold in the free market to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an authorized bank. Payment for imports from coun- tries outside the Sterling Area (except mainland Ch ina, the Republic of China, and Macao, as noted above) may be made by crediting sterling 219 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency. For merchanting transactions by Hong Kong firms in goods bought from and sold to countries outside the Sterling Area, outgoing payments may be made in a Sterling Area currency to the credit of an External Account or in any foreign cur- rency, provided that the incoming payment is received in a Sterling Area currency from an External Account or in a foreign currency from outside Hong Kong that is freely exchangeable for sterling or Hong Kong dollars. Subject to cer- tain requirements, including the submission of evidence that the local regulations of the country of destination have been complied with, author- ized banks may, on application by merchants in Hong Kong under tak ing a transaction in goods for their own account, make payment to nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area for direct imports into other territories of the Sterling Area of goods originating outside the Sterling Area. Such pay- ments may be made in sterling or Hong Kong dollars to an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency, provided that such cur- rency has not been acquired in the Hong Kong free market. Nonresident Accounts The treatment of nonresident accounts distin- guishes between those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (their accounts being treated in the same manner as accounts of residents of Hong Kong ), those of recognized banks situated outside the Sterling Area (External Accounts), and those of other nonresidents outside the Ster- ling Area. The accounts of companies and individuals res- ident outside the Sterling Area are treated in the same way as the accounts of residents, except that, without exchange control permission, they may not be overdrawn or be debited for any pay- ment outside Hong Kong.1 The accounts of recognized banks situated out- side the Sterling Area are termed External Ac- counts. These may be credited with permitted 1 Any company or private individual resident outside the Sterling Area may apply to the exchange control for special permission to open an External Account. 220 payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of foreign currencies to authorized banks. They may be debited freely, but they may not normally be overdrawn, and an order for the purchase of foreign currency may be executed only by an authorized bank. imports and import Payments Except for gold and certain dutiable or danger- ous commodities, imports are free of license. If the prescription of currency requirements are ful- filled, and if related shipping documents are pre- sented when the value of the consignment exceeds £250, the authorized banks may freely make payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area for imports from the Sterling Area, and to residents of other countries for individual shipments not exceeding £10,000 in value from those countries.2 To make payment or establish letters of credit through an authorized bank for imports from the dollar area for local consump- tion or for re-export to mainland China, the Republic of China, or Macao, the importer must surrender to an authorized bank U.S. dollars or Canadian dollars in amounts equivalent to the value of the imports; these currencies may be purchased in the free market. Imports from main- land China, the Republic of China, or Macao are norma l ly paid for in Hong Kong dollars (but not to the credit of an External Account), and exchange control approval is not required. An exchange control form must be submitted for prior approval for payments for imports not covered by the regulations described above. These include (1) imports for which documents are not presented, payment is required in advance of shipment,3 and payment is not in accordance w i th the usual prescription of currency require- ments; (2) goods imported specifically for re- export, and (3) all imports of diamonds, ships, and boats. 2 The completion of an exchange control form for imports in excess of £10,000 in one shipment is required principally for reporting and checking purposes; approval is given automatically, provided that the exchange control and import control requirements have been fulfilled. 3 Prior approval is not required for advance payments if the consignment does not exceed £250 in value and the payment is not being made more than three months before shipment takes place. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles HONG KONG Payments made through authorized banks and not exceeding £,500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, to other parts of the Sterling Area do not require approval; for larger amounts, exchange control permission is neces- sary. The authorized banks have power to ap- prove payments to nonresidents for most invisi- bles up to certain limits (no exchange con- trol form is required when the payment does not exceed <£100 or the equivalent). Payments for invisibles above these limits need the approval of the exchange control authorities, which is nor- mally granted. The basic allowance of exchange at the official rate for residents (for exchange control purposes) of Hong Kong traveling to countries outside the Sterling Area or beyond Macao is £250 or the equivalent for each indi- vidual journey. Applications for exchange in excess of this allowance to cover genuine travel expenses may be made to the exchange control authorities. In any event, payments may be made freely through the free market by holders of Hong Kong dollars. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any destination of gold and certain strategic goods are subject to restrictive licensing; there are also a number of bilateral agreements with specified countries under which the export of certain textiles is restricted. For exports to countries outside the Sterling Area, mainland China, the Republic of China, and Macao, the exporter must submit to the Department of Com- merce and Industry, for approval, a declaration showing how the export proceeds will be col- lected. If payment is not being received within six months and in accordance with prescription of currency requirements, the circumstances must be reported to the exchange control authorities. The U.S. dollar proceeds of exports to the dollar area or to the Republic of Korea of goods originating in mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao are freely disposable to the extent of the f.o.b. value of the goods; proceeds from freight and insurance payments have to be surrendered to an author- ized bank. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Receipts exceeding £500, or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies, from other parts of the Sterling Area require permission. When freight and insurance on exports that have origi- nated in mainland China, the Republic of China, Hong Kong, the Republic of Korea, or Macao, and that have been financed with U.S. dollars, are paid in Hong Kong by the exporter in sterling or in Hong Kong dollars, the exporter must sur- render the U.S. dollar proceeds of that freight and insurance at the official market rate. Other exchange receipts from invisibles need not be sur- rendered. Capital Licenses are required for transfers abroad of capital in currencies other than the U.S. dollar; these are granted at the official market rate only for approved purposes or, if the equivalent in U.S. dollars has been sold to an authorized exchange bank, at the discretion of the local con- trol. Exchange for the repatriation of foreign cap- ital is normally provided at the official market rate if prior exchange control approval for the investment has been given. Transfers of capital may be made freely in Hong Kong dollars through the free market. However, licenses are required for all receipts from, as well as transfers to, other parts of the Sterling Area which exceed £500 or the equivalent in other Sterling Area currencies; these licenses are granted for all bona fide transactions between Hong Kong and other parts of the Sterling Area. Gold There is a free market for gold in which non- residents who are not resident in Sterling Area countries may freely deal among themselves in bars and coins; settlements must take place in Hong Kong dollars or U.S. dollars through the free exchange market. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry, unless made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities, require licenses issued by the Financial Secretary. Imports and exports of gold jewelry not constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler require licen- ses issued by the Director of Commerce and Indus t ry. Unless an import license has been 221 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution HONG KONG granted, residents other than the monetary authorities are not permitted to purchase gold outside Hong Kong; export licenses are granted only for gold, other than jewelry, in transit. Resi- dents may hold gold in any form in Hong Kong but not outside. March 11. Exchange quotations in decimals were extended to all foreign currencies. May 20. The exchange banks suspended all forward buy ing of sterling and other foreign exchange. The suspension was lifted in July. Changes during 1969 January 2. The exchange banks started quoting rates for sterling in decimals rather than in frac- tions. December 28. It was announced that with e f fect from Janua ry 15, 1970 the Hong Kong gold market would shift its quotations from a fine- ness of 94.5 per cent to one of 99 per cent. 222 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND Exchange Rale System The par value is 0.0100985 gram of fine gold per Icelandic Kr óna or IKr 88.00 = US$1. The official rates are IKr 87.90 buying, and IKr 88.10 selling, per US$1. Rates for other currencies are based on these rates and the dollar rates for such currencies in other countries. Rates for settlements through clearing accounts are fixed; the buy ing and selling rates maintained for the currencies concerned by the Central Bank of Ice- land d i f fer from their parities by 0.12 per cent either side for clearing sterling, or by 0.12 per cent buy ing and 0.14 per cent selling for clearing kronur. The rate for clearing dollars is IKr 87.90 buy ing and IKr 88.10 selling. The authorized banks are permitted to carry out exchange trans- actions among themselves and to engage in arbi- trage in foreign markets. Administration of Control The Ministry of Commerce, after consulting the Central Bank, has the u l t ima te decision on matters concerning import and export licensing and on payments for invisibles. The Central Bank of Iceland is responsible for the regulation of for- eign exchange transactions and of exchange con- trol, inc lud ing capital controls, and for ensuring that all foreign exchange due to residents is sur- rendered to the authorized banks and that such exchange is disposed of as authorized. The two largest Icelandic banks, the National Bank of Ice- land and the Fisheries Bank, are the only banks, other than the Central Bank, that are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. In addition, they issue import and exchange licenses in consulta- tion with the Ministry of Commerce. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce. Prescription of Currency Iceland is a member of the Sterling Area. All settlements with the five countries with which Ice- land ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements must be made exclusively through clearing accounts, denominated as follows: with Ruman ia and the U.S.S.R., in Icelandic k r ónu r; with Brazil and Hunga ry, in sterling; and with Eastern Ger- many, in U.S. dollars. As a general rule, exchange receipts from other countries must be obtained in convertible currencies. In practice, settlements w i th countries in the dollar area are made in U.S. dollars; with countries in the Ster- ling Area and some other countries, in sterling; and with all other countries, in their respective currencies. Nonresident Accounts There are two categories of nonresident kr ónur accounts: Foreign Accounts and Special Ac- counts. The opening of nonresident accounts requires ind iv idual approval. Foreign Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from the sale of foreign currency to authorized banks and with authorized payments due to nonresidents from residents. Balances on Foreign Accounts may be used freely for pay- men ts to residents and may without a license be converted into the currency of the country of res- idence of the account holder. These accounts are in practice seldom used, payments for interna- t ional transactions generally being made in U.S. dollars, sterling, or other convertible currencies. Special Accounts in kr ónur or foreign currency may be opened by agreement with an authorized bank. The most impor tant of these accounts are those of foreign banks and foreign insurance companies. They may be credited freely, up to certain limits, with approved payments from resi- dents. Imports and import Payments All goods not included in the restricted list or sub ject to state trading (see below) may be imported freely (and, with minor exceptions, without an import license) from any coun t ry ;l about 91 per cent of total imports (1967 basis) is liberalized. Some 50 commodities or groups of commodities are included in the restricted list and are subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Most of 1 The liberalized commodities include agricultural commod i t ies that are purchased from the United States under a P.L. 480 agreement. In order to ensure the imp lemen ta t ion of the agreement, the authorized banks are empowered to control the foreign exchange alloca- t ions for purchases of these commodities. 223 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND these goods are admitted, subject to individual license, under global quotas that apply to all countries with which Iceland does not maintain bilateral payments agreements.2 The remaining goods on the restricted list are admitted from the same countries on the basis of individual licenses issued on a discretionary basis ("other licen- sing"). The principal items involved are gasoline, gas oil, and fuel oil; they are imported mainly from Rumania and the U.S.S.R. All goods on the restricted list require individual licenses when imported from bilateral payments agreement countries; licenses in this case are in principle issued in accordance with bilaterally agreed quotas, but in practice they are granted freely upon application for global quota items. Certain imports are only admitted under state trading; these include fertilizers, tobacco, matches, and alcoholic beverages. Furthermore, fresh vegeta- bles and potatoes are imported under the aus- pices of the Agricultural Production Board in accordance with a government authorization. None of these commodities, however, is subject to quantitative restriction. Imports on a collection basis with deferred pay- ment are subject to an advance deposit of 10 per cent. Depending on the category of goods, imports under documentary credits are subject to m in imum advance deposits of 10, 25, or 50 per cent when settled in convertible currency, and to rates of 10 and 25 per cent when settled under bilateral payments agreements. Except for imports of automobiles, a fee of Vi of 1 per cent (m in imum IKr 10.00) is charged as a license fee on the kronur amount of the import license when the license is issued. This fee is not charged on licenses for imports from countries with which Iceland maintains bilateral payments agreements. A fee of 60 per cent (in addition to customs duties) is charged as a license fee on the f.o.b. kronur price of passenger automobiles from all sources (15 per cent for jeep-type vehicles and certain taxis and instruction vehicles and 45 per cent for other taxis and instruction automobiles). Importers of goods not requiring licenses do not have to obtain a foreign exchange permit prior to shipment from abroad, provided that the 2 For these goods, moreover, additional licenses may be applied for outside the global quotas. 224 purchase is payable at sight. On the other hand, the goods will not be cleared by the customs unless payment has already been made or the importer has arranged with an authorized bank for the payment. An importer may either open a letter of credit or obtain a payment certificate which enables him at any time to buy foreign exchange to pay for the goods. For imports that require ind iv idual licenses, foreign exchange is granted in accordance with the terms stipulated in the license. Importers may freely accept suppliers' credit for up to 3 months from the date of arrival at an Icelandic port, except for specified nonessential goods. Credit in excess of 3 months and not exceeding 12 months requires permission by an authorized bank, while foreign credit in excess of 12 months is subject to government authoriza- tion. Payments for invisibles No exchange license is required for govern- ment payments (such as interest and amortization on external loans, expenses of the foreign service, payments to international organizations, payments for postal, telegraphic, and telephone services), for banking commissions, or for bank charges on foreign exchange transactions. Most other outgoing payments are licensed freely on the basis of bona fide documents. The basic allocation for tourist travel is the equivalent of IKr 17,600 (US$200) a person a year and IKr 8,800 for children. Applications for exchange for major repair of ships, repair of means of transport other than ships and aircraft, transac- tions and transfers in connection with direct insurance, and insurance business operations abroad are considered on their merits. The chart- ering of foreign ships usually is not allowed when Icelandic vessels are available for charter on normal terms. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding IKr 100. Nonresident travelers may re-export any foreign exchange they brought in upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All commercial exports require licenses. The ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution shipping documents must be lodged with an authorized bank. Exchange receipts accruing from exports mu st be surrendered w i thout undue delay. Export charges of 4.4-9.7 per cent are levied on the f.o.b. value of all fish products. Proceeds from invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be sur- rendered without undue delay. The owners of Icelandic ships and a ircraft are, with the approval of the authorized banks, permitted to re ta in their foreign exchange receipts from fre igh t, passenger tickets, or other charges, and to use them for operating purposes and for purchases of necessi- ties for the homeward journey of the ship or air- craft. Icelandic insurance companies which rein- sure abroad are permitted to retain foreign exchange earned from premiums and indemnities and to use it to pay reinsurance prem iums, claims, and other regular expenditures of the insurance business in the country where the for- eign exchange was earned. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in up to IKr 1,500 in Icelandic banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding IKr 100. There are no l im i ta t ions on the import of foreign banknotes and coins. Capital All investments by nonresidents in Iceland are subject to ind iv idual approval. The participation by nonresidents in Iceland's joint stock compa- nies may not exceed 49 per cent, and is not allowed in the fishing industry. Nonresident- owned foreign capital entering in the form of for- eign exchange must be surrendered. Nonresidents may be authorized to open nonresident accounts for these funds, in which case their retransfer abroad may be permitted. Residents are obliged to surrender foreign exchange accruing to them on account of capital transactions and payments. Without the approval of the Government, residents may not obtain loans abroad, including loans for financing imports, for periods exceeding one year. Applica- tions for the contracting of financial credits and loans abroad for a period of less than one year are considered on their merits and approved only in exceptional circumstances. The contracting of ICELAND commercial credits abroad for a period of between 3 and 12 mon ths is also approved only in exceptional circumstances, e.g., in connection with the import of industrial raw materials for which the production process is lengthy, the import of construction materials, etc. The author- ities permit the use of suppliers' credit of up to 90 days, except for the financing of a number of specified imports, including motor vehicles for personal use (when imported from convertible currency coun t r ies ) ,3 various household appli- ances, specified foods, various types of clothing, precious and semiprecious stones, watches and clocks, toys, and portland cement. Transfers of capital abroad by residents require approval, wh ich is granted only in exceptional cases. How- ever, direct inves tment abroad for the purpose of assisting the ma rke t ing of Icelandic products is normally permitted. Portfolio investment abroad by residents is prohibited. Outward transfers of inhe r i tances, legacies, and emigrants' assets are considered on their merits and are restricted. Nonresidents may acquire Icelandic securities and other assets with imported fund s; the transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale of these assets and securities requires authorization. Securities held in Iceland by nonresidents must be registered, and all transactions and operations concerning them are subject to licensing. The impo rt and export of securities by residents are subject to the approval of the Central Bank. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acquire gold in Ice- land, subject to certain legal requirements. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry requ ire licenses issued by the Cen- t ral Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1969 January 17. Global import quotas amounting to about IKr 98 million for 1969 were announced. March 1. The permitted length of suppliers' credit for imports of automobiles from Eastern 3 Suppliers' credit for up to three months is allowed on automobiles imported from Eastern European clear- ing countries. 225 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ICELAND European clearing countries was reduced from six to three months. March 7. A reduction in license fees on imports of motor vehicles was announced. The new rates were 60 per cent for private passenger automobiles; 15 per cent for four-wheel drive utility vehicles w i th a wheel base not exceeding 101 inches, and motorcars used full time as taxis or full time for driving instruction; and 45 per cent for motorcars used part time as taxis or part time for driving instruction. Previously, the fee was 90 per cent for private passenger auto- mobiles, 60 per cent on passenger automobiles used pa rt time as taxis or for dr iver tra in ing, and 30 per cent for jeep-type vehicles and taxis. The new fees were retroactive to January 1, 1969. July 1. By virtue of Law No. 41/68 all busi- ness firms in Iceland were made subject to indi- v idual licensing; only Icelandic nationals qualified for a license. (On February 13, 1970 the law was amended to the effect that licenses could be issued irrespective of nationality.) July 1. Imports of perfumes and essences ceased to be state traded. September 12. A new trade agreement with Poland was signed which provided that payments would continue to take place in convertible cur- rencies. December 19. Parliament authorized Iceland's accession to EFTA. 226 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.118489 gram of fine gold per Indian Rupee or Rs 7.50000 = US$1. Transactions in foreign exchange are conducted through authorized dealers, as follows: in ster- ling, at rates fixed by the Foreign Exchange Deal- ers Association in consultation with the Reserve Bank of Ind ia; in other currencies, at rates fixed on the basis of market conditions, subject to spot transactions being done at or between the London market rates for sterling against the other currency concerned. Authorized dealers are per- mitted to cover the ir requirements of non-Sterling Area currencies in the London market and to cover their permitted transactions in certain currencies 1 against sterling, rupees, or any one of these currencies, either spot or fo rwa rd for periods not exceeding six months, with authorized banks in any country outside the Bilateral Account g r o u p .2 On December 31, 1969, market rates for telegraphic transfers on London were <£ stg. 5.5605 buy ing, and <£ stg. 5.5280 selling, per Rs 100 and for telegraphic transfers on New York they were US$13.36 buy ing, and US$13.23 selling, per Rs 100. Since 1959 the Reserve Bank has issued cur- rency notes denominated in Ind ian rupees for cir- culation in the Persian Gulf area. These are known as Gulf notes or Gulf rupees. At present such Gulf notes are in c ircu la t ion only in Muscat and Oman. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Reserve Bank of India in accordance with the general policy laid down by the Government of India in consultation with the Reserve Bank. 1 Aus t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japanese yen, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, H u n- gary, No r th Korea, Poland, R um a n i a, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. There are also special paymen ts arrange- ments with Afghan is tan, the Sudan, and the Un i ted A rab Republic for settlement of the ir trade w i th Ind ia in specified commodities on a balanced basis w i t h in specified ceilings. The State Trad ing Corporation of Ind ia has an arrangement with the Tun is ian agency OCET for ba lanc- ing purchases of specified commodities. Much of the rou t ine work of exchange control is delegated to certain commercial banks, which act as authorized dealers permitted to buy and sell foreign exchange for specified purposes under regu la t ions laid down by the Reserve Bank. Applications to make direct investments in India are reviewed by the Foreign Investment Board. Prescription of Currency Ind ia is a member of the Sterling Area and has an exchange control system similar to that of the Un i ted Kingdom but adapted to suit local requ iremen ts. For prescription of currency pur- poses, countries are divided into three groups: Sterling Area countries, Bilateral Account coun- tries (see footnote 2 ), and the Convertible Account group (a ll other countries). Payments to and from Sterling Area countries may be made in sterling or any Sterling Area currency, except Indian rupees, through the account of a resident of any Sterling Area coun- try except Ind ia, or in Indian rupees through the account of a bank in any Sterling Area country except Ind ia. 3 Payments to and from Bilateral Account countries must be settled in Indian rupees through the appropriate clearing account. Paymen ts to countries in the Convertible Account group may be made in rupees or any other Ster- ling Area currency to the credit of the account of a resident of any country in this group 4 or in any listed currency.5 Receipts from the Converti- ble Account group may be obtained in any listed currency, in rupees from the account of a bank in any coun try in this group, or in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom. 3 The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all remittances to Pakistan. 4 All remittances by nationals of ma in land China to any country outside Ind ia and all remittances to main- land China by any person resident in India, whether for personal or trade purposes, were stopped w i th effect from November 3, 1962. All payments due to ma in land China are required to be credited to blocked rupee accounts. The prior approval of the Reserve Bank is required for all rem i t tances to Rhodesia. 5 The currencies listed for this purpose are those of Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark and the Faroe Islands, French Franc Area, Federal Republic of Ger- many, Italy, Japan, Netherlands Monetary Area, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Liechtenstein, and United States and territories under U.S. sovereignty. 227 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of Bhu tan and Nepal are treated as resident accoun ts .6 Accounts related to all other foreign countries are treated as nonresident accounts. The treatment of these accounts distinguishes between those of banks and of others. The accounts of banks are classified in three groups corresponding to the division of countries for prescription of currency purposes, i.e., Ster- ling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Con- vertible Accounts. These accounts may be cred- ited with paymen ts for imports, interest, dividends, and other authorized purposes, with authorized transfers from the nonresident accounts of private firms or persons, with pro- ceeds from sales of the currency of the country or monetary area of the account holder, and with proceeds from sales of sterling from the appropri- ate nonresident sterling account in the United Kingdom. They may be debited for payments for exports and for other payments to residents of India. These accounts may also be debited for transfers to nonresident accounts of persons and firms (including bank s ), provided that both the transferor and transferee accounts are of coun- tries in the Sterling Area, or when the transferor account is of a country in the Convertible Account group and the transferee account is of a country either in the same group or in the Ster- ling Area. Transfers may be made from Converti- ble Accounts to other Convertible Accounts or to Sterling Area Accounts and between Sterling Area Accounts. All other entries on Sterling Area Accounts, Bilateral Accounts, and Convertible Accounts, with the exception of debits by way of payments to residents, require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Nonresident accounts of private individuals or firms may be credited, without prior approval, for payment of dividends and interest on securities, shares, and deposits; re funds of amounts pre- viously debited or overcharged; proceeds of remittances in appropriate foreign currency or transfers from appropriate nonresident banks' rupee accounts (see section on Prescription of 6 However, residents of Nepal have to obtain their foreign exchange requirements from the Nepal Rastra Bank. 228 Currency, above ); proceeds from checks issued by the Life Insurance Corporation in respect of ma tu r i ty or death claims and surrendered value of policies held by nonresidents, provided that the Corporation certifies that premiums had been received in India in an approved manner and that actuarial reserves are held in India; proceeds of checks, provided that the aggregate of such cred- its dur ing a month does not exceed Rs 2,000 and no individual credit is in excess of Rs 750. Where the nonresident account holder is an Indian national, maturity proceeds of all types of securities as well as sale proceeds of securities sold on the stock exchange may be freely credited to his account. Where the account holder (in the case of a joint account, any of the account hold- ers) is a foreign national, authorized dealers may freely credit sale and maturity proceeds of all types of securities, provided that the securities had been originally purchased either out of pro- ceeds held in the account or by remittance from abroad, and in the case of sale proceeds, that the sale was made at the stock exchange. Ordinary private nonresident accounts, as well as blocked accounts maintained by persons of Indian nation- ality or origin who are resident abroad, with a balance of Rs 50,000 or less on October 1, 1968, may be freely debited for local payments. Other ordinary private nonresident accounts may be debited without prior approval for such items as payments for premiums on life insurance policies of the account holder or his dependents; all taxes due from the account holder in India; contribu- tions to the National Defence Fund, the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, or any govern- ment-sponsored charity; allowances not exceeding Rs 1,000 a month to relatives and dependents in Ind ia; investment in Indian Government securities and in units issued by the Unit Trust of India; and for checks up to Rs 1,000 a week drawn in favor of beneficiaries resident in India or in favor of the account holder while temporarily resident in India. For ordinary nonresident accounts of Indian nationals or persons of Indian origin with balances in excess of Rs 50,000, as well as blocked accounts of such persons, the holders may draw up to Rs 2,000 a week during their stay and, in addition a lump sum of up to Rs 10,000 annually may be debited for any pur- pose during an account holder's stay in India. Other credits and debits require the prior approval ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of the Reserve Bank. Transfers are not normally permitted from nonresident accounts of individu- als or firms to nonresident accounts of banks, unless the amounts originally credited to such accounts could have been transferred abroad. Special regulations cover funds lodged in National Defence Remittance Scheme (Special) Accounts representing rupee proceeds of inward remittances for the account of nonresidents and rupee proceeds from sales of certificates issued under the Scheme, which expired on May 31, 1966. Balances in such accounts cannot be remit- ted abroad; they may, however, subject in some cases to prior approval by the Reserve Bank, be invested domestically or be used for other expenditures in India. Withdrawals from such accounts with balances of Rs 50,000 or less held by persons of Indian nationality or origin may be made freely for any payments in India. There are also blocked accounts, to which are credited capital proceeds and payments that are due to nonresidents and may not be remitted abroad. Assets in India of Indian emigrants in excess of the amount allowed to be remitted are also required to be credited to blocked accounts. Balances in blocked accounts may be placed on fixed deposit or invested in approved Indian rupee securities (including approved shares quoted on the stock exchange); the income derived from such investments can be remitted to the owner's country of residence in accordance with the special instructions issued by the Reserve Bank at the time of opening a blocked account. For Indian nationals who were granted emigration facilities prior to Janua ry 1, 1963, net income from investments financed from blocked accounts is allowed to be remitted in full. No income of any kind is remittable, however, to persons who obtained emigration facilities after April 30, 1968. imports and import Payments Specified raw materials required by certain export industries and other importers may be freely imported under an open general license. Practically all other imports require individual licenses. Imports of specified raw materials, spare parts, and components required by key and prior- ity industries, including small-scale industries, and INDIA by units in other industries that had an export performance of 10 per cent or more of their pro- duction during the previous year, are licensed upon application, on a continuing basis, provided that the licenses already issued to them have not remained unutilized beyond a certain extent. Licenses to actual users for imports of raw mate- rials, components, and spare parts are not granted wholly against free foreign exchange (except for certain exporters), but partly against tied-aid credits from particular countries. Individ- ual licenses may be issued (1) ad hoc, (2) on the basis of quotas allocated to established importers in accordance with their imports in a base period, (3) to actual users on the basis of their requirements, and (4) to registered export- ers in accordance with the import content of their exports. Generally, licenses may be used to import from any country except Portugal, Rhode- sia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and Tibet; these countries are prohibited.7 imports from Such licenses are referred to as General Currency Area Licenses, as distinct from Specific Licenses, which are issued for capital goods and other sup- plies against tied aid and are valid only for imports from the country or countries providing the assistance. Single Country Licenses are issued for certain imports from countries with which bilateral trade or payments agreements are in force. Licensing policy generally accords priority to foodstuffs, fertilizers, capital goods, raw mate- rials, and other industrial requirements, while the import of other items is severely limited or pro- hibited. At the beginning of each financial year, an announcement on import control policy is made in the form of a Red Book, which gives in detail the policy for various categories of import- ers. The import program for the period ending March 31, 1970 contains a prohibited list8 of 316 commodities and a list of 129 items that are licensed on a "restricted basis," i.e., in minor amounts and only if comparable domestic prod- ucts either are not available or are inadequate. Licensing is in most cases on an annual basis. 7 The importation from Nepal of commodities origi- na t ing in countries other than Nepal or India also is prohibited. 8 Imports of certain prohibited items are permitted either ad hoc or under the import replenishment scheme. 229 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA Licenses in excess of Rs 10,000 issued to estab- lished importers are subject to the condition that remittances must not exceed 50 per cent of the amount of the license in the first six months of the validity period of the license. This condition is not imposed on actual users, to whom licenses are issued to cover their six months' or annual requirements. There are special procedures appli- cable to imports of capital goods, of heavy elec- trical plant, and of goods imported to fulfill gov- ernment contracts and for irrigation projects. Favored treatment in allocating foreign exchange for imports of capital goods and equipment is given to 26 "key" industries and 48 "priority" industries. An import replenishment scheme enables registered exporters to obtain specified raw materials and other items needed for their export production; these commodities include cer- tain items whose import otherwise is banned. In licensing imports of a capital na ture, their essen- tiality, the ir potential for earning or saving for- eign exchange, and the availability of medium- term or long-term credits for financing such imports are taken into account. Import licenses for machine tools and other capital goods valued at more than Rs 750,000 are not granted until Indian producers have been publicly invited to supply them; licenses are only issued if offers by domestic producers are disproportionately expen- sive or unacceptable for other reasons, or when no offers are received within 45 days. For certain types of steel castings and forgings, this policy applies to all orders of more than Rs 50,000. A special fee is levied on a voluntary basis on imports of long-staple cotton. Where a valid import license is held, the required exchange is released by an authorized bank on presentation of the exchange control copy of the license. License holders may make payments by opening letters of credit or by remit- ting against sight drafts. Advance remittances before shipping documents can be submitted are not normally allowed; but in special cases, e.g., imports of machinery and capital goods, where deposits have to be made with overseas manufac- turers, the Reserve Bank grants special authoriza- tion for advance payment for a part of the value of the import. Certain commodities, including foodgrains, cer- tain oils and fats, and most fertilizers, are only 230 imported by the Government or two state trading enterprises —the State Trading Corporation (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corporation. Payments for invisibles In general, payments abroad for invisibles require approval. Foreign exchange is granted freely for a few such payments, mainly for expen- ses incidental to trade transactions and transfers of recurring contractual obligations. Premiums on insurance policies issued in for- eign currency to residents may be paid in rupees or in the currency in which the policy is issued; but Ind ian residents are prohibited from taking out l ife insurance policies in foreign currencies. Branches of foreign banks are not allowed to transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbank ing assets. Otherwise there are no restrictions on the remittance of profits, divi- dends, and interest to nonresident beneficiaries (except any income accruing to beneficiaries of the National Defence Remittance Scheme), pro- vided that all current tax and other liabilities in Ind ia have been cleared, except where such repa- triation rights have been voluntarily surrendered. However, remittances to Indian nationals who were granted exchange facilities for emigration on or a f ter Janua ry 1, 1963 but before April 30, 1968 of dividends and interest on shares, securi- ties, and deposits held in India are subject to an over-all limit of Rs 20,000 a year and to any special directions given to the person concerned when he was granted emigration facilities. For persons who have been granted emigration facili- ties after April 30, 1968 on grounds of hardship no remittance of income is allowed. Profit remit- tances by new branches of foreign firms estab- lished on or after March 1, 1969 require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. Foreign employees are permitted to make rea- sonable remittances to their own countries to pay insurance premiums, for the support of their fami- lies, and for other expenses. Authorized dealers may allow such remittances by foreign nationals, other than nationals of Pakistan, to the extent of 50 per cent of net income, subject to a maximum of Rs 2,360 a month, or up to the foreign cur- rency amount of the monthly average of remit- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tances made by the person concerned during the last 12 months prior to June 6, 1966. Requests for the remittance of higher amounts are consid- ered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Applications for foreign exchange for travel or education abroad are considered on an individual basis; no exchange is granted for tourist travel. Travel agents and airlines and steamship compa- nies are not permitted to book passages abroad for persons resident in Ind ia (other than foreign nationals temporarily resident in Ind ia) unless the traveler has been granted travel exchange by the Reserve Bank or has been specifically granted permission by the Reserve Bank to book his passage.9 The export of Indian currency notes and coins except to Nepal is, in general, prohibited. The export to Nepal of Ind ian currency notes in denominations of Rs 100 or higher is also pro- hibited. However, deck passengers to Burma, Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa and passengers to Ceylon or Pakistan may take with them Rs 20 a person at any one time in Ind ian notes (w i th in the l im it of Rs 30 for Indian and foreign currency notes combined). Residents may take out foreign notes and coins up to <£3 10s. Od. or its equ iva lent a person; authorized money-changers at airports and sea- ports are permitted to sell foreign currency notes up to a value of £3 10s. Od. or its equivalent a person to all passengers, whether Indian or for- eign, but not to deck passengers or travelers pro- ceeding to Ceylon, Pakistan, Nepal, or Bhu tan, or to transit passengers or passengers holding open-dated tickets (including re turn tickets) issued outside India. Travelers to Pakistan may take Pakistan rupees in notes or coins up to the equivalent of Rs 30 a person; travelers to Ceylon may take £1 10s. Od. a person. Nonresidents may take out the foreign notes and coins which 9 Prior permission to book passages abroad is not necessary, however, for the fo l low ing: deck passengers to or f rom Burma, Ceylon, Malaysia, Singapore, Paki- stan, Persian Gu lf ports, or East Afr ica; UN staff mem- bers and their families whose tickets are purchased by or on instructions from UN agencies; staff of a ir l ine and steamer companies traveling on official d u t y; travel between India and Pakistan by persons ho ld ing restricted travel documents issued by the High Commission for Pak i s tan in Ind ia or Ind ia -Pak is tan passports; air travel between Mad ra s /T i ruch i rapa l l i /T r ivand rum and Colom- bo, Ceylon; and travel between Nepal and Ind ia. INDIA they declared on entry, less the amounts sold to authorized dealers in India. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are required for only a few items, and most commodities may be exported w i thout a license. Most of the controlled com- modities are licensed freely to all shippers; a few may be exported through established shippers; and a few commodities are subject to export quotas. Exports of sugar are confined to sales to the United Kingdom and the United States under the Commonwealth Sugar Agreement and the U.S.-India Sugar Agreement. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, South Africa, South-West Africa, and Tibet are prohibited. Exchange control is exercised over the pro- ceeds of exports to countries other than Bhutan and Nepal. An exporter must declare that the full export proceeds will be received in and dealt w i th in accordance with the prescription of cur- rency regulations. Foreign exchange holdings, including the pro- ceeds of exports, in most currencies 10 must be offered for sale against rupees to an authorized dealer, unless the holder has been authorized by the Reserve Bank to retain them, or the holdings are the balance on Ju ly 8, 1947 in a sterling account held by h im, or he is not domiciled in Ind ia and the funds do not represent the proceeds of an export. Export proceeds must be surren- dered w i th in six mon ths of shipment or, if the goods are sold to the United Kingdom and covered by the U.K. import deposit scheme, within 240 days of shipment. Some major exports, including tea and jute manu fac tu res, are subject to export duties. Exports of mica, tobacco, and lac are subject to m in imum prices. Some exports receive cash assistance; they are mainly new manufactures, such as engineering goods. The cotton textile indus t ry receives grants-in-aid. An import replen- ishment scheme provides certain import licensing 10 The list includes Canadian dollars, U.S. dollars, most Western European currencies ( inc lud ing s ter l ing), Djibouti francs, East African shillings, Hong Kong dollars, Iraqi dinars, Malaysian dollars, Moroccan dir- hams, Panamanian balboas, Philippine pesos, Tunisian dinars, and Vietnamese piastres. 231 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA facilities for producers of manufactured goods for export. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles in certain currencies (see footnote 10) must be surrendered. The import of Indian currency notes and coins is, in general, prohibited. However, deck passen- gers from Malaysia, Singapore, Persian Gulf ports, and East Africa, and travelers from Ceylon and Pakistan, may import into India Rs 20 a person against presentation of evidence that they previously had exported this amount from India. Persons coming to India from Burma are allowed to bring in Indian currency notes up to a value of Rs 50 for an adult and Rs 25 for a child between the ages of 12 and 18. Travelers from Nepal may bring in up to Rs 75 a person. Foreign currency notes may be brought into India without limit, provided that a declaration of the total amount brought in is made to the customs authorities upon arrival. Persons holding foreign currency notes may sell them to any authorized dealer in foreign exchange or to an authorized money- changer. Capital The inward movement of capital is practically free, except when it is to form part of an invest- ment requiring the prior approval of the Indian Government. All applications for foreign direct investments in India are screened by the Foreign Investment Board. Banks in India may borrow freely from their branches and correspondents abroad, provided that borrowings in excess of Rs 2 million are utilized for the purchase of rupees from the Reserve Bank to finance their normal business operations in India and that they are repaid only when the debtor bank has no out- standing borrowings in India from the Reserve Bank or any other bank. Foreign investments once admitted are eligible for the same treatment that Indian enterprises receive. Repatriation of capital owned by persons residing in Sterling Area countries other than Pakistan, and by resi- dents of Denmark, Norway, or Sweden, is author- ized freely. Capital invested in approved projects after January 1, 1950 by residents of other coun- tries, including capital appreciation on the origi- 232 nal investment, may be repatriated at any time. The proceeds from liquidated foreign investments not eligible for repatriation are blocked (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, above). Local borrowing by foreign-controlled corporate bodies is restricted. Prior permission by the Reserve Bank is required for foreign-controlled partner- ship firms or corporate bodies to accept appoint- ment as agents or technical advisors. Indian nationals (including persons domiciled in India) are not normally granted any foreign exchange facilities for emigration purposes. In exceptional cases of hardship, foreign exchange may be released up to a limit of the equivalent of Rs 25,000 in one lump sum at the time of emi- gration; the remainder of the emigrant's assets and income are blocked and no further remit- tances, including pensions, if any, are allowed. Foreign nationals who are resident but not domi- ciled in India are permitted at the time of their retirement to transfer to their own country the proceeds from the sale of their investments, sub- ject to a limit of Rs 75,000 at the time of retire- ment and the remainder in annual installments not exceeding Rs 20,000 per annum, provided that the shares and securities concerned are quoted on recognized stock exchanges in India; in addition, they may transfer all their current remittable assets in India. There are no restrictions on the import into India of Indian or foreign securities. The export of securities and their transfer to nonresidents require approval, as does also the sale, transfer, or other disposal of foreign securities. Persons resident in India are permitted to hold foreign securities that have been acquired in a manner not involving a breach of the Indian exchange regulations; residents, other than foreign nation- als, who are private persons are not normally permitted to purchase securities outside India. Gold In India, detailed control is exercised over the manufacture, acquisition, possession, and disposal of gold in various forms through an organization headed by a Gold Control Administrator. There is a total ban on private possession of primary gold. Although there is no ban on possession of finished articles of gold (including coins) pre- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution viously declared, there is restriction on their manu fac tu re and fresh acquisition. There is no restriction on the manu fac tu re, acquisition, dis- posal, or possession of gold ornaments, except that holdings of such o rnamen ts (which may be of any p u r i t y) above specified limits are subject to the requirement of declaration. The consump- tion of gold by indus tr ial users is regulated through permits and authorizations. Control is exercised over the dealers and goldsmiths through a system of licensing. Gold refining has been brought under state management. The Govern- ment M int has been licensed under the Gold Control Law to accept tenders of gold for pur- poses of ref in ing and conversion into standard gold bars, for which strict specifications as to fine- ness, weight, dimensions, and markings are pre- scribed. Forward trading in gold or silver is prohibited. Imports of gold in any form by residents other than the mone tary authorities require special authorization from the Reserve Bank and are not normally perm i t ted; established jewelers, how- ever, are from time to time granted licenses to import gold for the manu fac tu re of jewelry for export in their workshops. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry produced in India for export and jewelry consti- tuting the personal effects of a traveler are pro- hibited unless the export is made by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities. The export of gold ornaments and jewelry to the U.S.S.R. and other Eastern European countries is prohibited. Changes during 1969 During the year, there were a considerable number of changes in export duties and in rates of cash assistance on exports. Certain additional items were brought under the import replenish- ment scheme. Imports of goods available from domestic suppliers were fur ther restricted. The Government announced that imports of industrial raw materials would increasingly be channeled through the state trading agencies. January 3. In a designated area extending 50 kilometers inland from the Western coast of India, persons possessing silver bullion and coins exceeding Rs 15,000 in value were required to declare such holdings. In addition, certain formali- INDIA ties covering transactions in declared silver hold- ings and their transportation were introduced. January 3. New priorities were established for the allocation of foreign exchange to industrial enterprises. For 26 "key" industries and 48 "priority" industries, favored treatment would be given in allocations for capital goods and other equipment. January 7. Fifty per cent of the invoice value of each shipment of Indian goods to the United Kingdom covered by that country's import deposit scheme could be repatriated and surren- dered 240 days (rather than the usual six months) after shipment. January 10. Exports of gold ornaments and jewelry to the U.S.S.R. and other Eastern Euro- pean countries were banned. January 25. Procedures to be applied by the newly created Foreign Investment Board were published; these procedures aimed at expediting the screening of joint ven ture proposals. Each application was to be processed within three months. Lists were published of industries in which collaboration would be allowed, in which only foreign technical collaboration but not investment would be permitted, and in which no foreign participation would be approved. February 28. The budget for 1969/70 elimi- nated export duties on degreased raw wool, wool sacks, and cotton bagging, while those on certain other ju te manu fac tu res were reduced. However, excise duties on hessian and other ju te manufac- tures were raised. Export duties on certain grades of mica were halved, while those on tea were lowered substantially. The cotton and ju te indus- tries would be treated as priority industries. Im- port duties were raised on lubricating oils, motor- cars, dried fruits, and seedless dates. March 1. The remittance of profits by new branches of foreign firms established on or after March 1, 1969 required the prior approval of the Reserve Bank. March 1. Branches of foreign banks could no longer transfer abroad any profits arising from the sale of nonbanking assets. March 10. A trilateral trade arrangement was signed by the STC and commercial organizations 233 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDIA in Bulgaria and Tunisia. Payments by all three countries under this arrangement would take place in nonconvertible Ind ian rupees. March 31. The import policy for 1969/70 was announced. It was essentially along the same lines as that for 1968/69. Among the changes was the provision for the exclusive importation by the State Trading Corporation of six addi- tional commodities: copra, mutton tallow, soy- bean oil, palm oil, corkwood, and sodium nitrate; imports of natural rubber, sulphur products, vitamins, and antibiotics would normally have to be made through the intermediary of the STC. Moreover, 316 items were added to the list of banned imports and special conditions (absence or inadequacy of local production) were attached to 129 items whose import by actual users pre- viously was allowed without such restrictions. The quotas of established importers were reduced for 19 items. Established export houses would henceforth be allowed also to import and to build stocks of certain raw materials intended for essential industries. Long-term export contracts could be registered in order to ensure that they would not be adversely affected by changes in the annual foreign trade policy. April 1. The margin of the special tariff con- cessions provided for by the Trade Expansion and Economic Cooperation Agreement with Yugoslavia and the United Arab Republic of December 23, 1967 was increased from 40 per cent to 50 per cent. April 3. All varieties of raw wool were exempted from export duty. August 29. The Gold Control Act of 1968 was amended following a Supreme Court decision that invalidated certain provisions of a procedural rather than a substantive nature. September 2. It was announced that imports of raw cotton and its distribution to textile mills would be taken over by the Government from September 1, 1970. October 1. The tariff preferences under the agreement w i th Yugoslavia and the United Arab Republic were extended to 57 additional import items. Previously, such preferences applied to 77 items. December 10. The export du ty on ju te carpet- back ing cloth was reduced by Rs 300 a ton. In addition, the ju te industry lowered the export price of such cloth by Rs 300 a ton; this price had already been reduced by Rs 400 a ton in October. 234 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA* Exchange Rale System No par value for the Indonesian Rupiah has been established w i th the Fund. There are two exchange marke ts in both of which the exchange rates normally fluctuate, though in practice each has been stable for some time. The principal market is the BE (Bonus Export) market through which the greater portion of trade trans- actions is conducted. It is supplied ma in ly from the share of export proceeds that must be sold by exporters to foreign exchange banks, and then transferred (a f ter payment of taxes in foreign exchange by the exporter) to the head offices of banks in D jaka r ta for sale in the Bourse; from part of the foreign aid granted to Indonesia; from the central government export tax; from ADO1 proceeds which the regional authorities ordinarily sell in this ma rket for their rupiah needs; and from foreign capital brought in for local financing of approved investment projects. On December 31, 1969 BE exchange was quoted at Rp 326 per US$1. On the demand side, the BE ma rket is used for settling the greater part of private imports, all government imports and service pay- ments, most transfers associated w i th foreign investment, and specified invisibles. Private t rad- ing of BE exchange is prohibited. The other exchange ma rket is the DP ma rke t, in which Complementary Foreign Exchange (Devisa Pelengkap) is negotiated. It is intended primarily for receipts and payments in respect of invisibles and pr iva te capital, but it may be used to pay for private imports, including those that have access to the BE ma rke t. On December 31, 1969 the DP ma rket rate was Rp 379 per US$1. Bank Indonesia intervenes to m a in t a in orderly condi- tions in the exchange markets. Any surplus or defi- cit in the Bank's operations is covered by the Foreign Exchange Fund (FEF) of Bank Indone- sia. The FEF itself receives directly foreign * On April 17, 1970 an exchange reform took place. The two exchange marke ts were merged at Rp 378 per US$1, a l though the BE rate for sales of aid f u n ds pro- vided by foreign governmen ts rema ined at Rp 326 per US$1. An exchange re fo rm also was in t roduced in West Irian, the new rates being IBRp 1 = Rp 18.9 and I B R p 20 ~ US$1. 1 ADO (Allokasi Devisa Daerah Otomalis) is the 10 per cent exchange tax on exports allocated to the regions of Indonesia according to port of sh ipmen t. exchange surrendered by the foreign oil compa- nies for payment of taxes. The FEF also provides foreign exchange used for debt service by the Government. The BE rate is applied to these transactions. In the D jakar ta Bourse three calls for BE exchange are conducted each week under the management of Bank Indonesia. Bidding for exchange in the call is restricted to the foreign exchange banks. The authorities are committed to deal w i th any willing buyer or seller at the going rate. Representatives of the foreign exchange banks no t i fy Bank Indonesia of their supply to the ma rket and each presents a bid for the total of his bank's requirements at a particular rate. Bank Indonesia clears the market at the interven- tion rate. There are daily transactions in DP exchange which are effected in the Bourse by representatives of the foreign exchange banks and certain exchange brokers. Bank Indonesia is not obliged to clear the market af ter the bank repre- sentatives and brokers have concluded trading. Rates for DP exchange transactions outside the Bourse are guided by the rates quoted by Bank Indonesia in the Bourse. In addition to the above, the following rates exist (see Table of Exchange Rates, be low ). An exchange rate based on the BE rate applies to transactions of the oil companies. For administrative reasons it is only changed from time to time; on December 31, 1969, the rate was Rp 300 per US$1, buying and selling.2 Two additional buying rates result from a 10 per cent exchange tax on all exports other than petroleum, and from an additional exchange tax of 5 per cent levied on eight major export commodities (excluding pe tro leum). The 10 per cent exchange tax is allocated as "ADO foreign exchange" to the regions of Indonesia. Proceeds f rom the 5 per cent exchange tax accrue to the Government. Sabang is entirely outside the Indonesian exchange control system, but the Indonesian rup iah is legal tender there. It is not legal tender in West Irian, which is not entirely outside the Indonesian exchange control system but has a -T he rate was adjusted J a n u a ry 1, 1970. to Rp 326 per US$1 on 235 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA currency of its own and a measure of autonomy in respect of trade and exchange control. The exchange rate between the Irian Barat rupiah and the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 1 • •= Rp 10. Pay- ments from West Irian to other parts of Indone- sia for nontrade transactions are subject to a tax of 5 per cent; this tax is also applied to Irian Barat banknotes brought in by travelers from West Irian to other parts of Indonesia. The exchange rate of the Irian Barat rupiah in terms of currencies other than the Indonesian rupiah is IBRp 1 = US$0.10 or the equivalent for other currencies. Exchange transactions between West Irian and foreign countries may also be effected through the BE and DP markets in Djakarta at effective cross rates of IBRp 32.6 per US$1 or IBRp 37.9 per US$1, respectively. Administration of Control The implementation of exchange and trade control is entrusted to Bank Indonesia, the Minis- try of Trade, the Ministry of Finance, authorized foreign exchange banks, and the customs authori- ties. Exchange control is administered by Bank Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected through the authorized banks. Generally, pay- ments are made in convertible currencies, but set- tlements with countries with which Indonesia has bilateral payments arrangements must in principle be made through special clearing accounts.3 Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between resident and nonresident accounts, as the 1964 Foreign Exchange Act recognizes only foreign nationals and Indonesian nationals. There are no restric- tions on the opening by foreign nationals of accounts in Indonesia in rupiahs or foreign curren- cies. 3 Indonesia ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements with mainland China and Poland. An agreement w i th the United Arab Republic has not been imp lemen ted. Bilateral accounts are maintained w i th Pakistan and certain Eastern European countries pending settlement of balances outstanding at the time of te rm ina t ion of the respective bilateral agreements. 236 Imports and Import Payments There is a registry of authorized importers and an initial deposit is required for registration. Since October 31, 1968, only Indonesian nation- als could obtain an importer's license, but certain established foreign firms have been enabled to retain their licenses and new foreign investors can obtain an importer's license restricted to the import of materials required for their own proj- ects. No licenses are required for imports. Letters of credit are required for all imports in the BE list. Other imports, with the exception of capital equipment constituting part of a direct foreign investment, imports by diplomats and foreign experts under contract to the Government, and goods priced at less than US$300 f.o.b. brought in by travelers, can be effected only after an import certificate has been submitted to a foreign exchange bank and to the customs by a registered importer. Imports from Angola, mainland China, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited and certain import items are excluded on social grounds. Payments in BE exchange for imports consigned from or originating in Hong Kong and Singapore can be made only after a surveyor's report has been submitted to the foreign exchange bank that is to open the letter of credit. Imports are classified in three categories: ( 1) the BE list, which in turn is divided into three subgroups ("most essential," "essential," and "less essential"); (2) DP items comprising all permissible imports not on the BE list; and (3) the "negative" list of prohibited imports (textiles with a batik design and certain automo- bile tires and tubes). Aid funds may be used only to finance items included in the "most essential" and "essential" subgroups of the BE list, and are usually restricted to purchases in the donor coun- try. All items on the BE list may be financed through either the BE or the DP market. DP items may only be financed through the DP market. Imports paid for with DP exchange require registration and may be settled by letters of credit. Letters of credit must be opened not later than ten days after the purchase of BE exchange in the Djakarta Bourse; otherwise, the exchange must be surrendered to Bank Indonesia and a penalty is imposed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Import duties are mostly calculated on the c.i.f. value of imports at a rate that is adjusted monthly in line with the BE market rate. On December 31, 1969, that rate was Rp 325 per US$1. Import duties for all goods in the BE list are paid when the goods are cleared through cus- toms. Import surcharges of up to 400 per cent of the duty rate are applied to a number of items subject to import duty at a rate of 30 per cent or more. Excess profit levies ranging from Rp 10 to Rp 200 per U.S. dollar are applied to imports of goods competing with national products and to certain other items bearing low rates of import du ty. An additional import fee of V4 of 1 per cent (BLLD fee) 4 is levied on all items other than a few highly essential commodities, such as rice, fertilizer, and newsprint; it is calculated at the rate applicable for the calculation of import duty, i.e., at Rp 325 per US$1. Sales taxes of 5, 10, 20, and 50 per cent of the assumed selling price to be used by the importer are levied on most imports. Exemptions from import duties and sales tax are granted on imports of capital equipment and new materials for foreign invest- ment where the imports are financed from the importer's own foreign exchange resources. A deposit of 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value must be lodged with Bank Indonesia when a letter of credit is opened in respect of government imports. Letters of credit for nongovernment imports cannot be opened until the importer has purchased the foreign exchange. Payments for Invisibles Open general licenses have been issued to the authorized banks enabling them to purchase exchange in the BE market to make payment for specified invisibles (e.g., those connected with imports of goods on the BE list) without further authorization. Prior approval is required for all other invisibles financed through the BE market, but payments for all invisibles may be made through the DP market without prior approval. A fee of l/2 of 1 per cent (BLLD fee) is payable on payments for invisibles in BE exchange. Travelers may freely take out Rp 2,500 in Indonesian banknotes and any amount of foreign banknotes. 4 Bureau of Foreign Exchange Transactions. INDONESIA Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Angola, mainland China, Rho- desia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports of certain categories of unprocessed or low- quality rubber are prohibited. Except for a few commodities, such as soybeans, tapioca, cassava, and corn, which may be exported only with the approval of the regional authorities, exports are permitted without license. Exports may be made by registered private firms as well as by state trading firms. All exporters except the petroleum companies, the state trading firms (for tin), and certain for- eign mining companies must require their buyers to open a bank letter of credit covering the "f.o.b.- net" value of the goods to be exported. The "f.o.b.-net" value is fixed in accordance with check prices which are announced for each of the principal export commodities (other than petro- l eum) at regular intervals. It also represents the surrender value. Hence, upon shipment of the goods, i.e., upon receipt of the export documents by the foreign exchange bank, exporters are cred- ited in local currency with a certain portion, depending on the commodity concerned, of the full export proceeds calculated in accordance with the "f.o.b.-net" price at the current BE rate. Not included in the "f.o.b.-net" price are any amounts needed to cover normal commercial expenses, such as commissions, rebates, and refunds. That part of the actual export proceeds in excess of the "f.o.b.- net" price is referred to as overprice; this is regarded as DP exchange and may be retained by the exporter in the form of foreign exchange. For the purpose of determining the counterpart in local currency to be credited to the exporter, exports (excluding petroleum) are grouped into two categories. Category A (coffee, copra, palm oil, palm kernels, pepper, rubber, tin, and tobacco leaves) is subject to an exchange tax of 10 per cent, which is allotted as "ADO exchange" to the government of the region from which the commodities are shipped, and to an additional exchange tax of 5 per cent that accrues to the Central Government. Category B includes all other export products (except petroleum, gold, and s i lver); these are subject only to the 10 per cent exchange tax. Both taxes are calculated on the "f.o.b.-net" price. 237 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Proceeds from petroleum exports of foreign oil companies operating within the scope of the Con- tract of Work Law of 1963 may be retained abroad. Rup iahs needed by those companies to cover local expenditure, such as operating costs and taxes, are exchanged at the rate of Rp 326 per US$1. A cess is levied on exports of certain agricul- tu ral products and on interisland trading in the same products. The tax is administered by the customs authorities at the port of shipment. The proceeds are used to improve the efficiency of production and ma rke t ing of these commodities. Otherwise, no customs duties are levied on exports. Agricultural commodities produced in border regions may be exported to Malaysia and Singa- pore in exchange for specified consumer goods, capital equipment, and raw materials. In this "border-crossing trade," the value of an import or export shipment must not exceed M$600. Proceeds from invisibles Services provided by Indonesian residents to foreign countries or foreign nationals must gener- ally be paid for in foreign exchange. All receipts from transactions in invisibles, inc lud ing inward remittances by diplomatic missions, are settled in the DP market. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but only Rp 2,500 in domestic banknotes. Capital The Foreign Investment Law of Janua ry 10, 1967 provides various incentives for the partici- pation of foreign capital in Indonesian enterprises except those in a few specified fields of activity (including harbors, electric power, shipping, rail- roads, and commerce). The Investment Law specifies a system of investment priorities; it assigns the highest priority to enterprises generat- ing foreign exchange, followed by those that save foreign exchange. Enterprises that are wholly or largely operated in Indonesia as separate business units must be incorporated under Indonesian law and must have their domicile in Indonesia. The operation permit for foreign investment is usually 238 valid for a max imum of 30 years. Among the inducements offered are exemption from, or reduction in, corporate and dividend taxes for a certain number of years, provided that the sum involved is not less than US$2.5 million. Joint ventures by Indonesians and foreigners may bene- fit from similar tax incentives even if the invest- ment involved is less than US$2.5 million. Other inducemen ts include exemption from customs duties, accelerated depreciation allowances, and permission to offset initial losses against subse- quent profits; foreign investments with a mini- mum capital of US$15 million may receive addi- tional benefits. Transfer of profits (after settlement of taxes and financial obligations in Indones ia) is guaranteed at the BE rate provided that the incoming capital used for domestic financing was initially converted at the BE rate. Guarantees of t rans fer are also given in respect of depreciation allowances and transfers relating to expenses connected with the employment of foreign persons in Indonesia. Transfers of profits and depreciation allowances linked with invest- ment in the services sector are effected at the DP rate. However, as long as investments benefit f rom tax relief, capital repatriation is not permit- ted. The law implicitly provides guarantees against nationalization of foreign investments. Equitable and mu tua l ly satisfactory arrangements are stipu- lated for resolving the issue of just compensation in the event of nationalization of any specific for- eign investment. A special regime applies to enterprises pre- viously nationalized but now restored to the origi- nal owners. Such enterprises are allowed tax holi- days for a period of three years on new capital in foreign currency brought in within the context of rehabilitation and expansion programs that have been approved by the Government. They are also allowed to transfer at the BE rate 50 per cent of the ir profits after taxes for a period of three years, and the full amount of such profits there- after. The transfer of proceeds from the sale of the assets of those restored enterprises which ceased operations may take place with effect from Janu- ary 1, 1972 at the rate of one fifth of the pro- ceeds each year, with a full guarantee as to their value in foreign currency. The transfer of pro- ceeds from the sale of assets of enterprises whose period of operation has expired or whose opera- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tions have been terminated by the Government is allowed at the rate of one fifth a year effective from the time of the sale of assets. This transfer is also guaranteed as to its value in foreign cur- rency. A Debt Investment Conversion Scheme (DIGS) exists for the benef it of foreign creditors holding nonguaranteed claims against Indonesia. Private creditors willing to accept the terms of the Scheme and prepared to make investments in Indonesia are paid in rup iahs at the prevailing BE market rate in settlement of their claims. These rup iahs are transferable to other potential investors in Indonesia, but only the original credi- tor's DIGS rup iahs may be used, in the creditor's own projects that have been approved under the Foreign Inves tment Law of 1967, for the pur- chase in the BE ma rket of foreign exchange for the import of equ ipment and raw materials neces- sary for the establishment and operation of those projects; the arrangement is limited to projects approved before September 5, 1968. There are no l im i ta t ions on the remittance to Indonesia of capital in the form of foreign exchange or in commodities provided that no retransfer of profits and/or amortization is required other than by using DP exchange. For INDONESIA purposes of registration under the Foreign Exchange Act, 1964, Indonesian nationals, indi- v idua ls as well as corporate bodies, are required to lodge their Indonesian securities issued by Indonesian corporate bodies before December 29, 1949, and their foreign securities in a custody account in the name of a foreign exchange state b ank. Foreign nationals are required to deposit the ir Indonesian securities with a foreign exchange bank in Indonesia while their foreign securities have to be deposited with one of the foreign exchange banks or a correspondent abroad. Cold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold and gold coins in Indonesia. Exports of gold and gold coins (other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler), unless made by or on beha lf of the monetary authorities, require licenses issued by Bank Indonesia. Export licen- ses are rarely granted. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and are restricted to imports of gold coins and gold bars by licensed goldsmiths. Import payments must be made with DP exchange and imports are subject to an excess profit levy of Rp 25 per US$1. 239 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution INDONESIA Table of Exchange Rales (as at December 31, 1969) (rupiahs per U.S. dollar) Buying 277 (BE Rate5 less 5% Exchange Tax and 10% ADO6) Eight major export commodities. 7» 8 293 (BE Rate less 10% ADO«> *) Other export commodities (excluding petroleum). 300 (Oil Rate,9 Adjusted from Time to Time) Rate applied to transactions of oil companies. 326 (BE Rate, Fluctuating) Purchase of that part of export proceeds that must be surrendered to a foreign exchange bank. Capital transfers associated with approved for- eign investment. 379 (DP Rate,™ Fluctuating) All receipts from invisibles, including diplomatic expenditures, and repatriated capital. Purchase of that part of export proceeds that need not be surrendered ( "overprice" ). Selling 300 (Oil Rate,9 Adjusted i rom Time to Time) Rate applied to transactions of oil companies. 326 (BE Rate, Fluctuating) All government imports and aid imports. Imports on BE list when financed with BE exchange. In- visibles paid for with exchange made available by the Foreign Exchange Fund. 379 (DP Rate,10 Fluctuating) Imports on the DP list. (This rate may also be used for imports on the BE list.) Other invisibles. Changes during 1969 January 1. For tax purposes foreigners employed in Indonesia for more than three months became subject to tax on their Indonesian income. Nonresidents paid in foreign currency must pay tax on such income also in foreign cur- rency; the conversion of foreign currency income into rupiahs was calculated at Rp 94.5 per U.S. dollar. January 16. Travelers could freely take out any amount of foreign banknotes. January 17. Importers of a wide range of essential goods were permitted to postpone for upward of two months payment of duties, sur- charges, or import levies. Importers were required to provide a bank guarantee for the amount due and to pay an administrative fee of 3 per cent a month. February 17. The import ban was lifted on automobiles valued at over US$2,000 f.o.b., tele- vision sets with 21-inch or larger screens, and deluxe radio-record player consoles. March 6. The tax rates were published for the export cess imposed on October 17, 1968 on cer- tain agricultural products. April 5. Letter of credit procedures relating to imports by West Irian were simplified. April 7. Rules for compensation for national- ized non-Dutch foreign properties were announced. April 10. All trade with Angola, Rhodesia, and South Africa was prohibited. April 22. The prohibition on tobacco products was lifted. imports of April 30. The requirement for prepayment of import duties on Category B and C imports of the BE list was canceled. April 30. The Ministry of Trade was empow- ered to establish minimum "f.o.b.-net" prices for exports in Category B. May 6. An additional list for BE imports into West Irian was issued. May 30. The bilateral payments agreement with the Philippines was terminated. 5 BE stands for "Bonus Export." 6 Exchange allotted to regions according to port of shipment of exports. 7 Coffee, copra, palm oil, palm kernels, pepper, rubber, tin, and tobacco leaves. 8 Effective export rate when there is no "overprice" (actual sales price in excess of "f.o.b.-net" price) or when any proceeds received over and above the "f.o.b.- net" price are utilized to meet normal commercial ex- penses, such as commissions, rebates, and refunds. 11 This rate is adjusted from time to time to follow the BE rate. It was changed to Rp 326 per U.S. dollar on J anu a ry 1, 1970. 10 Devisa Pelengkap, or Complementary Foreign Ex- change. 240 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 1. "F.o.b.-net" prices were established for various categories of timber products. June 23. Imports of Virginia-type tobacco leaf (except under U.S. P.L. 480) were shifted from the BE list to the DP category. August 16. Foreign goods imported from West Irian into other parts of Indonesia became sub- ject to all regular import duties and import levies when not covered by an import license issued by the Ministry of Trade. When covered by such a license, however, they remained subject upon importation into other parts of Indonesia to an excess profit levy of Rp 6 per Irian Barat rupiah. August 21. Many types of non-life insurance were required to be covered either by a national insurance company or a foreign insurance com- pany registered in Indonesia. September 20. Payments for imports of gold could be effected only with DP exchange; imports required a license from the Ministry of Trade, and industrial use required the prior approval of the M in is try of Trade. September 24. Foreign insurance companies operating in Indonesia were required to deposit US$75,000 with Bank Indonesia in the name of the Ministry of Finance. Their m in imum working capital was set at US$225,000. INDONESIA September 24. Exports of specified grades of rubber were prohibited. September 25. Fertilizers and insecticides and pesticides could only be imported by designated importers and payment could be made only with foreign aid funds. October 1. "F.o.b.-net" prices were made applicable to specified Category B commodities, inc lud ing coconut oil and hides. October 17. All imports financed with foreign project assistance or made within the framework of the Foreign and Domestic Investment Law required a manufac turer's certificate from the country of origin or a surveyor's report at the port of entry in Indonesia. November 24. The Minister of Finance announced a decision making foreign commodi- ties handled in interisland trade subject to cus- toms du ty at the port of entry in the receiving region, unless they were accompanied by customs du ty receipts from the region of shipment. The decision would apply to all foreign commodities not accompanied by import documents or for which import du ty had only been paid in part or had been postponed. 241 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN Exchange Rale System The par value is 0.0117316 gram of fine gold per Iran ian Rial or Rls 75.75 = US$1. The official rates are Rls 76.25 buying, and Rls 76.50 selling, per US$1. Exchange rates for other cur- rencies quoted by the central bank l are based on these buy ing and selling rates for the U.S. dollar, taking into consideration the exchange rates of the quoted currencies in the international exchange markets; the commercial banks, how- ever, are not permitted to quote buy ing rates of less than Rls 75.00 per US$1 or selling rates higher than Rls 76.50 per US$1. Exchange rates for currencies not quoted by the central bank are de term ined by the authorized banks on the basis of the rates against the U.S. dollar currently quoted in the international exchange markets. Administration of Control Exchange control authority is vested in the Bank Markazi I ran (the central b a n k ). All for- eign exchange transactions must take place through authorized banks. The import and export of goods is governed by regulations issued annua l ly by the Ministry of Economy and approved by the Council of Ministers. Import policy is formu la ted w i th in an over-all foreign exchange budget. Foreign trade relations with A lban ia, ma in land Ch ina, Eastern Germany, and North Korea are under the control of the Foreign Transactions Corporation w i th in the Ministry of Economy. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts are normally settled in sterling, U.S. dollars, or the currency of the coun- try concerned, provided that the currency is one which is quoted by the central bank. Transactions with the six countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements 2 must be conducted through agreement accounts denomi- 1 Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ru- mania, and U.S.S.R. 242 nated in U.S. dollars. Payments to and from Pak- istan and Turkey relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, petroleum and petro- leum products, and defense materials) are settled over clearing accounts maintained by the respec- tive central banks in U.S. dollars. Proceeds from exports to India may be accepted in Indian rupees. Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Foreign nationals are permitted to maintain accounts freely, in rials as well as in foreign cur- rencies, w i th the authorized banks; rial accounts may be freely used only for payments in Iran, their conversion into foreign currencies being subject to central bank approval. Foreign nation- als may also ma in ta in time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran. Foreign currency accounts of foreign nationals may be used for transfers abroad or for sales to authorized banks, provided that such funds originate abroad. I ran ian nationals may freely maintain time deposits in foreign currencies in Iran; they also may freely retain, on current accounts with domestic banks, all foreign exchange they receive other than export proceeds. imports and Import Payments All imports into Iran are subject to control by the Government. The import policy is re-exam- ined annua l ly, and a new Import List, effective for the next Iranian year, is published by the Ministry of Economy. The Import List distin- guishes between "authorized," "unauthorized," and "prohibited" goods. "Authorized" imports, consisting of nonluxury goods which either are not produced in Iran or are produced in Iran but not in quantities sufficient to meet domestic requ iremen ts, are divided into two main catego- ries : ( 1 ) imports for which orders may be placed w i thout prior approval by government agencies,3 and (2) imports that are subject to prior approval by government agencies (generally the 3 Imports of goods that are not included in the bilat- eral import/export list for countries with which Iran has bilateral payments agreements require special approval by the Ministry of Economy. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Ministry of Economy) before the import order is placed. "Unauthorized" imports include goods which have been shifted from the "authorized" list to the "unauthorized" list, as well as goods that may be permitted occasionally by the Minis- try of Economy when the supply of the protected local product is considered insufficient. For "pro- hibited" goods, no authorizations are given; these comprise only a few items such as opium and firearms. Imports free of charge of "authorized" goods requ ire prior approval by the Ministry of Econ- omy and the central bank; however, permission is given for the following: imports destined for official charitable institutions or government orga- nizations; mach inery, spare parts, and raw or intermediate materials for productive institutions, up to US$500 a shipment; and all other imports of "authorized" goods up to US$150 a shipment. Specified commodities, such as sugar, tobacco, and cigarette paper, are imported under state monopoly. Unless otherwise specifically authorized, pay- ment for all commercial imports must be made through the official exchange marke t. Payments may be made either against bills for collection or documentary letters of credit. Payments against bills for collection may be made w i thout authori- zation for goods (ma in ly capital goods and raw ma te r ia l s) listed in the Schedule attached to Cir- cular No. 116 of August 3, 1965 ( I ran ian date 12.5.1344). Payments for imports of other goods required by domestic industries may also be made against bills for collection with special permission from the central bank. All other import payments must be made against documentary letters of credit. All orders for imports must be registered with the Bank Markazi Iran through an author- ized bank; registration is effected against a pro forma invoice. The import of gifts is restricted to Rls 10,000 for each person a year. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and spe- cial regulations apply to certain commodities originating in Hong Kong. No import registrations are accepted for commodities originating in East- ern Germany. IRAN amount of an import order, calculated on the basis of the official selling rate of Rls 76.50 per US$1, is collected by authorized banks. The fee is charged on all imports except those brought in under the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Inves tment in Iran. Importers must at the same time deposit with the Bank Markazi Iran, through an authorized bank, Rls 10,4 Rls 30, or Rls 75 (depending on the essentiality of the goods) per US$1 for goods for which payment normally must be made against a documen- ta ry letter of credit. This deposit is liable to for- fe i tu re up to Rls 3 per US$1 in the event that any misrepresentation by the importer is subse- quen t ly discovered, but it is otherwise refundable upon presentation of the customs clearance certif- icate a f ter the respective goods have been cleared th rough customs, or if and when the order is can- celed. The advance import deposit is not required for commodities which may be imported on a collection basis, whether they are in fact imported against a b i ll for collection or not. The central bank has authority to permit, at its discretion, the sh i f t ing of imports from the category in which an advance import deposit is required and financing mu st be on a letter of credit basis to the category in which no advance deposit is required and bills for collection are permitted. Au thor ized banks make payments for permit- ted imports against the presentation of shipping documents. Approval of the shipping documents by the authorized banks represents approval of the foreign exchange transfer. Almost all imports are subject to commercial prof it taxes, which are either specific or ad valo- rem, in addition to ta r i f fs. The ad valorem com- mercial prof it tax ranges from 1 per cent to 200 per cent. Monopoly taxes are included in the commercial profit taxes. The authorities specify in the Import List the commercial profit taxes for each year. These taxes are paid to the customs before customs clearance. The clearance through customs is authorized upon the presentation of shipping documents approved by the authorized banks, specifying that payment has been made or w i ll be made, and, when required, that the special At the time of registration of imports, an import registration fee of 4 per cent of the 4 Very few commodities remain subject to the Rls 10 deposit and for reasons of administrative convenience the requ irement is not enforced. 243 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN import authorization has been received from gov- ernment agencies prior to lading of goods in the country of origin. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to imports are made on the same basis as payments for those imports. Exchange is granted to merchants for insurance of imports against bills for collection; for imports covered by documentary letters of credit, insurance must be taken out in Iran. Exchange is not granted to merchants for insur- ance of Iranian exports sold f.o.b. Foreign nationals working in Iran as technical assistants and whose employment has been recognized as necessary by the Government may take out in foreign exchange about 50 per cent of their net salaries. The annual travel allowance for Iranian nationals —which is limited to US$500 or its equivalent in other currencies for travel to Europe, the United States, or the Far East, and to US$100 for other countries except Rhodesia —may be sold by authorized banks upon presen- tation of the traveler's passport. For children under 12 years of age the allowances in principle are 30 per cent of the above amounts, but in practice the full allowances are granted. In addi- tion, authorized banks may at any time sell for- eign exchange up to the equivalent of £50 (US$120), against a written request, to Iranian nationals for assistance to persons abroad or for other personal use without the submission of sup- porting documents, provided that the remittance is made in the form of a mail or telegraphic transfer; authorized banks charge a commission of Rls 130 on each such transfer. Iranian nationals may also freely make remittances abroad from domestic current accounts in which they retain foreign exchange received from sources other than exports; balances in such accounts are freely transferable. Purchases of foreign currency from the banks for payments in respect of noncommer- cial invisibles not mentioned above require licen- ses from the central bank. Iranian nationals leaving the country are required to pay a travel tax of Rls 10,000 for each single-voyage exit permit, except for pil- grimage travel for which the tax is Rls 3,000. Lower rates apply to family members traveling on the same passport (wife and children from 7- 244 18 years of age), viz., Rls 750 a person for pil- grimages and Rls 2,500 a person for other travel. Iranians resident abroad and students studying abroad but visiting home temporarily are exempt from payment of the tax. Travelers leaving Iran may take with them Rls 3,000 in Iranian banknotes. Travelers of for- eign nationality may not export foreign currency in excess of the amount they imported less the amounts they have sold to authorized banks, as recorded in their passports; they may, however, convert rials up to the equivalent of US$50 into other currencies upon presentation of their visaed passport. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of some commodities require licenses. A commercial profit tax is imposed on a few exports, mainly consumer goods or raw materials. The commer- cial profit tax and customs duty charged at the time of import of raw materials contained in manufac tured goods for export may be returned to the exporter after the export has taken place. Under a system of export subsidies (that are announced semiannually), the Ministry of Econ- omy allows the exporter 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of manganese ore and 6l/2 per cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of lead ore. However, the actual rate paid to the exporter by the Ministry of Economy is 90 per cent of the percentages mentioned; the remainder is put at the disposal of the Ministry of Economy to pro- mote exports. Certain minor exports are granted incentive payments by the Center for the Promo- tion of Exports. The central bank offers preferen- tial discount facilities for export bills. The exporter must offer for surrender the for- eign exchange value of his exports, as appraised by the customs, within eight months after the goods have been exported. Authorized banks accept export proceeds only in specified curren- cies (see footnote 1) or, for exports to India, in Indian rupees. Proceeds from invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained in a foreign currency account with an authorized bank, where they remain at the free disposal of the account holder. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution The import of Iranian currency by travelers to Iran is permitted in unlimited amounts. The repa- triation of Iranian banknotes through the mail is not permitted. Travelers, during their stay in Iran, may sell their exchange only to an author- ized bank at the bank's buying rate. Capital Iranian nationals may retain in domestic for- eign currency accounts any capital receipts accru- ing in foreign exchange; transfers abroad from such accounts may be made freely, as may domestic transfers to other Iranian nationals. Transfers of capital abroad which would involve the purchase of foreign exchange from the bank- ing system require the approval of the central bank; except as noted below, such approval is given only in exceptional circumstances. In accordance with the Law for the Attraction and Protection of Foreign Investment in Iran (1955) and regulations implementing the law, foreign capital invested in approved development or productive activities in industry, mining, agri- culture, or transport may be repatriated, together w i th net profits (in accordance with Article 1 of the Law for the Attraction and Protection of For- eign Investment and the provisions contained in the implementing regulations), in the form of for- eign exchange and/or goods. Transfers of exchange must be made at the selling rate pre- vailing at the date of transfer. However, the cen- tral bank has the option of buying the exchange or accepting it as a deposit to be converted into rials at a rate mutually agreed upon in a separate agreement, and this rate is applicable to the funds when they are repatriated. Capital imported in the form of foreign exchange must be in curren- cies acceptable to the central bank; the exchange is converted into rials at the buying rate prevail- ing at the date of application for conversion. The law does not set up any limit of participation with respect to the ratio of foreign to domestic investment, but the Supervisory Board encourages participation by Iranians in the proposed invest- ment. Gold Residents may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Iran; imports and exports of gold in any form, except IRAN jewelry constituting the personal effects of a trav- eler,5 require the prior approval of the central bank, unless the import or export is made by or on behalf of the monetary authorities; in practice, all imports of nonmonetary gold are made by the Bank Melli Iran (an authorized commercial bank) and exports are prohibited. Commercial imports of articles containing a minor quantity of gold, such as watches, require licenses issued by the Ministry of Economy. Changes during 1969 January 2. Imports of tires and tubes for bicy- cles and motorcycles were listed as unauthorized. February 23. Imports of veterinary drugs and animal feeding s tu f fs were made subject to prior approval of the Ministry of Agriculture. March 12. A long-term trade and payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was signed. The swing credit on the existing clearing account was increased. The new agreements came into effect on July 1, 1969. March 21. The Import/Export Regulations for the Iranian year 1348 (March 21, 1969-March 20, 1970) came into effect. With a view to con- serving foreign exchange reserves and to protect- ing certain domestic industries, commercial profit taxes were increased for more than 350 tariff items. The new Regulations limited each automo- bile dealer's imports of passenger cars and sports cars to 50 per cent of the number he had imported during 1347. Two commodities were shifted to the list of those whose import required the prior approval of the Ministry of Economy in view of the beginning of domestic production. March 26. The £50 (US$120) facility for personal remittances could no longer be used for the purchase of travelers checks. April 14. Iranian workers leaving the country on a foreign assignment ceased to be exempt from the travel tax. May 10. Importers were generally permitted to defer the payment of import duties and commer- 5 Such jewelry must have a cost of production equiva- lent to at least one fourth of the total value; the assess- ment is made by the customs. It must also meet the requirements set by the Iranian Institute of Standards. 245 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAN cial profit taxes until three months after customs clearance. This facility was withdrawn in Novem- ber. May 14. The Ministry of Economy ordered authorized banks to refrain from opening docu- mentary letters of credit for imports from Eastern Germany and from registering imports from East- ern Germany. June 4. A long-term trade and payments agree- ment with Hungary came into effect. The swing credit on the existing clearing account was increased. July 22. The 4 per cent import registration fee was allowed to be paid in installments for industrial machinery and equipment imported with the approval of the Ministry of Economy against documentary letters of credit. August 30. Prior approval by the Ministry of Agriculture was required for imports of livestock. were increased by the addition of a provision under which Iran would extend seasonal credit up to US$5 million to Rumania. September 10. Banks required both the prior approval of the central bank and a counterguar- antee from a foreign bank to extend credits in rials or guarantees in rials to residents maintain- ing accounts with foreign banks. Previously, many of these activities were covered by a gen- eral permission granted to authorized banks, and rial credits could be covered by guarantees put up by nonbank nonresidents. October 1. Imports of tea, coffee, cocoa, many foodstuffs, all alcoholic and nonalcoholic bever- ages, and all cosmetics required the prior approval of the Ministry of Health. October 4. The official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were increased to Rls 76.25 and Rls 76.50, respectively, per US$1. September 4. A long-term trade and payments agreement with Rumania came into effect. The existing credit facilities on the clearing account October 4. The basis for calculating the import registration fee was changed from Rls 75 per US$1 to Rls 76.50 per US$1. 246 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ Exchange Rale System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Iraqi Dinar or ID 1 = US$2.80. Transac- tions in the official market are carried out in any of the listed cu r renc ies1 or in Iraqi dinars through nonresident accounts in Iraq. The Cen- tral Bank of Iraq quotes official rates for the listed currencies for its transactions w i th author- ized dealers. An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi d inar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of persons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraq is). The tax is 8 per cent for the first ID 500 and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500 granted during any calendar year. Administration of Control The Board of Adm in is t ra t ion of the Central Bank of Iraq is entrusted with all powers and responsibilities in connection with exchange con- trol; it has delegated th is au tho r i ty to the Foreign Exchange Committee, headed by the Governor of the Central Bank (or his Depu ty ), to the Foreign Exchange Department of the Central Bank, and to the licensed dealers. Foreign exchange trans- actions must take place through a licensed dealer unless otherwise authorized by the Board of Administration. The Directorate-General of Imports and Exports in the M in is t ry of Economy is the licensing au thor i ty for imports and exports. Prescription of Currency Settlements must be made in any of the listed currencies 1 or, under bilateral payments agree- ments,2 in d ina rs or pounds sterling through the appropriate clearing account. Payments to and receipts from Israel are prohibited. 1 The listed currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche m a r k, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Iraq has bilateral agreements with ma in land China, United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts The open ing of a nonresident account requires the approval of the exchange control authorities. Transactions perm i t ted in convertible currencies may a l te rna t ive ly be settled in Iraqi dinars th rough nonresident accounts. Nonresident accounts are divided into ordinary nonresident accounts, wh ich arise from transactions in respect of cu r rent payments, and special nonresident accounts, wh ich arise from transactions in respect of capital transfers. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica and all imports from Hong Kong other th an cer ta in essential goods are prohibited. Impor ts of 70 commodities are prohibited from all sources. There is also a list of about 100 items of commodities whose import is suspended. Imports of ju te, sugar, tea, olive oil, certain medi- cal supplies, automobiles, and some other com- modities are a government monopoly. All private impor ts except those of the oil companies are licensed in accordance with an annual import program. Quotas are distributed by the Directo- rate-General of Impor ts and Exports in accord- ance w i th its own criteria; each category of importer is limited to two types of commodi- ties. Imports of consumer goods generally are more heav i ly restricted than those of raw mate- r ia ls and equ ipment for indus tr ial use. Some com- modities may only be imported by government agencies or state t rad ing companies; other com- modities may also be imported by registered pri- vate importers or by contractors who have entered into contracts with the Iraq Government. New importers who meet the requirements may also be gran ted import privileges. Licenses for private imports are valid for 6 mon ths f rom the date of issue and are automati- cally renewable for a similar period if the goods have been shipped or a letter of credit has been opened. Licenses for imports by the Government or by official agencies are valid for 12 months from the date of issue. A tax is levied on the amount of the import licenses at the following rates: l/2 per mill for producer goods, 1 per 247 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRAQ mill for consumer goods, and 15 per cent on supplementary import licenses above an import- er's annual quota. All imports subject to import duty are also subject to a surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Licensed dealers make exchange available upon presentation of the exchange control copy of the import license, except in some instances where reference has to be made to the Central Bank. Payments for invisibles All payments for invisibles require permission. Exchange is usually granted for travel, educa- tional and medical expenses abroad, freight on exports carried on a c. & f. basis, insurance premiums, royalties, etc. Exchange is not granted to merchants for the insurance abroad of their imports or exports. Licensed dealers are per- mitted to transfer up to ID 50 a month for family maintenance on behalf of foreign nationals resi- dent in Iraq, provided that remittances do not exceed half of the resident's monthly income; it is necessary to refer to the exchange control author- ities for amounts exceeding this limit. There is a basic travel allowance of ID 100 a calendar year for each person 18 years of age or over, of ID 50 for persons aged between 5 and 18, and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger, subject to a limit of ID 200 for each passport covering more than one person. Tourist travel exchange additional to the basic allowances is subject to ad hoc approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out ID 5 in Iraqi cur- rency notes, as part of the basic travel allow- ance, and the equivalent of ID 15 in foreign currency. Residents on a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia are permitted to take out the equivalent of ID 150 in listed currencies or in Saudi Ara- bian riyals (ID 75 for persons over 5 and under 18 and ID 25 for children 5 years of age or younger). An exchange tax is levied on the Iraqi dinar equivalent of foreign exchange granted to a person who leaves Iraq or resides abroad, except on amounts transferred for the account of per- sons studying abroad, persons on official missions, and foreigners (other than those married to Iraqis). The tax is 8 per cent on the first ID 500 248 granted during any calendar year and 12 per cent on amounts above ID 500. Travelers leaving Iraq must deposit with an authorized bank 10 per cent of the Iraqi dinar equivalent of the foreign exchange granted. The deposit is refunded upon the traveler's return to Iraq, subject to the fulfillment of certain formali- ties. The following are exempt from the deposit requirement: officials of government, semigovern- ment, and public utility departments, certain per- sons traveling for study purposes, foreigners except non-Iraq wives of Iraq nationals, and persons leaving on a pilgrimage. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Hong Kong, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and exports of certain goods to all other countries are prohibited. The Ministry of Economy has authority to prohibit exports of agricultural products when supply falls short of domestic demand. The Higher Supply Committee may also prohibit the export of certain commodi- ties. All other exports are licensed freely. Exporters must generally undertake to repa- triate their foreign exchange proceeds through a licensed dealer and to surrender them. Proceeds from exports of dates taken by sailing boats to countries of the Persian Gulf area (excluding I ran) and India are exempt from these require- ments, and some commodities may be exported on a compensation (barter) basis. Proceeds from invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to a licensed dealer. Travelers may bring in foreign exchange, including cur- rency notes, in unlimited amounts, provided that they are declared to the Iraq customs; foreigners may re-export any unused amount. Travelers may bring in ID 5 in Iraqi notes. Capital Nonresidents may import capital freely, except from Israel, but they must deposit it with a licensed dealer; such deposits may be converted into local currency at the official rate, and repa- triation to the country of origin is permitted. With minor exceptions, foreign companies start- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing operations in Iraq must use Iraq capital to the extent of at least 51 per cent of their total capital. One half of the profits af ter income tax of foreign service companies (companies render- ing services only, including bank ing and insur- ance firms) is transferable. The transfer of profits net of income tax from foreign investments in other economic activities is limited to 10 per cent per annum of the paid-up capital for trad ing companies, and to 20 per cent of the paid-up capital for industrial companies. These percent- ages are applicable for each year separately. They also apply to profits on capital resulting from the manda tory reinvestment of profits in excess of the transferable percentages. Arab capital invested in Iraq is exempt from these percentage limitations. Interest payments may be made freely, subject to administrative checking. All transfers of capital abroad by residents, whether Iraqis or foreigners, require exchange control approval. Such transfers are severely restricted. Under the Industrial Promotion Law (No. 164 of 1964), specified enterprises in Iraq are granted partial or total exemption dur ing the first five years of operation from income tax, stamp duties, and customs duties on their profits up to 10 per cent of paid-up capital, provided that (1) the principal work of the enterprise is done by machine; (2) all workers and employees other than essential technicians or experts are Iraq citizens or Arabs; (3) the value of machin- ery and tools required, excluding power-generat- ing plant exceeds ID 3,000; and (4) foreign non-Arab participation in the enterprise does not exceed 40 per cent. Similar exemptions for profits up to 5 per cent of paid-up capital are granted during the second five-year period of operation. The specified enterprises are those whose main purpose is to process raw materials into semi- manufactured or finished products or to process semimanufactured products into finished prod- ucts, including assembly. Under the Iraqization Law of June 1961, all branches of foreign firms and all foreign-owned firms except banks) 3 must have a majority of equity capital held by Iraq 3 All commercial banks and insurance companies were nationalized on July 14, 1964. IRAQ nationals; this law does not cover export agencies and operations requiring special skills. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in Iraq. Imports and exports of gold in any form require the approval of the Central Bank. Since mid-1961, the Rafidain Bank has held a monopoly over the import and domestic distribu- tion of gold needed for industrial purposes; it sells gold to registered goldsmiths only, under a quota system based on their past turnover of gold. Travelers may freely bring gold into Iraq, provided that it is declared at the point of entry on a foreign exchange form. Changes during 1969 During the greater part of 1969, imports from Iran were prohibited and the issuance of import licenses was severly restricted for most goods originating in Denmark, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, Ruman ia, and the United States. Imports from Lebanon also were temporarily prohibited. January J. The import program for 1969 took effect. Imports (excluding some government im- ports and imports of goods for industrial proj- ects executed by foreign firms) would amount to US$420 million, w i th an additional allocation of US$20 million as a reserve. The public sector's role in import operations was enhanced. January 30. A special fund for the encourage- ment of exports was established, to be financed by ( 1 ) a tax of not more than 1 per cent on cer- tain specified exports, (2) a tax of 1 per cent on the value of import licenses, certain products being exempted, and (3) a tax of not more than 15 per cent on certain domestic products. May 22. The amounts previously exempt from the exchange tax levied on foreign exchange granted to persons leaving Iraq or residing abroad ceased to be exempt. November 2. Import allocations for 1969 were revised upward to the equivalent of US$442 million. 249 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Irish Pound or <£Ir 1 = US$2.40. There is no exchange market in Ireland. Transactions in sterling take place at parity. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on rates in the London marke t, where Irish commercial banks conduct the bulk of their non-sterling transactions. Cer- tain capital transactions involving investment cur- rency or property currency (see section on Capi- tal, below) take place at different effective rates. On February 15, 1961, Ireland accepted the obli- gations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Exchange control is operated by the Central Bank. Much of the au thor i ty for approving normal payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Import li- censes, where necessary, are issued by the Depart- ment of Industry and Commerce if the goods are of an indus tr ial na ture, or by the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries if the goods are agricul- tural in character. Import licensing is not used for exchange control purposes. Import and export controls are administered by the Revenue Com- missioners. Prescription of Currency Ireland is a member of the Sterling Area, and payments to and from other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency; certain insurance payments within the Sterling Area, however, may be made in non- Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Irish pounds or ster- ling through an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The proceeds of exports to countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in Irish pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. The pro- ceeds of permitted exports to Rhodesia must be received in non-Sterling Area currency other than 250 Rhodesian pounds; payments to Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts of persons resident in other countries of the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. Accounts of persons resident in coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are treated as non- resident accounts and, with the exception of Rhodesian Accounts, are designated External Accounts. These may be credited with payments authorized for t rans fer to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, with transfers from other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, and with the proceeds in Irish pounds of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold by a resident of a country outside the Sterling Area to an authorized bank in Ireland. Balances on these accounts may be transferred freely to other External Accounts in Irish pounds or in sterling, used for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, or converted through an authorized bank in Ireland into any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Accounts held by or on behalf of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. The opening of such accounts, and all debits and credits thereto, require the prior approval of the Central Bank. imports and Import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Rho- desia require a special license. With this excep- tion, the import of goods into Ireland is subject to two types of administrative control. Under one type, which covers only a limited range of com- modities for protective and other nonbalance of payments purposes, imports of certain commodi- ties are subject to quantitative restrictions, which, in most cases, are on a world-wide basis.1 Indi- vidual import licenses are required for the^e 1 Most of the remaining quotas are being gradually in- creased in accordance with an obligation in the Anglo- Irish Free Trade Area Agreement; the enlargements to date have been made on a global basis, although the obligation relates only to goods originating in the United Kingdom. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution goods and are used to limit the quantity of goods imported. In addition, special quota restrictions apply to certain textiles and yarns originating in any of the 16 specified countries or territories.2 All other imports are free of import licensing. Under the other type of control, prior permission of the Central Bank is required before orders may be placed for goods originating outside the Sterling Area, if they are not to be used in Ire- land or are to be delivered more than nine months a f ter the date of the order. For permitted imports, appropriate exchange or permission to credit Irish pounds or sterling to an External Account is granted automatically. Exchange control forms are required for import payments exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Sterling Area. Payments for Invisibles Payments to other territories of the Sterling Area are not subject to exchange control unless they are for transactions outside the Sterling Area. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Approval to make paymen ts for most invisibles is given by the authorized banks; for other invisibles, it is given by the Central Bank. For tour ist travel outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) there is a basic allow- ance for residents of the State of £250 a person for each tr ip. For business travel, up to £1,500 is allowed for each journey. Limits are also established for allowances for education and other purposes. Applications for larger amounts are approved, provided that no unauthorized export of capital is involved. Not more than £250 of a foreign currency allowance may be issued in the form of currency notes. Persons trav- eling to destinations outside the United Kingdom (other than to Rhodesia) may also take with them up to £25 in Sterling Area currency notes. Travelers who are resident outside the Sterling Area (other than Rhodesia) may take with them any foreign currency notes that they brought into Ireland. There is no restriction on the amount of 2 These are Bulgaria, ma in land China, Repub l ic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Japan, Macao, Malaysia, Pak is tan, Po- land, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. IRELAND Irish or other banknotes that may be taken to the United Kingdom. Exports and Export Proceeds A system of export licensing is applied to a limited range of goods. There is a special restric- tion on the export of a number of items to Rho- desia. Exporters of goods to countries outside the Sterling Area must obtain payment for the goods w i th in six months of shipment, if the value of the goods exceeds £100. When payment is received in non-Sterling Area currencies, the exchange must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Exchange control forms are required for exports exceeding £2,000 to countries outside the Ster- ling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles There are no specific requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles, but if non- Sterling Area currencies are received they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank or permis- sion for the ir retention must be obtained. Any non-Sterling Area currency held by a person after his r e tu rn from a trip abroad may be retained for three months from the date he received the exchange, for use on a subsequent tr ip abroad. There are no limitations on the import of Irish or foreign banknotes. Capital Exchange control approval is required for all t rans fe rs of capital to countries outside the Ster- l ing Area. Applications for transfer of capital at the official market rate of exchange by residents of the State emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area (other than to Rhodesia) are approved up to a limit of £5,000 a family. Where the total value of an emigrant's assets exceeds £5,000, the transfer of the excess amount outside the Sterling Area is restricted for a period of four years from the emigrant's redes- ignation as a nonresident, i.e., from the date of depar ture from Ireland. Thereafter, the assets would be treated in the same way as those of non-Sterling Area residents who had never been resident in Ireland. However, permission is given at any time af ter redesignation for the restricted funds to be transferred abroad through the 251 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IRELAND investment currency market (see below) or invested in Sterling Area securities. Applications for the transfer of resident-owned capital for pur- poses other than emigration are considered on their merits. There are no restrictions on the inflow of capi- tal, but purchases of unquoted Irish securities by nonresidents of the Sterling Area require approval, and the purchase of nonurban land by foreign nationals in most cases requires approval by the Land Commission. Incoming capital received in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. However, investment currency, i.e., the foreign currency proceeds from the sale of non-Sterling Area securities 3 sold outside the Sterling Area, may be fu l ly reinvested in non-sterling securities, pro- vided that the securities sold were held prior to April 7, 1965, or acquired by "switches" from securities so held, and that the investment is car- ried out within six months from the date of sale through a bank, a stockbroker, or a solicitor. Where the securities sold were purchased with investment currency on or after April 7, 1965, 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be surrendered at the official rate. Investment currency may be invested temporarily in certificates of deposit with up to six months to run to final maturity, without incurring the need to comply with the 25 per cent requirement on resale, provided that the limit of six months for the holding of investment currency is not exceeded. In certain cases, the proceeds from the sale or liquidation of direct investments outside the Sterling Area are eligible for invest- ment in non-Sterling Area securities, provided that 25 per cent of such proceeds is surrendered at the official rate. The foreign currency proceeds (referred to as property currency) from the sale outside the Sterling Area of property owned by residents, mainly houses and apartments, may be used, subject to individual permission, to pur- chase for personal use a house or apartment in a country outside the Sterling Area; payments for attendant expenses and improvements must also 3 Non-Sterling Area securities are all securities ex- pressed in the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than the Rhodesian pound. 252 be made with property currency. Approval is normally limited to one property a family, and purchases of property currency are limited to rea- sonable amounts. Transactions in securities are controlled to ensure that capital is not transferred outside the Sterling Area. Dealings in Irish regis- tered securities are permitted freely between resi- dents of the Sterling Area. Specific approval is required for all dealings in securities payable in Rhodesian pounds. Banks may freely accept deposits in non-Sterling Area currency from nonresidents of the Sterling Area and lend such deposits on to other non- residents of the Area. Application must be made to the Central Bank for nonbank private sector borrowing from nonresidents of the Sterling Area; such applications are considered on their merits and on the benefit likely to accrue to the econ- omy. Public sector borrowing outside the Sterling Area is undertaken following consultation with the Central Bank. Lending of Irish currency to nonresidents of the Sterling Area is not normally permitted, except to the extent that overdraft facilities may be provided by the banks to mem- bers of non-Sterling Area diplomatic and consu- lar missions in Ireland. Gold Dealings in gold coin and gold bullion are restricted. Permission is normally granted to resi- dents to acquire gold coins for numismatic pur- poses. There are no restrictions on the import of gold coin or bullion but the permission of the Central Bank is required for export. Such permis- sion is not normally granted except to industrial users. Changes during 1969 During the year, certain minor modifications in quantitative import restrictions took place. July 1. The fourth annual reduction in protec- tive duties on imports from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area Agree- ment was effected. July 1. Ireland completed the tariff reductions undertaken in the Kennedy Round. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Exchange Rale System The par value is 0.253906 gram of fine gold per Israel Pound or I £3.50 = US$1. All exchange transactions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Department of Foreign Exchange Control of the Ministry of Finance, under the responsibility of the Controller of Foreign Exchange and in coop- eration with other government agencies and is carried out through authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Payments and receipts must be effected in the currency and manner prescribed by the exchange control authorities. Settlements with countries with which payments agreements are in force * are usually made in U.S. dollars as an accounting un i t. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents' funds are held either on foreign currency accounts or on local currency accounts. The principal type of nonresident foreign cur- rency account is the PATACH account. A non- resident abroad may use his foreign currency account freely; when in Israel, he may convert funds held on the account into local currency at the official rate. Local currency accounts of nonresidents are of two types: ( 1) Registered Accounts —for pay- ments to and holdings of foreign aviation, ship- ping, insurance, and film companies and for hold- ings of former residents —may be established only with special approval. Aviation, shipping, and insurance companies may freely convert at the official rate of exchange any amounts held on these accounts which are surplus to local require- ments; film companies may do so under individ- ual arrangements made with each company. Reg- istered Account funds held by former residents 1 Israel has bilateral payments agreements with Bra- zil, Bulgaria, Hungary, Portugal, and Yugoslavia. may be used for investment in listed Israel securi- ties, for purchase of real estate, for tourist ex- penses in Israel up to an amount of I £ 150 a day for the account holder and for each member of his fam i ly, for remittances of up to I £5,000 in support of relatives who are residents of Israel, for the settlement of taxes payable in Israel by the owner of the account, and for donations to public and charitable institutions. Ownership of Registered Accounts may not be transferred. (2) Blocked Accounts may be used to hold funds derived from former investments that are not eli- gible for transfer at the official rate and funds left behind in Israel by tourists. Balances may not be transferred from one nonresident to another, but the accounts may be liquidated by purchasing foreign securities against Israel pounds and sell- ing them abroad against foreign exchange. Other- wise, Blocked Accounts may be used within Israel for the same purposes as Registered Accounts but no l im it is placed on the amounts that may be w i thdrawn. Israeli citizens who are temporarily living and earning abroad may ma in ta in foreign currency in PAMAZ accounts in Israel. Balances in such accounts may be freely used abroad. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currency Residents may maintain foreign currency deposits with authorized banks in Israel on either PAZAK or TAMAM accounts: PAZAK accounts may be held by all recipients of foreign exchange other than those to whom exchange has been allocated f rom domestic sources; the funds on TAMAM accounts originate mainly from restitu- tion paymen ts and only certain categories of per- sons, such as recipients of restitution payments and servicemen of World War II receiving dis- ability pensions, are eligible to hold these accounts. PAZAK accounts are time deposit accounts denominated in convertible currencies and earn- ing interest at a max imum rate of 6 per cent if the account has been held for a period of one year. All foreign exchange receipts, except those derived from exchange allocations by the Ministry of Finance but including export proceeds, may be 253 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL placed in PAZAK accounts. Account holders may retain funds in this manner or may exchange them into local currency. As an inducement to export, those exporters who are account holders may use foreign exchange balances in PAZAK accounts. Balances in PAZAK accounts are not negotiable between residents, but PAZAK accounts may be registered in the names of members of the imme- d ia te f am i ly of the account holder. TAMAM accounts are time deposit accounts in convertible currencies and bearing m ax imum interest at 4!/2 per cent if held for one year. One third of convertible exchange receipts derived f rom personal res t i tu t ion paymen ts and pensions, etc., of disabled soldiers who served dur ing World War II may be credited to TAMAM accounts. The permitted uses of TAMAM accounts inc lude the following: ( 1) the purchase th rough the med ium of the authorized bank hold- ing the account of securities denominated in con- ver t ib le foreign currency that are registered on an official stock exchange in specified foreign coun- tries; (2) payment of p r em iums on ex is t ing l i fe insurance policies denom ina ted in foreign cur- rency; (3) payment of expenses in connection w i th travel and subsistence abroad in excess of the basic travel exchange allocation of the equ iva lent of US$375, provided t h at not more than the equ iva lent of US$1,200 per a n n um is d rawn by the account holder and for each member of his fam i ly; (4) payment of expenses for s tudy abroad, subject to approval by the M in i s t ry of Educa t ion and Cu l tu re, provided that the studies be ing financed in th is way were begun prior to Feb- ruary 11, 1962; and (5) payment of legal expenses resulting from res t i tu t ion claims. NATAD accounts are transfer accounts in for- eign exchange that are used ma in ly for transac- tions in foreign securities. Holders of TAMAM accounts may purchase abroad foreign securities denominated in convertible foreign currency and registered on an official stock exchange in speci- fied countries of issue. Foreign securities thus acquired may be traded freely among residents, provided th at paymen ts for such securities are effected with NATAD or TAMAM funds or in Israel pounds. If the original buyer resells securi- ties bought with TAMAM account funds for for- eign currency he may deposit the proceeds in TAMAM accounts. Residents who are not hold- 254 ers of TAMAM accounts may deposit the foreign exchange proceeds from the sale of foreign secu- rities in NATAD accounts. Balances in NATAD accounts may be used to purchase fu r ther foreign securities but are not negotiable between resi- dents. If foreign securities are sold between resi- dents against Israel pounds, the conversion factor used to establish their domestic currency value is the so-called NATAD rate. On December 31, 1969, it stood at about I<£4 .36 per U.S. dollar. imports and import Payments A few imports are prohibited from all sources and all imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All commodities, whose importation is not liberalized are listed in a Negative List. Importers of goods listed in the Free Import Orders (about one half of total impor ts in 1969) need not be approved as importers by the M in is try of Commerce and Indus t ry. These goods are free of all licensing and restriction. All other imports are subject to licensing. For commodities on the Automatic Approval List (about 40 per cent of total impo r ts ), licenses are issued automatically upon application. All other permissible imports consti- tu te the Restricted List. All individual import licenses must be countersigned by the Depart- ment of Foreign Exchange Control of the Minis- try of Finance. The currency and method of pay- ment are prescribed in each license; if a convertible currency is prescribed, payment may be made in any convertible currency. Six basic food products (frozen meat, m i lk powder, wheat, oilseeds, edible fa ts, and sugar) are imported exclusively by or for account of the Government of Israel. Exchange to pay for items listed in the Free Impo rt Orders or to pay for licensed imports is granted au toma t ica l ly. If payment is to be made by documen ta ry credit, the foreign currency requ ired may be purchased at the time of open- ing the credit; funds not transferred abroad immediately must be deposited in a special account with the Bank of Israel until transfer is made. Licenses are issued for imports of goods on consignment, provided that the recipient of the license imports goods valued at US$250,000 w i th in three months and undertakes to deposit 10 per cent of the value of the goods in local cur- rency with the Bank of Israel through an author- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ized bank. Each license is valid only for a single commodity, and an importer cannot receive more than two such licenses a year. The approval of the Department of Foreign Exchange Control is required for a ll impo r ts effected und er foreign credits.2 Payments for invisibles Most paymen ts abroad for invisibles require ind iv idual licenses. Each resident is allowed exchange equ iv a l ent to US$30-250, wh ich is ob ta inab le on demand, for certain purposes such as the purchase of books, membership dues, and registration in a un ive rs i ty. For tour ist travel abroad, there is an exchange allowance equ iva- lent to US$375 a traveler for each jou rney .3 The allowance is US$500 if not more than one jour- ney is made d u r i ng a period of two years.4 Not more than I< £ 1 00 in Israel bankno tes may be taken out by travelers. Foreign tourists leaving Israel are pe rm i t ted to repurchase through authorized dealers part of the same foreign cur- rency they p rev ious ly exchanged in to Israel pounds, but not more than the equivalent of I£105. Res iden ts t r av e l ing abroad must pay a travel t ax; for t ravel by sea, the tax is I<£340 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the t icke t, and for travel by a i r, I £495 plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the t icke t. Expor ters do ing more th an US$100,000 of export business a year are exempt f rom t r av el tax on business trips. Imm i- grants and the ir fam i l ies are exempt from travel tax for three years f rom the date of imm ig ra t ion or of en t ry as tempo ra ry residents. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports do not r equ i re licenses if paid for in freely conve r t ib le cu r renc ies. For some commodi- '-' On J a n u a ry 11, 1970 an impo rt deposit scheme was in t roduced. Impo r te rs were requ ired to depos it w i th the customs, at the t ime of pay ing the impo rt d u ty and for a period of six m o n t h s, 50 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue of imports. Exempt were commod i t ies subject to customs du ty at a ra te of less than 30 per cent, impo r ts by or for the Gov e rnm en t, imm ig ran t s' personal e f fec ts, g i f ts, a n d — u n t il J a n u a ry 20 —sh ipmen ts v a lu ed at less than I £500. The Bank of Israel requested commercial banks not to increase advances to impor ters for the purpose of financing the deposits. 3 Reduced to US$250 w i th effect f rom March 2, 1970. 4 This f a c i l i ty was d iscon t inued on March 2, 1970. ISRAEL ties, however, export licensing is retained for the purpose of qu a l i ty control. The M in is try of Com- merce and I n d u s t ry ma in ta ins a check on export t ransac t ions w i th a low value-added content wh ich are made w i th bilateral par tners: this is done to discourage switch transactions. Export proceeds in fore ign currencies must be surren- dered or held on a PAZAK account. Exports of ce r ta in commodities are eligible for incentive pay- men ts; th at for c i t rus f r u i ts is the equivalent of 35 agorot per US$1. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must, in gene ra l, be su r rende red. Alternatively, they may be kept in fore ign exchange on PAZAK accounts, ba lances on wh ich may be exchanged into Israel cu r r en cy at any t ime or used to make authorized p aym en t s. Any resident is free to accept specified conve r t ib le cu r renc ies f rom tourists in payment for services and commod i t ies o ther t h an commer- cial expor ts and real estate. One t h i rd of the foreign exchange received by res iden ts of Israel as res t i tu t ion payments, and as pensions by disabled soldiers who served in World War II, may be re ta ined in TAMAM accounts. For ten years a f t er en ter ing Israel, new immi- g ran ts are exempt from surrendering their foreign exchange to the Treasury, and they may keep these cu r renc ies with authorized banks in Israel or w i th b anks abroad. Tourists v i s i t ing Israel are expected to bring w i th them the amoun ts of foreign currency that they will need d u r i ng their stay. Not more than I < £ 1 00 in Israel bankno tes may be brought in by trave lers. Tourists and others v i s i t ing Israel who are holders of Registered Accounts (see section on Non res ident Accounts, above) may draw upon such accounts to the extent of I £100 a day for themselves and the same amount for each member of th e ir fam i l ies; if they are holders of Blocked Accounts, they may draw on these with- out l im i t. Capital Foreign exchange representing incoming capital and belonging to a resident has to be surrendered at the o f f ic ial rate or held in a PAZAK account. 255 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ISRAEL Capital brought into Israel for the purpose of investment may, subject to approval, be granted preferential treatment in accordance with the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments of August 16, 1959, which, inter alia, permits a nonresident who has made an "approved" invest- ment in foreign currency to transfer all his profits abroad in the same currency at the official rate. Repayment and amortization of capital may also be transferred on the following terms: if the investment has been kept for less than five years, the capital may be withdrawn in five equal installments; if the investment has been kept for more than five years, it may be withdrawn imme- diately. Current policy is to grant "approved" status only to enterprises in selected fields of pro- duction that fu l f i ll one of the following condi- tions: ( 1) that they are established in "priority areas"; (2) that they are export-oriented, i.e., either at least 50 per cent of output is exported or existing productive capacity is increased by at least 50 per cent while at least 50 per cent of the additional ou tput is exported; or (3) that, although for economic reasons the enterprise cannot be established in a priority area, its pro- duction is of the import-substitution type. There is no longer any difference between an "approved investment" and any other investment made by a nonresident in foreign currency insofar as his rights to transfer abroad the principal or the interest or profits on his investment are con- cerned. The difference does still exist as regards other benefits, such as income tax concessions and grants. Every investment in real estate, debentures reg- istered at the stock exchange, or shares that was made in Israel after May 15, 1948 in foreign cur- rency that was converted into Israel pounds as the law required, or that was made in Israel pounds derived from the conversion of foreign currency, or in State of Israel bonds that may be used for investment purposes upon maturity, enti- tles the nonresident or immigrant concerned (providing in the latter case that the investment was implemented before his settling permanently in Israel) to transfer abroad the proceeds of the liquidation of his investment by purchasing for- eign currency at the official exchange rate. (For immigrants, this right is limited to the first ten years of their residence in Israel.) As regards 256 income from such investments (including profits distributed in the form of bonus shares), this principle applies only to securities registered at the stock exchange or to income credited to a Blocked Account in the name of the beneficiary after Janua ry 1, 1968. In respect of investments made by nonresidents to which the above princi- ple does not apply —either as regards the princi- pal or earnings —the proceeds of liquidation and the earnings must be credited to a Blocked Account. An investment made from monies in a Registered Account, or from amounts which the owner was legally obliged from the outset to deposit in a Registered Account, can only be liq- uidated by crediting the proceeds and the income to a Registered Account. Normally, the Regis- tered Account must be credited with every right accruing in Israel to a foreign resident, subject to the approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Proceeds accruing from the repatriation or liq- u ida t ion of foreign assets held by residents are treated in the same way as proceeds from invisi- bles. Any resident may retain property abroad, but not money, securities, or the income from property; new immigrants may retain liquid assets as well. Transfers abroad of a capital nature by residents other than new immigrants are generally not permitted. Owners of TAMAM deposits are entitled to purchase foreign securities registered at certain stock exchanges abroad. Foreign securities pur- chased to the debit of a TAMAM deposit can be sold abroad by their owners, or in Israel against foreign currency to owners of other TAMAM or NATAD deposits. The proceeds of the sale can then be credited to the TAMAM account pre- viously debited with the purchase. The owner of foreign securities bought through TAMAM or NATAD accounts is allowed to sell them also against Israel pounds, and the purchaser in his tu rn may sell them either against Israel pounds or against foreign currency (abroad or to holders of TAMAM or NATAD deposits); he is entitled to deposit the foreign currency proceeds in a NATAD account. This is the only manner in which NATAD accounts can be established. The holder of a NATAD account may draw on it to purchase foreign securities abroad, or to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution pay to a holder of a TAMAM or NATAD account foreign currency for foreign securities. It is also permissible to purchase gold from monies in TAMAM and NATAD accounts, the proce- dure being the same. The acqu is i t ion of real estate in Israel by a nonresident requires the prior approval of the Controller of Foreign Exchange. Nonresidents may freely purchase shares that are quoted on the Tel Av iv stock exchange, provided that pur- chases are financed with convertible foreign cur- rencies. Gold Residents, inc lud ing private persons may freely hold gold in any form either in Israel or abroad; purchases by private persons must be financed out of TAMAM or NATAD accounts, except for purchases of jewelry and articles containing a minor qu an t i ty of gold, such as watches. If the gold is held in Israel, it must be deposited with an authorized bank, except for collectors' coins and personal jewelry. It is forbidden to trade in gold, to transfer it from place to place, or to take it out of Israel. Gold can be sold only to an authorized dealer and can be bought only from an authorized dealer. Imports of gold are permis- sible only if an import license is obtained. Changes during 1969 January 1. Import duties on some 600 liberal- ized indus tr ial commodities were reduced by 10-30 per cent. A large number of items were removed from the list of prohibited imports or added to the Free Import Orders or the Auto- matic Approval List. Import duties on most of the newly liberalized goods were raised. (Subse- quently, on various dates during the year addi- tional items were added to the Free Import Orders List.) January 1. The special export incentive pay- ments for woolen textiles and cotton cloth were reduced by 10 per cent. The export incentives granted on plywood and dried vegetables were also reduced. January 1. All commodities whose importation was not liberalized were listed in a negative list. January 3. The bilateral payments agreement with Poland was terminated. ISRAEL January 20. Any resident was permitted to accept payment in specified foreign currencies (listed as convertible currencies by the Bank of Israel) from nonresident travelers in Israel for goods and services (except commercial exports and real estate) supplied to such travelers. For- eign currency so acquired must be presented by the recipient to an authorized bank either for credit to a PAZAK account or for conversion into Israel pounds. January 20. Nonresident travelers leaving Israel could reconvert, without presentation of documents, Israel pounds up to the equivalent of US$30. Previously, they could reconvert Israel pounds equ iva lent to US$300, subject to presen- ta t ion of documents. January 20. All licenses authorizing registered exchange dealers to negotiate foreign currency were revoked. Henceforth, the conversion of for- eign notes and coins into Israel notes and coins, and vice versa, could only be effected by author- ized banks. April 11. Students and Israeli citizens residing abroad were granted reductions in travel tax. May 25. The Capital Investments Law was amended. May 28. The travel tax payable by residents traveling abroad was increased. The new rates became I£340 (previously I ,£255) plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket for travel by sea, and I£495 (previously I£290) plus 7.5 per cent of the price of the ticket for travel by air. May 31. The bilateral payments agreement with Turkey was term ina ted. June 30. The bilateral payments agreement with Greece was terminated. October 14. It was announced that import duties on 400 items would be reduced by 5 per cent as f rom Janua ry 1, 1970. November 9. The commercial banks, under an agreement with the Bank of Israel, restricted their lending to importers. Such credits would normally be limited to three months and to a proportion of each import transaction that varied according to the type of commodity. 257 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Exchange Raie System The par va lue is 0.00142187 gram of fine gold per I ta l ian Lira or Lit 625.000 = US$1. M a rk et rates for spot exchange transactions in U.S. dol- lars are ma in ta ined between off ic ial l im i ts of Lit 620.50 buy ing, and Lit 629.50 selling, per US$1. Market rates for certain other currencies 1 vary between l im i ts wh ich resu lt from combining the official limits for the U.S. dollar m a in t a in ed by Italy and such limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. The mone tary au tho r i t ies do not at present in tervene in the for- ward exchange m a rk e t; fo rwa rd p r em iums and discounts are le ft to the in terp lay of ma rket forces. Authorized banks are allowed to engage in spot exchange transactions in any currency, and in forward exchange transactions up to 360 days in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and exter- na l ly convertible European currencies, when deal- ing w i th other banks, or up to 180 days when dealing w i th nonbanks. The permissible am o u nt of fo rwa rd transactions against lire is subject to a l im it on net transactions set ind iv idua l ly for each bank. Forward cover is free ly permitted only for commercial transactions; cover in respect of finan- cial transac t ions requires au thor iza t ion. Transac- tions in fore ign bankno tes take place at f ree ly negotiated rates. Italy accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the Italian Exchange Office (Uff ic io I ta l iano dei Camb i) on the basis of ins truc t ions issued by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. All sales and pur- chases of exchange pass through banks au thor- ized for this purpose. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the M in is try of Finance at the request of the Ministry of Foreign 1 These currencies are listed as Au s t r ian sch i l l ings, Bel- gian (Luxembou rg) francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French f rancs, Ne ther lands gu i lders, No rweg ian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs, wh ich cur- rencies are referred to in this survey as ex te rna l ly con- vertible European currencies, and Canad ian dollars. 258 Trade. Certain imports and exports require the prior visa of the National Foreign Trade Insti- tute. Issues of securities by nonresidents require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and are subject to the rules governing the issuing in Italy of Italian securities. Payments to and from the Republic of San Marino or Vatican City are not subject to exchange control. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th foreign countries must nor- ma l ly be made in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, or ex te rna l ly convertible European currencies, or in l i re on Foreign Accounts. Special arrangements are applicable under debt liquidation agreements w i th Turkey, the United Arab Republic, and Yugoslavia. Nonresident Accounts The ma in types of accounts in Italian lire which nonresidents are allowed to ma in ta in with authorized banks in Italy are Foreign Accounts and Capital Accounts. The use of these accounts, and of Special Accounts for certain investments, is described below. 1. Foreign Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Foreign Accounts, from Capital Accounts, and from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, with authorized current and capital payments, with payments for approved investments abroad by residents of Italy, and with the proceeds from sales of U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European cur- rencies. They may be debited for purchases of any of these currencies, for transfers to any other Foreign Account, Capital Account, or Special Account Under Law No. 43, for paymen ts to resi- dents of I ta ly for cu r rent and capital transac- tions, for paymen ts due to residents of Italy on account of their disinvestments abroad, and for drawings in cash by the holder of the account or his delegates. 2. Capital Accounts may be credited with transfers from Foreign Accounts, from Special Accounts Under Law No. 43, and from other Capital Accounts, with Italian banknotes (in denominations not exceeding Lit 10,000) sent to ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Italy by banks abroad,2 and w i th the proceeds from the l iqu ida t ion of foreign inves tmen ts in Italy not made under the provisions of Law No. 211 of March 2, 1948 or Law No. 43 of Febru- ary 7, 1956 (see be low). Banknotes for deposit in Capital Accounts must be received by parcel post in off ic ial ma il bags dispatched from fore ign banks w i th head offices abroad. Capital Accounts may be debited for t rans fe rs to any other Capital Account or to Foreign Accounts, and for the pu r- chase of inves tmen ts not made under Law No. 43, inc lud ing purchases of personal property or real estate in Italy. 3. Special Accounts Under Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 are accounts in the names of nonresidents who have invested in Italy converti- ble currencies or ex terna l ly convertible European currencies in accordance with the above-men- tioned law. These accounts may be credited w i th the coun te rva lue of convertible currencies sold in Italy, w i th t rans fe rs f rom Foreign Accounts or from o ther Special Accounts, and w i th the pro- ceeds from sales of inves tmen ts that have been made in accordance w i th Law No. 43. They may be debited for purchases of the same currency that was o r ig ina l ly sold and for inves tmen ts in Italy, and balances on them may be transferred to Foreign Accounts, Capital Accounts, or to any other Special Account Under Law No. 43. Nonresidents may also ma in ta in Foreign Accoun ts in foreign currencies. Imports and import Payments All imports of Rhodesian origin are p roh ib i ted. Prac t ica l ly all imports f rom other countries except Japan, ma in land China, North Viet-Nam, and the CMEA coun tr ies are f ree of qu an t i t a t ive restriction; all goods, however, r equ i re a bank certificate for submission to the cus toms au tho r i t ies and some t imes also a license issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance at the request of the M in i s t ry of Foreign Trade. Commod i t ies t h at still requ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses when imported from these other coun- tries are inc luded in a negative list (Tabella A 2 From Feb rua ry 14, 1970, all repa t r ia ted bankno tes had to be sent to branches of the Bank of I ta ly for cred it to Cap i tal Accoun ts established in the names of the r em i t t i ng fo re ign banks. It was la ter stipulated that such notes could on ly be sent to the head office of the Bank of I ta ly. ITALY Import) 3 which includes goods listed under some 26 t a r i ff head ings or the ir parts. Some items in the list require an import license only when o r ig ina t ing in Israel or Yugoslavia. The general permission to import goods not included in the Tabella A Import applies to the Un i ted A rab Repub l ic and Yugoslavia only if the goods both or ig ina te in and are shipped direct f rom the coun t ry concerned; in add i t ion, in respect of impor ts of raw cotton, rice, and crude petroleum f rom the Un i ted Arab Republic, the payee must reside in that country or in one of the European OECD countries. (The value of other imports f rom the Un i ted A rab Repub l ic must be paid to creditors res id ing exclusively in that coun try, and 30 per cent thereof must be paid in I ta l ian lire to the I ta l ian Exchange Off ice .) A more extensive negative list (Tabella B Import) con ta ins those commodities which r equ i re an ind iv idu al license when originating in and impo r ted f rom A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, ma in land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., or North Viet-Nam. The list inc ludes some 110 tar iff items or subitems related to ag r i cu l tu r al produc ts and foods tuffs, and about 840 t a r i ff items or subitems related to other goods. There is a special list of commodities, also inc luded in Tabella B Import whose importation is u n i l a t e r a l ly and de jacto liberalized when they both o r ig ina te in and are shipped from A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, or the U.S.S.R. These goods may be admitted by the customs w i thout a license, although some require a visa issued by the In s t i tu te of Foreign Trade. A simi- lar list exists for m a in l and China. A separate negative list applies to Japan indi- ca t ing the goods (listed under 46 tar iff items or th e ir par ts at the end of 1969) that are subject to res t r ic t ive import licensing when imported from t h at coun try; some 100 other items are included in a special list of commodities for which import licenses are issued freely.4 All other goods of 3 Tabella A Import applies to all coun tr ies except A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, H u n g a r y, Japan, North Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, R um a n i a, U.S.S.R., and North V ie t-Nam. 4 On J a n u a ry 20, 1970 restrictions on imports from Japan of au tomob i les and 18 other items were l i f ted. •r> All goods that are included neither in Tabella A Import nor in List A or List B of Circular No. 606360 of May 28, 1963. 259 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY Japanese origin G may be imported freely w i thout an ind iv idual license, irrespective of the country from which they are shipped. Imports f rom non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC ( inc lud ing cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and poultry mea t) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous bar- riers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fa ts, sugar, and specified f r u i ts and vege- tables. For imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is requ ired; for imports f rom Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the importer is required; for imports over Lit 2 million in va lue, an import document completed by an authorized bank is required. The importer must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domicile, through which he must carry out all payments operations related to his import transactions if settlement takes place more than 360 days a f ter importa- tion. For all authorized imports, the authorized banks provide exchange or permit payment in Italian lire to a nonresident account, provided that appropriate payment terms are observed (see section on Capital, below). International postal money orders may be used to pay for imports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, or any lower amount w i th in the limits established for each country to which this service is pro- vided; amounts in excess of Lit 1 million must be approved by the representative of the Italian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy having jurisdiction for the area concerned. Payments for invisibles In principle, payments abroad for invisibles require licenses issued by the exchange control authorities. Under general authorization, however, the authorized banks may sell foreign exchange freely, provided that the necessary documents are submitted. Exchange is granted freely for remit- tances of earnings on investments. Residents may use international postal money orders for finan- cial payments in the currency and within the 260 l im i ts established for each country; for payments exceeding Lit 1 million, however, prior authoriza- tion is required by the representative of the Ital- ian Exchange Office at the branch of the Bank of Italy hav ing jurisdiction for the area concerned. Certain transactions (but not the related pay- men ts) in respect of services are subject to approval by the Ministry of Foreign Trade or the M in is try of Industry. These transactions can be divided into two groups: (1) contracts which require a perm it if they involve residents of speci- fied coun t r ie s6 and (2) contracts which require a permit regardless of the nationality of the non- residents involved. The first group includes trans- actions giving rise to expenditures for chartering ships (exc lud ing charters for a single t r ip ); repairs to ships which are not urgent and not necessary for safety of operation; news agencies and newspaper correspondents (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a month for the same payee ); purchase of publication rights, informa- tion agencies, etc. ( for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million per contract); copyrights (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million a year per contract); services of professional workers and company managers (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 million); and services of entertainers and athletes (for amounts exceeding Lit 5 m i l l ion). The second group includes transactions giving rise to expendi- tures for production abroad of films, utilization of films, scripts, synchronization, etc.; collaboration in cinematography; insurance of ships and air- c ra ft against risks of operation;7 and other transactions not permitted by general authoriza- tion (provided that the amounts involved exceed Lit 1 million). Residents traveling to foreign countries may obtain from the banks exchange equivalent to Lit 1 million for each tr ip for tourism, business, medical treatment, and education (the corre- sponding amount for group travel is Lit 500,000) ; banks are authorized to supply foreign exchange above these allowances, provided that they are satisfied that no unauthorized capital transfer is 6 Albania, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cambodia, mainland China ( inc lud ing Mongo l ia), Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., North Viet-Nam, and (only for chartering ships) Yugoslavia. 7 Such transactions need authorization by the Ministry of Industry. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution involved. To the extent that he re f ra ins from obtaining an allocation of foreign exchange, a resident traveler may take in addition a propor- tionate amount in Italian banknotes, up to Lit 1 million.8 Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes that they have previously declared upon entry as well as Lit 100,000 in Italian banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to any country of a few commodities in a special list (Tabella Esport) require export licenses. For exports not exceeding Lit 1 million in value, no exchange control form is required; for exports from Lit 1 million to Lit 2 million in value, a form completed by the exporter is required; for exports exceeding Lit 2 million in value, an export document completed by an authorized bank is required. The exporter must choose an authorized bank as his bank of domi- cile, through which he must carry out the pay- ments operations related to his export transac- tions if settlement takes place more than 360 days af ter exportation. Unless special approval is obtained for d i f fe r- ent terms of payment (see section on Capital, below), exchange receipts must be collected within one year 9 of the arrival of the goods in the country of destination, and they must be offered for sale to an authorized bank w i th in 30 days of receipt. Proceeds in U.S. dollars, Cana- dian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies may be retained by authorized banks on behalf of the recipients in foreign exchange accounts for six months, during which period such balances may be used for permitted transac- tions or be sold to authorized banks; the banks are allowed to sell these currencies to residents for authorized transactions or to negotiate them freely with the Italian Exchange Office or among themselves. A f ter expiration of the retention period, unused balances must be sold to the Ital- ian Exchange Office at the lowest official exchange rate quoted during the retention period (these official rates are determined daily on the 8 Persons l iv ing in border areas may not take out more than Lit 50,000 a day in foreign and domestic banknotes and coins combined. 9 Reduced to 120 days a f ter shipment on February 16, 1970. ITALY basis of the average closing rates in Milan and Rome ). Export proceeds may also be received by international postal money order, up to amounts w i th in the limits established for individual coun- tries. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from invisibles are subject to the same requirements as receipts from exports. Ship- ping and insurance companies and travel and for- ward ing agencies may keep operating accounts in U.S. dollars, Canadian dollars, and externally convertible European currencies. Residents may retain up to the equivalent of Lit 200,000 in for- eign banknotes left over from trips abroad and may use this exchange for other trips abroad or sell it at any t ime to an authorized bank. Persons may br ing in any amount in Italian or foreign banknotes. Capital Inward and outward movements of nonresident capital are free. However, loans of any k ind from nonresidents to residents and from residents to nonresidents require specific authorization from the Ministry of the Treasury or the Ministry of Foreign Trade, respectively, except, with regard to OECD countries, long-term loans (other than loans from financial institutions to nonresidents) for the purpose of establishing or ma in ta in ing las t ing economic relations and loans to relatives up to the third degree of relationship, and, with regard to EEC countries, short-term (up to one year and not exceeding Lit 250 million) and med ium- term (up to five years and not exceeding Lit 250 m i l l ion) financial loans (i.e., loans not connected w i th commercial operations or the per- formance of services); for none of these is any kind of authorization required. Repayment of such loans may be made freely. Foreign invest- ment in Italy is, in principle, governed by Law No. 43 of February 7, 1956 and subsequent implementing regulations. Direct investment in OECD countries, by physical or juridical persons (other than partici- pation by a financial institution that has its main office in Italy in a foreign company not having the same corporate purpose), is permitted in any 261 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY fo rm and w i thout any limit. Direct investment in other countries may be made only (under the supervision of the Italian Exchange Off ice) by juridical persons in firms that are in the same line of business as that of the Italian firm mak ing the inves tmen t; other types of direct investment in such countries requ ire special authorization f rom the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The general license to make these investments also covers the reinvestment of earnings and the use for th is pur- pose of the l iqu ida t ion proceeds of previous investments ( a f t er crediting the proceeds of the disinvestment to bank accounts similar to those established for export proceeds; see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, above ). Residents of Italy are free to buy and sell, through the Bank of Italy or the authorized banks, any foreign securities issued or payable abroad and quoted on foreign stock exchanges, and to deal in such securities among themselves against payment in lire. Such foreign securities, except securities of Lit 100,000 or less, have to be deposited with an Italian bank or w i th a bank abroad for account of an Italian bank. In pr inc ip le, the purchase by residents of shares in fore ign mu tual f u n ds is subject to prior au tho r iza t ion by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. In practice, how- ever, a resident is able freely to purchase shares of foreign funds that have received au tho r iza t ion from the Ministry to sell the ir shares in I ta ly, since that authorization is in fact valid also for the ind iv idual resident subscriber. Such au tho r iza t ion is given only to funds meeting certain require- ments, including that of investing at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in I ta l ian securities and th at of setting up a branch office in I ta ly. Residents do not require au thor iza t ion to purchase real estate in EEC countries. All issues of securities by nonresidents on the I ta l ian capital market require the prior approval of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and are subject to the rules governing the issue in I ta ly of domes- tic securities. These rules include the prior approval of the Bank of Italy, and, for issues beyond Lit 500 million, that of the Ministry of the Treasury, the Ministry of Industry, and the Interministerial Credit Committee. Issues are nor- mally restricted to international institutions. Transfers in connection with donations, inherit- 262 anees, and dowries may be made freely. The t rans fer of proper ty of residents leaving Italy per- manen t ly is allowed in two stages: up to the equ iva lent of Lit 6 m i l l ion a person upon persenta- tion of specified documen ts to an authorized bank at the time of leav ing I ta ly, and the remainder, subject to exam ina t ion of the documen ts by the I ta l ian Exchange Office, when residence has been established abroad. Special regulations apply to commercial credits and credits related to the performance of services. Advance paymen ts for imports may be made freely if importation is to take place within 360 days;10 in all other cases, the prior approval of the M in is t ry of Foreign Trade is required. When prepaymen ts for imports exceed Lit 5 million, an advance deposit of 5 per cent is required. Deferred paymen ts for imports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place, to the extent of at least 90 per cent, w i th in 360 days af ter impor ta t ion, and the balance within 24 months a f ter impor ta t ion; such payments require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office if the settlement is to take place between 12 months and 24 months a f ter importation. In all other cases, the prior approval of the Ministry of For- eign Trade is required. Advance paymen ts for exports may be received freely if exportation is to take place within 360 days; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the Italian Exchange Office. Deferred paymen ts for exports are permitted freely if settlement is to take place to the extent of at least 90 per cent, within 360 days ll after exportation, and the balance w i th in 24 months af ter exportation; in all other cases, such receipts require the prior approval of the M in is try of For- eign Trade. V ir tua l ly identical regulations are in force for the perm i t ted credit terms for imports and exports of services. In relations with EEC countries, the reciprocal gran t ing of credits for commercial transactions or the performance of services, with a maturity longer than the time limits that banks are author- 10 Reduced to 30 days on February 16, 1970. 11 Reduced to 120 days on February 16, 1970. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ized to approve and up to five years, may be effected af ter examination of the documents by the Italian Exchange Office. Loans and credits (the latter only beyond a certain duration, generally 180-360 days) not connected with commercial transactions or with the performance of services require the approval of the M in is try of Foreign Trade. However, finan- cial loans may be granted to or by residents of EEC countries as indicated above. Authorized banks must as a general rule ma in ta in approxi- mately balanced foreign exchange positions, i.e., the amount of the ir foreign assets must not nor- ma l ly be lower than that of the deposits they have obtained from nonresidents; banks have been requested not to m a in t a in a net foreign credit position du r ing the second ha lf of 1969.12 The export is not permitted of securities, except those wh ich are owned by non res iden ts and have been purchased against U.S. dollars, Canad ian dollars, or externally convertible Euro- pean currencies, or against funds on a Foreign Account or a Cap i tal Account. Gold Residents may freely hold and negotiate gold in any fo rm in Italy. The monetary au thor i t ies may free ly acqu ire un re f ined gold abroad. Agent banks that have been authorized by the M in is try of the Treasury may acqu ire un re f ined gold abroad upon submission of licenses issued by the M in is- try of Foreign Trade to I t a l i an firms for indu s- trial use. Imports of wrought and s em im a n u- factured gold, inc lud ing jewe l ry, are subject to licensing. Exports of w rought and sem imanu fac- tured gold other t h an j ew e l ry also r e q u i re licenses. Comme rc ial impo r ts of a r t ic les con ta in- ing a m inor q u a n t i ty of gold, such as wa tche s, are liberalized. Changes during 1969 January 1. Additional were liberalized. imports from Japan February 18. The Bank of Italy ceased to no t i fy the exchange market of the da i ly l im i ts 12 From Ap r il 1970, authorized banks were pe rm i t ted to m a i n t a in a fore ign debit position in an amount not exceeding that by wh ich they increased th e ir export financing. ITALY w i th in which it would buy or sell foreign curren- cies spot. As a result, the U.S. dollar appreciated. February 21. Persons living in border areas and crossing the border for a temporary stay in a neighboring country could not take out more t h an the equ iva lent of Lit 50,000 a day in for- eign or domestic currency; this amount could be taken out in one or more border crossings on the same day. Prev ious ly, there were var ious l im i ts established locally by individual border authorities. March 3. The Bank of Italy temporarily sus- pended the supply of U.S. dollars to the spot exchange ma rke t. March 22. The Treasury and the Bank of Italy requested authorized banks to liquidate their net creditor position abroad and to balance their net foreign position by June 30. April 1. Authorized banks required prior au tho r i z a t ion by the Bank of Italy to participate in synd ica tes and consortia placing or underwr i t- ing new issues of Euro-bonds or other foreign securities. Such permission was granted restric- t ive ly, while previously authorization was auto- matic w i th in a revolving allocation of foreign exchange. All promotional activity concerning such new issues was prohibited; promotional ac t iv i ty was also prohibited for shares of foreign inv e s tm ent f u n d s, unless at least 50 per cent of th e ir portfolio consisted of Italian securities. Issues by companies opera t ing in terna t iona l ly and hav ing direct or indirect interests in I ta ly were not restricted. April 1. All transfers abroad of emigrants' assets in excess of Lit 6 million were made sub- ject to pr ior exam ina t ion of the relevant documen ts by the I ta l ian Exchange Office. Previously, such t rans fe rs could be approved by authorized banks. The same requ irement was applied to transfers to foreign accounts or deposits from the domestic accounts or deposits of residents permanently t rans fe r r ing the ir residence abroad. April 1. I ta l ian industrial and commercial firms in the nonferrous metals sector and silver proces- sors were perm i t ted to enter in to fu tu r es transac- tions in copper, t in, lead, zinc, and silver on the New York market. April 8. The Bank of Italy suspended g ran t ing of permission to authorized banks the to 263 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ITALY participate in syndicates for the placing of foreign securities in Italy when the conditions on which the securities were to be offered did not corre- spond to those to which the Bank of Italy sub- jects issues of domestic securities. April 8. The acquisition by residents of shares of any type of foreign investment fund required, in principle, prior authorization by the Ministry of Foreign Trade. (Previously, such authorization was not required for purchases of closed-end funds whose shares were listed on a recognized stock exchange and whose portfolio consisted only of listed securities.) In practice, however, residents could freely acquire shares in foreign f u n ds author- ized by the Ministry to sell their shares in Italy. Such authorization was granted only to funds meeting certain requirements, including those of investing at least 50 per cent of their portfolio in Italian securities and of setting up a branch office in Italy. April 12. Credit insititutions and securities bro- kers were requested to promote the sale of listed Italian securities. April 17. The amount of funds available for export credit insurance through the National Insurance Institute was increased from Lit 500 bil- lion to Lit 900 billion. April 28. Italian residents selling real estate located in Italy against Italian banknotes pre- sented by nonresidents were made subject to pen- alty if they were not able to prove to the Italian Exchange Office the foreign origin of the funds used. May 30. The Bank of Italy no longer accepted repatriated banknotes in denominations of over Lit 10,000 for credit to Capital Accounts. July 14. The Italian Exchange Office was authorized to make available to the Treasury up to US$100 million in foreign exchange to finance purchases abroad of scientific instruments and technological equipment not yet produced in Italy. The f u nd was to be administered by IMI (Istituto Mobiliare Italiano) which would make loans to public or private institutions, universities, and industrial enterprises to finance imports of these goods. Imports financed by such loans were to be free of all taxes and customs duties. 264 July 19. The value of imports from the United Arab Republic of commodities other than raw cotton, rice, and crude petroleum could no longer be paid to creditors residing either in that country or in one of the European OECD countries but had to be paid to creditors residing exclusively in the United Arab Republic, and 30 per cent of the amounts concerned had to be paid in Italian lire to the Italian Exchange Office, to be disposed of by the Bank of Italy. (With effect from Janu- ary 30, 1970, payment for raw cotton, rice, and crude petroleum could be made either to the United Arab Republic or to any OECD country, while payment for other imports from the United Arab Republic had to be made 30 per cent into the U.A.R. account at the Italian Exchange Office and 70 per cent to the United Arab Republic or to any OECD country.) July 30. Authorized banks were provisionally empowered, subject to compliance with certain requirements, to issue to their resident clients maintaining checking accounts with them, checks expressed in Italian lire that could be spent abroad. August 5. The regulations concerning the mu- tual granting of financial short-term and medium- term loans between residents of Italy and resi- dents of other EEC countries were amended; such loans could be granted by Italian residents only up to a total of Lit 250 million for each applicant and repayment must be guaranteed by a well-known foreign bank. Each beneficiary would have to certify that he had not received any other loan from an Italian resident which would raise his total receipts from such loans above Lit 250 million. Corresponding regulations were applied to loans granted by residents of other EEC member countries to residents of Italy. September 10. Authorized banks were freely permitted to grant guarantees to foreign banks for loans made by the latter in local currency to branches, affiliates, subsidiaries, or partners of Italian firms, provided that the credits were related to deliveries or works to be executed locally and that the underlying transaction had been generally or individually permitted. September 10. Residents were required to deposit with an authorized bank, within 30 days of the date on which they took possession of them, all stocks, bonds, or investment fund shares that ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution they acquired in any manner, when such securities had either been issued abroad or were payable abroad. October 22. Italy and the other member coun- tries of the EEC signed a one-year agreement w i th Japan, retroactive to October 1, concerning trade in cotton textiles. Japan would restrain exports to the countries concerned of certain items whose importation had previously been restricted by import quotas. ITALY October 27. Italian industrial firms in the pre- cious metals sector were freely permitted to carry out fu tu res transactions in palladium and plati- num in New York. October 28. The regulations concerning fu tu res transactions in cotton on the New York market were extended to dealings on the London- Liverpool exchange. 265 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST 1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Ivory Coast has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French franc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned, and include a com- mission. Ivory Coast's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1 ) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union —UMOA — ( Dahomey, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l t a ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Ivory Coast itself, are considered foreign coun- tries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, how- ever, the countries listed above are also consid- ered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Sub- Directorate of Credit and External Finance of the Directorate of Public Accounts and the Treasury in the M in is try of Economy and Finance, which 1 In view of changes that took place on February 4, 1970 (see note at the end of this survey), this survey presents the position on that date. 2 The CFA franc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Maur i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 266 also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast, and inward and outward investment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect any infor- mation necessary to compile the balance of pay- ments statistics, either directly or through the in te rmed ia ry of banks, other financial institutions, the Postal Administration, and notaries public. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the Sub-Directorate for Licenses and Foreign Trade Regulations in the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Import cer- tificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself. Prescription of Currency Ivory Coast is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France (and its Overseas Departments and Territories, except that of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the curren- cies of those countries —provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Rhode- sia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. imports and import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports from the Canary Islands, ma in land China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, Pakistan, and Portugal are suspended. A few imports f rom all sources are prohibited (a specified type of cof- fee-husking machine and wheat flour) or subject to import license (sugar, paint, matches, and detergents). Imports of certain commodities, inc lud ing rice, are linked to purchases of the domestic product (jumelage). All o ther imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. V ir tua l ly all imports originating in and shipped from EEC countries other than France also are free from quan t i ta t ive restrictions. As a rule, imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area requ ire import licenses and may be made in accordance with an import pro- gram, which is de term ined annua l ly by the Direc- torate of Foreign Trade. Under this program, sem iannual global quotas are established for imports from such countries and special quotas for imports from countries with which Ivory Coast ma in ta ins bilateral trade agreements.3 The program also includes indicative quotas for the EEC countries. The quotas establish limits up to which import licenses may be issued, for specified commodities, to licensed importers and, in excep- tional cases, to indus tr ial or agr icu l tural produ- cers who are considered as end-users of the imported goods. Certain products, contained in separate liberalized lists, may be imported freely from any source, f rom the fo rmer OEEC coun- tries, or from Canada and the United States, respectively. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 20,000. The import licenses or impo rt cer t if ica tes en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than e ight days before shipment if a documen tary cred it is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the 3 Ivory Coast has bilateral trade agreements w i th Algeria, Bulgaria, Denmark, Hungary, Israel, No rway, Poland, R um a n i a, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, Tun is ia, and Un i ted A rab Repub l ic. IVORY COAST other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other coun tr ies are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling to coun- tries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange remaining a f t er re tu rn to Ivory Coast must be surrendered. The t rans fer of the f u ll basic salary of a foreigner working in Ivory Coast is permitted upon pre- sentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a m ax imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bankno tes issued by other Opera- tions Account countries. Travelers to other coun- tries may take out any amount in BCEAO bank- notes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the UMOA, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonres ident travelers may take out foreign bankno tes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try, or up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 if they have made no declaration on en try. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports are free of license and require a declara- tion only. Exports of agricultural commodities, however, requ ire the visa of the Sub-Directorate for Licenses and Foreign Trade Regulations. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered within two months of the due date but not, in principle, more than 180 days af ter the arr ival of the goods at their destination. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. 267 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of banknotes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; resi- dents bringing in foreign banknotes must sell them to an authorized bank within eight days and must declare them to the customs upon entry. Capital All capital movements between Ivory Coast and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Ivory Coast and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward and outward direct investment, and over the issu- ing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those relating to foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and institutions, and over all publicity aimed at plac- 268 ing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Ivory Coast requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance.4 Foreign direct invest- ments in Ivory Coast,5 must be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration, during which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The liquidation of investments, whether direct investments or not, in Ivory Coast or abroad must similarly be declared in advance to the Minister. Both the making and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Ivory Coast investments abroad or foreign investments in Ivory Coast, must be reported to the Minister within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments implying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Ivory Coast requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, as do issues by Ivory Coast companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are opera- tions in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Ivory Coast Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Ivory Coast has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance. The following are, how- ever, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject 4 Including those made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Ivory Coast and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Ivory Coast. 5 Including :hose made by companies in Ivory Coast that are directly or indirectly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Ivory Coast of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to prior declaration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Ivory Coast, or by international trading houses to finance international merchanting transactions; (3) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 mil- lion for any one borrower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not consti- tuting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Law No. 59-134 of September 3, 1959 pro- vides tax and customs du ty benefits and other special privileges for new enterprises recognized as hav ing priority status. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Ivory Coast. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Economy and Finance, which is rarely granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a max imum weight to be determined by the Minis- ter. Both licensed and exempt imports and ex- ports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1969 February 4. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 1 to the banks concerning their foreign assets and liabilities. February 10. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-à-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO. February 10. Another financial institution was appointed as an authorized Order No. 5200. IVORY COAST intermediary by February 10. The Directorate of External Finance and Credit became the Sub-Directorate of Credit and External Finance in the Directorate of Public Accounts and the Treasury. February 19. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 2 to the authorized banks only concerning their forward assets and liabilities. March 6. Notice No. 6 was issued concerning tourist travel allocations. The declaration require- ment for foreign currency brought in by travelers, wh ich previously applied to nonresidents only, was extended to residents. March 8. Decree No. 69/80 established that no jewelry or art objects made in Ivory Coast of gold of a fineness equal to or exceeding 750 thousandths could be offered for sale without the new ha l lma rk of the Service of the Mines. March 24. Notice No. 7 was issued concerning forward purchases of exchange for imports. Rice was added to the list of commodities for which such facilities were available. April 4. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 3 to the banks concerning the control of their for- eign claims and liabilities. June 24. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 4 to the banks concerning their foreign assets and liabilities. July 30. Notice No. 8 was issued concerning nonresident suspense accounts and suspense dos- siers (Comptes d'attente and Dossiers d'attente). July 30. Notice No. 9 was issued concerning the opening of foreign accounts and security dos- siers for persons previously resident who became nonresidents. July 31. Notice No. 10 was issued concerning insurance and reinsurance. July 31. Notice No. 11 was issued concerning the allocation of exchange for study abroad. The amounts were specified that authorized banks could grant. For living expenses, these amounts were for nonboarding single persons US$300 a month for the United States and the equivalent of 269 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution IVORY COAST CFAF 50,000 a month for other foreign coun- tries. July 31. Notice No. 12 was issued concerning transfers of wages and salaries by foreign work- ers. They could transfer up to 50 per cent of their gross basic salary or up to 75 per cent when the f am i ly remained in the worker's coun try of origin. July 31. Notice No. 13 was issued concerning fam i ly remittances. The amount up to which the approval au tho r i ty was delegated to authorized banks was set at CFAF 20,000 a month for each applicant. July 31. Notice No. 14 was issued concerning transfers of salaries to government officials sta- tioned abroad and to personnel abroad for cul- tu ral or technical cooperation purposes. July 31. Notice No. 15 was issued concerning the allocation of exchange to travelers in special cases not foreseen by Order No. 8813 or Notice No. 6. July 31. Notice No. 16 was issued concerning cu r rent paymen ts to foreign countries that could be approved by authorized banks. This delegated au thor i ty was set at CFAF 250,000 a person for transfers by emigrants and transfers of dowries. Among the other current payments that could be approved by authorized banks were transfers of assets of repatriates and of inheritances devolved upon nonresidents. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 211.110 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, the Mala- gasy franc, and the Mali f ranc rema ined unchanged. August 28. Notice No. 4 bis was issued con- cerning the domiciliation of export transactions and concerning controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. August 28. Notice No. 3 bis was issued con- cerning the domiciliation of import transactions and the payment for imports from foreign coun- tries. Provisions regarding imports from Ghana and Liberia were added to Notice No. 3 of December 31, 1968. 270 September 12. Notice No. 17 was issued con- cerning the reporting requirements for authorized banks with respect to receipts from foreign coun- tries and debits to Foreign Accounts in Francs. November 4. Notice No. 13 bis was issued concerning fam i ly remittances. November 12. Notice No. 18 was issued con- cerning the domiciliation by traders resident in France of imports from non-Franc Area countries into Operations Account countries and exports f rom the latter to countries outside the French Franc Area. November 21. Decree No. 69-488 was issued concerning certain investment and borrowing transac t ions w i th foreign countries. It modified the capital controls introduced by Decree No. 67-286 of June 30, 1967; Articles 3 to 14 of that Decree were revoked. For purposes of investment and borrowing transactions, foreign countries continued to be def ined as in Order No. 8816 of December 23, 1968, i.e., as countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries. All payments received from foreign countries by an authorized bank for the account of a resident had to be declared to the Minister of Economy and Finance. All pay- men ts and receipts relating to the transactions mentioned below had to be channeled through authorized banks. Henceforth all investments made abroad by residents required the prior authorization of the Minister of Economy and Finance; previously, direct investments required only prior declaration to the Minister, after which the latter had two mon ths to request postponement. The liquidation of investments abroad continued to be subject to prior declaration. These provisions also applied to the mak ing and liquidation of investments abroad by nonresident companies directly or indi- rectly controlled by persons in Ivory Coast or so controlled by branches abroad of residents. Direct investment in Ivory Coast remained subject to prior declaration, after which the Min- ister could during a two-month period request postponement. The proceeds of the liquidation by a nonresident of direct investments or other investments could be transferred abroad after sub- mission of supporting documents to the Minister. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Borrowing abroad remained subject to prior authorization by the Minister. The exemptions from this requirement were redefined. The report- ing requ iremen ts for amounts borrowed or repaid were revised. The repayment of any foreign bor- rowing, whe ther authorized or exempt f rom authorization, required the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requ i rement were loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. December 17. Notice No. 12 was corrected to read that foreign workers could t r an s f er th e ir f u ll basic remune ra t ion. NOTE. —The fo l low ing changes took place ear ly in 1970: January 16. Notice No. 19 was issued concern- ing the app l ica t ion of Decree No. 69-488. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt from prior au tho r iza t ion as follows: (1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meet- ing the following cond i t ions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immed ia te ly by sale of fore ign cu r rency on the exchange ma rket or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the a n n u al interest rate mu st not exceed the normal ma rket rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repa id, inc lud ing the new transac t ion, must not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion; (d) the contract or exchange of letters must be submitted to the au thor ized bank. ( 3) Loans taken up abroad by i n d u s t r i al firms to finance transactions abroad, taken up by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports f rom Ivory Coast, or taken up by in te rna t ional t r ad ing houses to finance in te rna t ional me rchan t ing trans- actions. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct inves tment required the special authoriza- tion of the M in is ter if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special au thor iza t ion. The repayment of all loans contracted before the pub l ica t ion of Decree No. 69-488 also required such special au thor iza t ion. IVORY COAST There were special provisions concerning the extension of existing borrowings and about advance repayment. January 21. Notice No. 20 was issued con- cern ing expenses and receipts of foreign ships in Ivory Coast and of national ships abroad. Spe- cial accounts for these purposes were introduced (Comptes d'escale). February 4. Decree No. 70-73 was issued con- cern ing ce r ta in financial transactions w i th foreign countries. For purposes of this Decree, foreign coun tr ies were def ined as all coun t r ies other than Ivory Coast. It revoked Decree No. 67-286 of J u ne 30, 1967. The p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the Minister was requ ired fo r: (1) the issuing, adver t is ing, or offer- ing for sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign pub l ic organ iza t ions or companies, and in t e rn a t ion al in s t i tu t ion s; (2) the soliciting in any way of f u n ds for deposit w i th foreign private persons and fore ign firms or i n s t i t u t i o n s; and (3) any pub l ic i ty w i th a view to p lac ing of f u n ds abroad or subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad. Exempt from special or general perm iss ion, however, were the va r ious activities men t ioned above when re la t ing to loans guaranteed by the Ivory Coast Gove rnment or re la t ing to shares s im i l ar to secur i t ies whose issu ing or offer- ing for sale in Ivo ry Coast had prev ious ly been au tho r ized. The impo rt and export of gold required the pr ior approval of the Minister. Exempt were: ( 1 ) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tu red ar t ic les con ta in ing a m inor qu an t i ty of gold; and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a m a x im um weight to be announced by the M in is ter. Residents t rave l ing to France, Monaco, or Opera t ions Account countries outside the West A f r i c an Mone tary Un ion were required to declare to the customs the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were ca r ry ing if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. 271 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA Exchange Rale System The par value is 1.06641 grams of fine gold per Jamaica Dollar or J$l •= US$1.20. The cur- rency is freely convertible into sterling at parity, subject to banking commissions. Exchange rates for other currencies, except the Guyana dollar and the Trinidad and Tobago dollar, which also have a fixed official relationship with sterling, are based on the buying and selling rates in the London market. The Bank of Jamaica is author- ized by law to levy a commission charge of up to 3A of 1 per cent on inward and outward transfers of sterling; on December 31, 1969 these charges on dealings in sterling with the commercial banks were y16 of 1 per cent on inward transfers and 3A of 1 per cent on outward transfers. The commercial banks apply the same commission charges in dealing w i th their customers, with an additional charge of y16 of 1 per cent on inward transfers in the form of demand or sight items. The result is a selling rate of J$2.0150 per <£ stg. 1 and buy ing rates of J$ 1.99875 for telegraphic trans- fers and J$ 1.9975 for sight or demand drafts. For dealings in Guyana dollars and Trinidad and Tobago dollars, however, they charge a commis- sion of 1A of 1 per cent, buying and selling. Jamaica accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 22, 1963. Administration of Control The Bank of Jamaica administers exchange control on behalf of the Ministry of Finance, sub- ject to certain l im i ta t ions in respect of which the approval of the Ministry is required. The com- mercial banks are designated as authorized deal- ers and have au thor i ty to release foreign exchange for imports, basic travel allowances, and certain other payments. Most imports are regulated by the Trade Administrator, who is responsible to the Ministry of Trade and Indus- try. Prescription of Currency Jamaica is a member of the Sterling Area and has prescription of currency requirements similar to those of other Sterling Area countries. Settle- 272 ments with other parts of the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area may be made by crediting Jamaica dollars to an External Account or in any foreign currency.1 Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be received to the debit of an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rho- desia, and all payments to Rhodesia require spe- cific authorization. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Jamaica and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area. The commercial banks are empowered to open Ex ternal Accounts in Jamaica dollars for resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area, except Rhodesia. The funds on these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred freely between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be credited with pay- ments by residents of the Sterling Area approved by the exchange control authorities, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer of gold or foreign currencies. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for the purchase of foreign currencies. Accounts which are credited with funds that may not be placed at the free disposal of nonresi- dents (e.g., proceeds from the sale of sterling and Jamaica dollar securities or other capital pro- ceeds) are designated Blocked Accounts. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Sterling Area securi- ties which are not redeemable either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition; the income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeem- able, are normally available for credit to an Exter- nal Account. Applications for the release of 1 Foreign currencies are all non-Sterling Area cur- rencies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution funds in Blocked Accounts for use in Jamaica by the nonresident owner must be referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Following the United Kingdom's decision to dispense with Blocked Accounts, Jamaica decided to continue blocking procedures but on a less rigid basis. The assets of residents emigrating to countries outside the Sterling Area after July 1966, however, are restricted for a period of four years, as before. Imports and Import Payments Most goods may be imported freely under an open general license.2 All imports originating in mainland China, Japan, the CMEA countries, Rhodesia, South Africa, or Cuba require individ- ual import licenses. Licenses for imports from Japan are issued according to criteria of essenti- ality. Some 170 ta r i ff items or groups of ta r i ff items included in a special schedule of exceptions to the open general license are subject to individ- ual licensing irrespective of country of origin unless the goods originate in and are consigned from An t igua, Barbados, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, or Trinidad and Tobago. The special schedule comprises ( 1) goods for which specific quotas are assigned to importers accord- ing to their past performance, e.g., certain types of footwear (for these items import licenses are granted by the Trade Adm in is tra tor against allot- ted quo tas ); (2) goods which are prohibited, e.g., automobiles w i th a wheel base over 116 inches, canned milk, cement, cigars, citrus prod- ucts, cheap clothing, household detergents, sugar, and coffee; and ( 3) goods the licensing of which depends upon local supply, e.g., poultry, eggs, and vegetables. Payments for imports from the Sterling Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area cur- rency. Payments for imports from other countries may be made by crediting an External Account 2 The open general license applies to all countries ex- cept Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Japan, No r th Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, South Afr ica, U.S.S.R., and Nor th Viet-Nam. Goods imported under the license must be consigned from one of the per- mitted countries and must also originate in a permitted country. JAMAICA or by purchasing non-Sterling Area currency from an authorized dealer, provided that the licensing requirements, if any, have been met, and th at the importer presents a copy of the set- tlement invoice or other evidence of purchase and value, together with documentary evidence that the goods either have been shipped or are about to be shipped, or that the importer is under con- tract to make prepayment up to six months prior to sh ipmen t; specific exchange control approval is required for advance payments preceding ship- ment by more than six months. Certain goods are subject to a 5 per cent con- sump t ion tax (2l/2 per cent on coloring mate- rials), whether they are imported or manu- factured domestically. Where such goods are imported, the tax is collected at the port of entry and is calculated on the sum of the value accepted for customs, plus the customs du ty plus the tonnage tax. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles originating in the Ster- l ing Area may be made freely in any Sterling Area currency. Payments for invisibles originating outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the authorities. Except for transactions involving residents of Rhodesia, the following applies. Bona fide current payments are not restricted. Approval is granted freely for payments for all commercial transactions, when the application is supported by the appropriate documentary evidence. For payments for certain other purposes, e.g., insurance premiums, approval is granted upon request. A basic exchange allocation of J$500 for each journey for travel other than for business and professional reasons outside the Sterling Area is made available automatically to residents by the authorized dealers; the central bank au thor izes the release of additional amounts for bona fide tour ist travel. Facilities for travel for business and professional reasons outside the Sterling Area may be provided by authorized banks at the rate of J$40 a day for a period of one month. Expenses for hotel accommodations, meals en route, etc., th at are settled in Jamaica in sterling must be deducted from the travel alloca- tions. Authorized dealers may, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence, sell non-Ster- 273 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA l ing Area currency for the following: refunds of income tax due to nonresidents; consular fees w i thout l im i t, as well as transfers from the Minis- try of External A f fa i rs to accounts in the names of embassies and their established staffs, High Commissioners, and diplomats; up to a limit of J$2,000 for ( 1) advertising and promotional expenses, (2) renewal and re fund of premiums due to nonresident insurers, and (3) subscrip- tions to trade organizations; up to a limit of J$4,000 for commissions and expenses due by Jamaican firms to their agents and representatives and for serial rights in Jama ica of newspaper and magazine articles, photographs, strip cartoons, etc.; up to a l im it of J$5,000, specified payments that are due by Jamaican insurers to nonresident insured parties under l i fe or endowment insur- ance policies, and agents' expenses and fees due by Jama ican insurers to nonresidents in respect of d irect insurance policies. Requests for addi- tional amoun ts or for purposes for which there are no standard l im i ts (e.g., remittances by chari- table ins t i tu t ions) are approved if the authorities are satisfied that no capital flight is involved. Travelers going abroad may take with them Jamaica banknotes not exceeding J$20 and other notes, w i th the exception of U.K. notes, not exceeding J$200 in value. Nonresidents may take out the foreign currency notes they brought in. Exports and Export Proceeds All goods valued at not more than J$20 may be freely exported by post or air express to any country not on the prohibited list. Where the value exceeds J$20, the goods may be exported to all countries except those on the prohibited list, but a specific license is required for the export of certain agricultural products, ammuni- tion, explosives, firearms, antique fu rn i tu r e, ready- made garments, gold bullion, mineral and metal ores, and an t ique paintings. The prohibited list of countries comprises Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Ru- man ia, South Africa, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam; exports to these countries are prohib- ited. Exporters to countries in the Sterling Area are not required to repatriate their export 274 proceeds;3 exporters to other countries are re- quired to surrender their exchange proceeds, which must be obtained in a non-Sterling Area currency, to authorized dealers within six months from the da te of shipment. However, certain exporters may re ta in, with the approval of the exchange control authorities, an agreed portion of their proceeds to fac i l i ta te the import of items necessary for their operations. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area currencies must be sold to an authorized dealer. Receipts in Sterling Area currencies may be re ta ined. Travelers to Jamaica may bring in Jama ica bankno tes up to J$20 (i.e., £, stg. 10) a traveler, notes of other Sterling Area territories up to an aggregate value of J$20 a traveler, and any amount of non-Sterling Area banknotes; resi- dent travelers are required to sell their holdings of non-Sterling Area currencies to a local author- ized dealer. Capital There are no restrictions on investments in the Sterling Area by residents of Jamaica. Invest- men ts in non-Sterling Area securities require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such securities must be purchased with invest- ment currency, which may be obtained only in the Un i ted Kingdom. The sale of securities, whether sterling securities or foreign currency securities, by residents of Jamaica to nonresidents of the Sterling Area may be allowed, provided that the fu ll proceeds are received in External Account sterling or in non-Sterling Area cur- rency; the latter must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Jamaica. Purchases of prop- erty for personal use outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities, and such property may be purchased only through the United Kingdom and only with property currency. Residents must obtain prior approval from the Bank of Jamaica to make cash gifts, which cannot exceed J$500 in a calendar 3 With effect from January 26, 1970, the proceeds from exports to Sterling Area countries are also re- quired to be surrendered. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution year from each donor, to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Direct inves tmen ts in the Sterling Area may be made free ly by residents. Direct investments in other countries are only permitted through the investment currency ma rket in the United King- dom. Direct investments in Jama ica by nonresidents of Jama ica for which "approved status" is sought requ ire the approval of the exchange control authorities (wh ich is usua l ly granted) and must be made in the currency appropriate to the coun- try of permanent residence of the investor, in Ex ternal Account sterling, or in goods and serv- ices in l ieu of cash. To q u a l i fy for "approved status," an enterprise mu st have adequate capital and the nonres ident investor mu st take an active part in managemen t. For foreign inves tmen ts granted "approved status," repa t r ia t ion of the capital ( in c lud ing any appreciation in va lue) is perm i t ted at any t ime; rem i t tances of profits and dividends are permitted when the application is supported by the appropriate set of accounts. Rem i t tances of profits resu l t ing from foreign inve s tment in respect of which "approved status" was not sought or granted are not restricted, but the realization of the invested capital (if the enterprise is bought by a res iden t) may have to be effected through the mechan ism of Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). In practice, under a procedure intro- duced in 1968, all direct or portfolio investment in Jama ica by nonres iden ts of the Sterling Area, w i th the exception of investment in land, is guar- anteed repa t r ia t ion at the m a r k et rate of exchange. Paymen ts for amo r t iza t ion of, and interest on, foreign loans (i.e., loans made by nonresidents of the Sterling A rea) are permitted upon application to the exchange control au thor i t ies. However, nonresidents of the Sterling Area are not nor- mally permitted to take security in respect of loans made to Jamaican companies owned or controlled by them. Authorized dealers may, without reference to the exchange control authori- ties, make loans or overdrafts to non-Sterling Area residents up to J$2,000 for certain specified purposes. Authorized dealers may also w i thout reference to the exchange control authorities JAMAICA make loans or overdrafts to resident companies or branches controlled by nonresidents of the Sterling Area, up to J$20,000, provided that the borrower is not specifically precluded under some prior conditional permission from the exchange control au thor i t ies. Other requests are referred to the Bank of Jamaica. Transfers to beneficiaries resident outside Jama ica under wills and intestacies are approved, provided that all local indebtedness has been met. Repa tr ia tes tak ing up residence in the country of the ir n a t ion a l i ty outside the Sterling Area may t ran s fer all the ir sterling assets at the official m a rk et rate of exchange. Jama ican nationals emi- g r a t ing to countries outside the Sterling Area are gran ted a se t t l ing- in allowance of the equivalent of J$ 10,000 at the official ma rket rate of exchange; any sterling assets in excess of the allowance are restricted for four years but may at any t ime be t rans fe r red outside the Sterling Area through the inves tment currency market in the Un i ted K ingdom. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Jama ica for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary au tho r i t i es and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other th an jewe l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry requ i re licenses issued by the Ministry of F inance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1969 Du r ing the year, many imports were added to the list of exceptions to the open general license; on ly selected instances are mentioned below. February 11. Coconuts and copra were made subject to specific import licensing. February 28. The Bank of Jamaica's commis- sion charge on outward transfers was increased f rom l/2 of 1 per cent to 3A of 1 per cent. From September 20, 1968, the higher charge had already been applicable to banks transferring 275 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAMAICA funds to London requirements. in excess of their normal March 15. The prohibition on certain imports from Japan was lifted; inter alia, some food items, optical instruments, medical supplies, and commercial fishing gear became eligible for import licenses, but textiles remained subject to prohibition. September 8. A new currency unit, the Jamaica dollar, replaced the Jamaican pound. A par value of J$l •= US$1.20 was agreed with the Fund. Previously, the par value had been £ J 1 = US$2.40. The change did not involve any appreciation or depreciation of the Jamaican cur- rency. October 28. Banks were instructed to limit credit for imports of most consumer goods to the level of October 31. October 28. Limits were imposed on the amount of banks' loans and advances to nonresi- dent persons, including nonresident-controlled companies (whether controlled by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area or residents of the Sterling Area excluding Jama ica ). Previously, only lending to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area was subject to control. December 1. An intraregional settlements agreement between the central banks of Jamaica, Guyana, and Trinidad and Tobago came into effect. 276 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.00246853 gram of fine gold per Japanese Yen or V 360.00 = US$1. The official limits of buy ing and selling rates for U.S. dollars (spot), which are set by the M in is t ry of Finance are Y 362.70 (upper l im i t) and Y 357.30 (lower l im i t ), per US$1; the exchange authorities will buy or sell exchange at rates within th is range. Authorized banks may freely carry out spot and forward exchange transactions. Japan accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from April 1, 1964. Administration of Control The exchange control system is operated by the M in is try of Finance, the Ministry of Interna- tional Trade and Industry (M IT I ), and the Bank of Japan as the Government's agent. However, much of the authority for approving normal pay- ments is delegated to authorized banks. Import and export licensing is handled by MITI. Inward capital investments of a long-term character require the approval of the Minister of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases that of the Minister of Finance on ly) after delibera- tion by the Foreign Investment Council. Outward capital investments require the approval of the Minister of Finance. Prescription of Currency Payments to all countries may be made in any currency, and receipts may be obtained in any of the designated receivable currenc ies ;1 receipts in other currencies require an individual license. Set- dements in yen with foreign countries must be made through a Nonresident Free Yen Account. All payments to Rhodesia require prior approval by the Minister of Finance or the Minister of International Trade and Industry; in many cases 1 In addition to yen, the designated receivable cur- rencies are Australian dollars, Aus tr ian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. such payments are prohibited or restricted for security reasons. Nonresident Accounts There are two main nonresident accounts, as described below. 1. Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. These accounts may in principle be opened by any non- resident with any authorized bank in Japan and may be credited with the yen proceeds from exports of goods to Japan and from other author- ized transactions incidental thereto, with yen pro- ceeds from sales of designated receivable foreign currencies, with transfers from other Free Yen Accounts, with balances outstanding on July 31, 1969 on Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts (see be low), and with the countervalue in yen of authorized ou tward payments. There are no re- strictions on payments from these accounts. The yen balances on these accounts may be converted into any foreign currency. 2. Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident with any authorized bank in Japan. They may be cred- ited with yen proceeds from transactions other than those which are authorized to be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Permitted credits to Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are l im i ted ma in ly to proceeds from the sales of debenture and beneficiary certificates sold within six months from the date of validated acquisition and yen in excess of the amount of US$50,000 wh ich emigrants of foreign nationality leaving Japan permanen t ly are allowed to take out of Japan. Balances outstanding on July 31, 1969 may be t rans fe r red to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts or be remitted abroad. Balances accrued a f ter that date are not convertible into foreign currencies, although remittances are per- mitted each year up to 30 per cent of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of US$2,000, whichever is the higher. Withdraw- als from these accounts are authorized for certain purposes, such as meeting the outlays involved in managing investments in Japan and the expenses of nonresidents staying in Japan. Transfers to other Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts are 277 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN authorized free ly, thus enabling the individual account holder to repatriate his funds by selling them to another nonresident in return for foreign currency. In add i t ion, there are Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts in which certain proceeds from investments liquidated by foreigners may be placed. Balances on these accounts may be used for remittances abroad or for mak ing other investments under certain conditions. However, these accounts are of limited importance, because proceeds from foreigners' liquidated investments may be remitted through Nonresident Free Yen Accounts w i thout having been placed in Foreign Investors' Deposit Accounts. imports and import Payments With the exception of books and periodicals, imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Other imports are subject to individual licensing by the authorized banks, but most private imports are liberalized f rom all sources. There are d i f fe rent licensing procedures for imports requ ir ing pay- ment in foreign currencies: (1) Under the Import Quota System (covering imports of goods on the "negative list," which comprises 118 i tems ), the importer must first obtain from MITI an import quota, which is based on the quan t i ta- tive principle. If the quota is granted, the importer receives an import quota certificate which entitles him to receive an import license from an authorized bank automatically upon application. Practically all import quota certifi- cates are issued on a global basis, without regard to the country of origin or the currency of settle- ment. (2) Under the Au toma t ic Import Quota System, import quotas for specified categories of imports are granted automatically on a global basis and w i thout any restriction. ( 3) Under the Au toma t ic Approval System, imports are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction since licenses to import the commodities specified under this system are issued freely and without limitation by the authorized banks, on application. All items sub- ject to the Automatic Approval System may be imported from any country except Rhodesia. Payment for imported goods must be made under one of the standard methods of settlement for imports (generally within a period from the date of receipt of the shipping documents or the 278 goods to four months a f ter customs clearance). When the settlement proposal is not in accord- ance with one of the standard methods, prior approval of MITI must be obtained. In general, importers must make a deposit with an authorized bank when applying for an import license; cu r ren t ly the amount of this deposit is 1 per c e n t2 of the va lue of the intended import for all goods ( for imports from the Ryukyu Islands and for transactions on which the deposit would amount to less than Y 5,000 no deposit is r equ i r ed ). The deposit is returned after 80 per cent of the goods has been imported or if the import transaction is canceled for a reason acceptable to the control authorities. The percent- age of deposit can be increased or decreased. The deposit may be made in cash, securities, or other collateral. Payments for invisibles All paymen ts to Rhodesia are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance or the Minis- ter of In te rna t ional Trade and Industry. Pay- ments to other countries for invisibles also requ ire approval, but current payments are not restricted and most such payments are approved free ly by authorized banks w i thout any limitation or w i th in certain established limits. Payments for certain invisibles, including payments that exceed the established limits, are referred to the Bank of Japan for the purpose of capital control; they are automatically approved without undue delay, upon verification of the authenticity of the cur- rent transac t ion. For tourism and other travel for personal reasons, an allowance equivalent to US$700 a person a trip is automatically made available (US$2,000 for business t r a v e l ) ;3 for add i t ional amoun ts, special authorization is required and is given whenever the application is a bona fide one. A traveler is permitted to pay in yen, before departure, the cost of transportation to and f rom his destination. Certain contracts require approval; but when a license for a con- tract has been granted, any payment resulting from the contract may be made freely. Settle- 2 With effect from May 18, 1970, the rate of deposit was reduced to zero per cent. 3 On March 1, 1970, the au toma t ic allowance for tour- ism and other travel for personal reasons was increased to US$1,000 a person a trip. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ments wh ich are not made under a "standard" method require, in principle, ind iv idual approval; under this method, payments for services, etc., may not be made more than three mon ths before, or la ter than six mon ths af ter, receipt of the serv- ices, etc. Both residents and nonresidents may take out freely V 20,000 in Japanese currency. A nonresi- dent may take out freely foreign currencies up to the amount wh ich he brought into Japan. Exports and Export Proceeds W i th m inor exceptions exports to Rhodesia are p roh ib i ted. A ll exports (except exports w i t h o ut exchange) mu st be registered w i th an authorized bank ("bank c e r t i f i c a t ion " ), in order t h at the re- quirements concern ing prescr ip t ion of cu r rency and surrender of proceeds may be enforced. Licenses are not genera l ly requ i red, except for goods subject to the fo l low ing res tr ic t ions: re- strictions on cer ta in goods to control the ir expo rt to commun ist coun t r ies; res tr ic t ions on goods in short supply in the domestic m a rk et (e.g., m in- erals, fer t i l izers, and staple f o o d s ); and restric- tions designed to forestall the impos i t ion of impo rt restrictions by other coun tr ies (e.g., on such com- modities as po t tery and porcelain, sewing ma- chines, and cer ta in t e x t i l e s ). Exports und er proc- essing and cons ignment sale con trac ts and expor ts for which se t t lement is not und er the s tanda rd method also requ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses. Under the s tanda rd method of settlement for exports, the value of the exported goods mu s t, in general, be settled by d raw ing a bill of exchange payable w i th in five mon ths af ter sight or w i th in six mon ths a f t er sh ipment in a designated receiv- able cu r rency. Export proceeds mu st be surrendered w i t h in 10 days from the date of acqu is i t ion. However, t rad ing concerns resident in Japan may be per- mitted to hold fo re ign currency deposit accounts w i th au tho r ized banks, in wh ich they may keep the ir proceeds in U.S. dollars and /or sterling f rom exports and inv is ib les for a m ax imum of 20 days; d u r i ng th is period, they may use the exchange to make approved paymen ts for the ir imports or for cu r r ent invisibles, or sell it to the authorized banks for yen. JAPAN Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts under the s tandard method of settle- ment may be accepted w i thout a license. Under th is me thod, receipts for the value of services, etc., mu st be obtained w i th in one year before, or w i th in six mon ths af ter, rendering the service, etc. But contracts for services performed for nonresi- den ts when payment is to be received by a non- s tanda rd method are subject to ind iv idual licens- ing. Receipts f rom invisibles must, as a rule, be su r rende red. However, in order to fac i l i ta te pay- men ts for cu r rent invisibles, specified residents ( sh ipp ing companies, etc.) are authorized to keep fore ign currency deposit accounts with banks in the designated receivable foreign currencies. Both residents and nonresidents may bring in f r e e ly any amount in foreign or Japanese cur- rency. Capital Foreign investments in Japan are generally subject to approva l, m a in ly in accordance with the Foreign Inve s tment Law (Law No. 163 of May 10, 1950) or the Foreign Exchange Control Law (Law No. 228 of December 1, 1949). All acqu is i t ions of stocks, bonds, debentures, benefi- c ia ry ce r t i f ica tes, and claims in the form of loans by fo re ign investors are in principle subject to v a l id a t ion or license. However, acquisitions of stocks in the securities market are automatically approved by the Bank of Japan as follows: up to 20 per cent total foreign participation in the stock of a corporation not classified as a restricted i n d u s t r y, up to 15 per cent total foreign p a r t i c ip a t ion in the stock of a corporation classi- fied as a restricted indu s t ry ,4 and up to 7 per cent of the total capital of any corporation if acqu i red by a single holder. Acquisition of stock for pa r t ic ipa t ion in management is subject, except in the case of newly established companies in the liberalized industries, to individual screening, but it is approved in principle if there is no adverse effect on the Japanese economy. All these acqui- sitions must be made against yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange or its equivalent if the investor wishes to obtain remittance rights 4 Restricted indus t r ies inc lude wa terworks, railways and other t ran spo r ta t ion, e lec tr ic and gas u t i l i t ies, banks, m i n i n g, f ishery, and broadcasting. 279 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN upon validation. Stocks in the form of stock divi- dends on earned surplus or revaluation of assets may be acquired freely, but application for remittance rights must be made within three months from the date of acquisition. The follow- ing are deemed to be the same as yen proceeds from the sale of foreign exchange, if they are rein- vested in Japan and if approval had been obtained for their acquisition: proceeds from the redemption af ter ma tur i ty of debentures, benefici- ary certificates, or claims in the form of loans; dividends on stocks; interest on debentures or on claims in the form of loans; distributed profits of beneficiary certificates; receipts from technologi- cal assistance contracts; and proceeds from sales of stocks, debentures, and beneficiary certificates. In the event of expropriation or compulsory sale of a foreign investment, the amount paid on account of expropriation may be repatriated freely. Remittance of the proceeds f rom the sale of validated stock, as well as transfer abroad of earnings on foreign investments acquired with foreign currency, is permitted. Proceeds from the sale of validated debentures and beneficiary cer- tificates may be deposited in Nonresident Free Yen Accounts, if the securities have been held for six months from the date of acquisition. Proceeds from the sale of stocks, bonds, debentures, beneficiary certificates, etc., acquired with yen withdrawn from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts may be deposited in Nonresi- dent Free Yen Accounts, provided that the secu- rities have been held for at least three years from the date of acquisition. Repayments of loans extended to residents from Nonresident Yen Deposit Accounts become remittable, subject to licensing by the Bank of Japan, beginning three years from the date of the loan. When foreign companies desire to establish a branch or a plant in Japan, they are required to inform the Ministry of Finance and MITI through the Bank of Japan. When branches or plants established by foreign companies wish to bring in funds from their main offices abroad, they are required to obtain licenses. The branches established in accordance with approved proce- dures are permitted to remit their profits and principal abroad. 280 Foreign investment in Japan generally requires approval by the Minister of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases the approval of the Minister of Finance only) after delibera- tion by the Foreign Investment Council. How- ever, foreign investment aimed at setting up new joint ventures in those industries listed in Catego- ries A and B of the Liberalization List are auto- matically approved by the Minister of Finance and the competent minister (in some cases only the Minister of Finance). For foreign investment in the industries listed in Category A (160 indus- tries) the automatic approval will be given only if the foreign capital ratio does not exceed 50 per cent, while investments in Category B (44 indus- tries) will be automatically approved without restriction on the extent of foreign participation. Even where investments for establishing new enterprises in the 204 liberalized industries are concerned, however, individual screening is required in the following instances: (1) when the setting up of new companies is only nominal and when these companies may be actually scheduled for eventual merger with companies already in existence; ( 2) when foreign capital may have the controlling power over management in the indus- tries listed in Category A; or (3) when foreign participation is considered exceptionally detri- mental to Japan's interests. Purchases by nonresidents of real estate in Japan for residential or other nonprofit purposes and of offices require approval by the Bank of Japan; purchases of real estate for other purposes require approval by the Ministry of Finance. The transfer abroad of capital by residents and the mak ing of investments abroad are subject to approval. Automatic approval is given by the Bank of Japan for the making of certain direct investments not exceeding US$200,000. Japanese emigrants may remit up to US$5,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies from their assets to their new country of domicile subject only to verification by an authorized bank; addi- tional amounts may be remitted subject to licens- ing by the Bank of Japan. Emigrants of foreign nationality leaving Japan may remit to their new country of domicile up to US$50,000 or its equivalent in other foreign currencies; additional amounts may be granted according to the merits ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of each case. The remaining liquid assets in Japan of such foreigners may be credited to Non- resident Yen Deposit Accounts. Securities acquired with approval under the Foreign Inves tment Law may be imported and exported freely. Gold Domestic producers sell their production, sub- ject to government guidance, to gold ingot dealers at Y 660 a gram for domestic indu s t r i al and dental use. From t ime to time the M in is try of Finance through its Special Account for Precious Metals purchases gold in overseas markets for resale at Y 660 a gram to m in ing companies, which must resell in tu rn, at the same price, to processors. Exports and other imports of gold are not permitted. Residents other than gold pro- ducers and indus t r ial users are f ree to purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Japan. Changes during 1969 March 7. The Government liberalized inward direct inves tment in 154 additional industries (136 in Category A and 18 in Category B ). These were additional to the 50 industries in which foreign investment had been liberalized since Ju ly 1967. April 7. The foreign exchange allowance for tour ist and other personal travel that could be au toma t ica l ly approved by authorized banks was raised f rom US$500 to US$700 a person a trip. The US$35 l im it on the automatic per diem allowance for business tr ips was l i f ted, but the over-all au toma t ic allocation remained at US$2,000 a tr ip. The Bank of Japan approved additional amounts for personal and business travel whenever the application was a bona fide one. April 1. Six items, inc lud ing bourbon wh isky and certain outboard motors, were shifted from the Import Quota list to the Au toma t ic Import Quota list or Au toma t ic Approval list. September 7. Balances outstanding on Nonresi- dent Yen Deposit Accounts on Ju ly 31, 1969 could either be remitted abroad in fu ll or trans- ferred to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. Remittances of balances arising a f ter that date would be permitted each year up to 30 per cent JAPAN (prev ious ly 20 per cent) of the balance at the end of the previous year or the equivalent of US$2,000, whichever is higher. September 7. The restrictions on remittances of profits from "yen-based branches," i.e., branches of foreign businesses in Japan which had been established before Ju ly 1, 1963 on the condition th at profits and principal would not be remitted, were removed. Remittances of dividends on non- resident-owned "yen-based stocks," which had been obtained before July 1, 1963 in a similar manne r, were also fu l ly liberalized. The liquida- tion proceeds of "yen-based branches" and the sales proceeds of "yen-based stocks" or of non- resident-owned "yen-based real estate," all of wh ich p rev iou s ly had to be credited to Nonresi- dent Yen Deposit Accounts, henceforth were t rans fe rab le or alternatively could be credited to Nonresident Free Yen Accounts. The restrictions a f fec t ing certain income from "yen-based" assets related only to balances that had accumulated before Japan's acceptance of the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. September 7. The restrictions on remittances of salaries and other cu r rent income accruing to for- eign na t iona ls residing in Japan were removed and the l im it on the value of assets that could w i th au toma t ic approval be transferred abroad by such persons when changing their coun try of resi- dence was raised from the equivalent of US$10,000 to that of US$50,000. September 7. The amount up to which Japa- nese firms could, without exchange control approva l, issue guarantees in connection with loans extended to the ir overseas branches by non- residents, was increased from Y 100 million to Y 360 m i l l ion. September 16. The Government notified the Un i ted States that it did not propose to make use of its exemp t ion f rom the Interest Equalization Tax on securities issued in the United States. September 22. To encourage the authorized banks to improve their external positions, it was announced that the Foreign Exchange Fund Spe- cial Account would supply foreign currency to be used for the repayment of external debts, etc., in exchange for yen f u n ds which would be provided by the Bank of Japan th rough purchases of securities. 281 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JAPAN October 1. An au toma t ic approval system was introduced for outward direct investments not exceeding US$200,000. Approval would be given by the Bank of Japan af ter a simple verification procedure. October 1. Three items, including printing machines and indu s t r ial sewing machines, were shifted f rom the Import Quota list to the Auto- matic Import Quota list. Two other items, b randy and l iqueu rs, were shifted from the Import Quota list to the Au toma t ic Approval list. One hund red and th i r ty three items were transferred f rom the Au toma t ic Import Quota list to the Au toma t ic Approval list. October 17. The Cabinet decided that imports of 53 of the 118 commodities still under the Import Quota System wou ld be liberalized by the end of 1971. October 20. The deposit requirement for imports of consumer goods was lowered from 5 per cent to 1 per cent. Thus, the percentage of deposit required became 1 per cent for all com- modities. It also became possible for all commod- ities to put up securities or other collateral in lieu of cash. The 0.1 per cent deposit requirement on imports f rom Okinawa and the other Ryukyu Islands was abolished. October 22. Japan signed with each of the member countries of the EEC a one-year agree- men t, retroactive to October 1, concerning trade in cotton textiles. Japan would restrain exports to the countries concerned of certain items whose impo r ta t ion they previously restricted by import quotas. November 11. It was announced that from October 1971 foreign firms would be permitted to acquire up to 50 per cent of the capital in companies established jointly with Japanese firms for the assembling and marke t ing of cars and the m a n u f a c t u r i ng of spare parts for cars. 282 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Jordan D inar or JD 1 = US$2.80. The off ic ial l im i ts for the U.S. dollar are US$2.82 buy ing, and US$2.78 selling, per JD 1. The rate of the Cen tral Bank of Jordan for the pound ster- l ing is JD 1 = <£ 1 3s. 4d., buy ing and se l l ing. Au thor ized banks deal in U.S. dollars and other fore ign currenc ies at rates usua l ly based on the rates in the New York marke t. A fee of 4 per cent is levied on the issue of import licenses. A fee of V10 of 1 per cent is levied on exchange per- m i ts approved by the Central Bank for sales of exchange for impor ts, except imports of govern- ment depa r tmen ts and certain other approved in s t i tu t ion s. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is te red by the For- eign Exchange Depa r tment of the Cen tral Bank of Jo rdan, wh ich also issues exchange licenses; the Central Bank has, however, delegated to au- thorized banks the issuance of exchange licenses up to a pe rm i t ted a n n u al l im it for paymen ts for educa t ional expenses of Jo rdan ians s tudy ing abroad. Impo rt policy is fo rmu la ted by an Impo rt Committee, wh ich includes the Director of Supp ly, Impo r ts, and Exports and the Depu ty Governor of the Central Bank of Jordan. The Import Comm i t tee presents its recommendations to the M in is ter of Na t ional Economy, who has the sole au tho r i ty to decide on each proposal. Prescription of Currency Jordan is a member of the Sterling Area, and most of its trade is financed in sterling. Paymen ts to residents of the Sterling Area may be made in any S ter l ing Area currency. In practice, such pay- ments are made in sterling to a Resident Account in the Un i ted K ingdom, or in Jordan d ina rs to a nonres ident Sterling Area Account with an authorized bank in Jordan. Payments to residents of coun tr ies outside the Sterling Area must be made in s ter l ing to an Ex te rnal Account in the United K ingdom, or in Jordan d inars to a non- resident Ex ternal Account w i th an authorized bank in Jordan, or in any convertible currency; paymen ts for goods of U.S. origin, however, must be made only in U.S. dollars. Proceeds f rom exports and inv is ib les must be collected, and surrendered where requ ired, as fol- lows: f r om res iden ts of the Sterling Area, in resi- dent s te r l ing or in Jordan d inars f rom a nonresi- dent S te r l ing Area Account w i th an authorized bank in Jo rd an; f rom residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area, in sterling from an Exter- nal Account in the United Kingdom, in Jordan d ina rs f r om a nonres ident External Account with an au tho r ized b a nk in Jo rdan, or in any converti- b le cu r r en cy. Nonresident Accounts Sub ject to the prior approval of the Central Bank of Jo rdan, au thor ized banks may open non- res ident accounts designated either Sterling Area Accoun ts or Ex ternal Accounts, according to the p e rm a n e nt residence of the account holder. These accoun ts mu st be fed with appropriate funds. The app roval of the Cen tral Bank of Jordan is neces- sary for redes igna t ion of residence, for transfers f rom res ident to nonresident accounts, and for t r an s f e rs f rom Sterling Area Accounts to External Accoun ts. Transfers between similarly designated non res ident accounts, transfers f rom External Accoun ts to Sterling Area Accounts, and trans- fe rs f r om non res ident to resident accounts are pe rm i t ted f ree ly. Imports and Import Payments Impo r ts of ce r ta in items * from any source and all impo r ts f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. All o ther imports, unless covered by an agreement between Jordan and the exporting coun t ry (i .e ., agr icu l tural products from neigh- bor ing coun t r ies and imports covered by the A r ab Common Market Agreemen t), require impo rt licenses if the ir c. & f. va lue is JD 50 or more. These are granted freely by the Ministry of 1 These in c lude carbonic acid; arak; alcohol; nonalco- holic beverages; cigarettes; diesel-engined cars, lorries, and buses; macaron i, spaghetti, and s im i lar products; m i l i t a ry u n i f o rm s; and l iqu id batteries. Impor ts of bar- ley, len t i ls, olives, olive oil, and some other ag r icu l tu ral commod i t ies are p roh ib i ted in good crop years. 283 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution JORDAN National Economy, except for certain i t em s2 which are subject to scrutiny by the Minister of National Economy (whose prior approval is also required for imports of industrial machinery and of all ma ter ia ls needed for the establishment or expansion of an industrial firm) or scrutiny by the competent ministry. Importers of tea, ju te fabr ics and ju te bags, certain iron and steel prod- ucts, certain woven cotton fabrics and cotton y a rn must obtain specified minimum proportions of their annual requirements of these commodi- ties from Ind ia; some of these may be imported only f rom India. Imports requ ire an exchange license from the Central Bank. Exchange licenses are granted au toma t ica l ly when an import license has been obtained. Import licenses are valid for 12 months. The importer must complete the process of importa- tion w i th in the period of validity of the license. He may either open a letter of credit or pay against documents. In either case an exchange license from the Central Bank is required. Imports should, in principle, enter the country through the port of Aqaba; goods that do not meet this requ irement are subject to a penalty of 5 per cent of the c.i.f. value; the penalty is 1 per cent, however, for raw materials deemed essential by the M in is t ry of National Economy for certain mach inery and equipment, and government imports are exempt. Bank guarantees in favor of the Ministry of Finance are required on most imports shipped through ports other than Aqaba. Imports that require an import license also require an exchange license, which is granted automatically. A fee of y10 of 1 per cent is levied on exchange licenses for imports, except those made by government departments and certain approved institutions. Most imported commodi- ties are subject to an import tax of 4 per cent of the c. & f. va lue. 2 These items on the "restricted list" include ghee, margar ine, and other vegetable fa ts; tomato ju ice; saccharin; Du lc in; pectin; petroleum products (except aviation f u e l ); detergents; superphosphates; cement; tanned lea the r; amusement machines; blankets; woolen rugs; paper n a p k i ns and s im i lar products; dry batteries; shav ing lo t ion; and toothpaste. 284 Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles are subject to exchange control approval. Payments for the fol- lowing types of invisibles are generally permitted up to certain limits; income of nonresidents; sav- ings of foreign nationals who intend to return to the ir own countries; remittances to refugee dependents; reasonable living expenses of Jorda- n ian nationals abroad; expenses of Jordanian res- idents traveling abroad; expenses for education; expenses of medical treatment; business expenses abroad; and insurance payments in accordance w i th special regulations. Remittances for family ma in tenance may be made by postal order at a rate not exceeding JD 10 a month to any one person resident abroad. The policy in respect of paymen ts for invisibles is, in general, liberal and nond iscr im ina tory. Residents traveling to any of the other Arab countries may take out up to JD 100 in Jorda- n ian notes and coins or its equivalent in foreign currency. All travelers to other destinations may take out up to JD 25 in domestic notes and coins or the equivalent in foreign currency. Tourists and other nonresidents may also take out foreign currency notes and coins and any other foreign means of payment that they had previously brought in and declared upon entry. All travelers may take out checks, travelers checks, or letters of credit issued by authorized banks in Jordan in accordance w i th exchange permits authorized by the Central Bank. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds exceeding JD 50 must be col- lected and the foreign exchange, including ster- ling, surrendered. Proceeds from exports to Arab League countries of agricultural products and locally manu fac tu red goods are exempt from the surrender requirement, except for the products of tobacco and cigarette factories, the phosphate company, the dyeing and tanning company, the cement plant, and the petroleum refinery; also exempt are proceeds from exports to Iran of agri- cu l tural products. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Proceeds from invisibles Foreign exchange (including sterling) receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an author- ized bank or, if banknotes are received, to an authorized exchange dealer. Travelers entering Jordan may br ing in a max imum of JD 100 in Jordan ian currency notes and any amount in for- eign currencies. Any person regarded for exchange control purposes as resident in Jordan may be requ ired by the Central Bank to surren- der to an authorized bank any foreign currency ( inc lud ing sterling) at his disposal. Capital Capital may be imported freely, but exports of capital requ i re approval and normally are not allowed. Current income resulting from nonresi- dent investments in Jordan may be transferred abroad. Under the Law for the Encouragement of Investment, effective January 16, 1967 (Law No. 1 of 1967), profits from approved foreign invest- ments may be remitted, without limitation, in the currency of the original investment. A f ter two years repa tr ia t ion of the capital is permitted in three equal annual installments in the same for- eign currency in which the original investment was made. The Investment Committee may approve more liberal provisions. All transactions JORDAN the prior under the investment law require approval of the Central Bank. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Jordan for numismatic or investment purposes. W i th this exception, residents other than the mone tary authorities and authorized indu s t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acqu i re gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Licenses for imports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry are issued by the M in i s t ry of National Economy on the recommen- da t ion of the Central Bank, while exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require a license f rom the Central Bank. Licenses are not normally gran ted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1969 March 72. The minimum ratios of certain impor ts that were reserved for Indian suppliers were increased, and such ratios were announced for add i t ional commodities. The highest ratios were those for certain iron rods and wire (100 per c e n t ), j u te fabrics and bags (100 per cent), and tea (80 per cen t). 285 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Kenya Shilling or K Sh 7.14286 = US$1. The Cen tral Bank of Kenya deals w i th the Gov- e r nm e nt and w i th authorized banks in Tanzania shillings and Uganda sh i l l ings against Kenya shil- lings at par; the authorized banks also deal w i th the pub l ic in these currenc ies at par. In transac- tions w i th au thor ized banks, the Central Bank of Kenya stands ready to issue Kenya shillings in exchange for s ter l ing and to supply sterling in exchange for Kenya shillings; its b u y i ng and selling rates for sterling in such t ransac t ions, which d i f f er from the par i ty ra te of £ 1.00 — K Sh 17.14291 by i/32 and i/16 per cen t, are KSh 17.1376 a n d K Sh 17.1536, respectively. The Cen t ral Bank deals with the Gove rnment in pounds s ter l ing at the pa r i ty rate of <£ 1.00 = K Sh 17.1429. The Central Bank does not deal in foreign currencies ' other than s ter l ing and U.S. dollars, except occasionally on behalf of the Gov- e rnmen t. Banks in Kenya base the ir rates for such foreign currenc ies on the cu r rent ma rket rates in London. The Central Bank deals fo rwa rd in sterling and U.S. dollars w i th commercial banks, to cover the ir contracts w i th impor ters and exporters only. The Kenya sh i l l ing circulates concu r ren t ly w i th the East A f r i c an sh i l l ing previously issued by the East A f r i c an Cu r rency Board, wh ich has ceased to be legal tender and is being w i thd r awn from circulation. East A f r i c an sh i l l ings con t inue to be exchanged at the ra te of K Sh 20 for EA Sh 20, but East A f r i c an sh i l l ings imported w i th specific exchange control approval by banks are redeemed at a rate of K Sh 17.1429 for EA Sh 20. Administration of Control The M in is ter for Finance has delegated the adm in i s t r a t ion of exchange control to the Central Bank of K eny a. Au tho r i ty for approv ing normal impo rt paymen ts, many paymen ts in respect of cu r r ent invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Tanzania and Uganda is dele- gated to the au thor ized banks. Impo rt and export controls are administered by the Director of Trade and Supplies in the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry. The respon- s i b i l i ty for issuing import and export licenses rests w i th the Director, to whom applications should be subm i t ted by the importer or exporter in Kenya before orders are placed abroad or expor ts are shipped. The government-owned Kenya Na t ional Trading Corporation, Ltd., has a monopo ly over the impo rt of rice and certain tex- tiles, and the M i n i s t ry of Commerce and Industry is the sole impor ter of sugar for consumption. Ce r ta in ag r icu l tu ral imports and exports are effec ted by State Ma rke t ing Boards. Together w i th Tanzania and Uganda, Kenya is pa rt of the East A f r ican currency area. Payments f rom K enya to Tanzan ia and Uganda are free of restrictions. Prescription of Currency K e n ya is a member of the Sterling Area and m a in t a ins prescr ip t ion of currency requirements s im i lar to those of the United Kingdom; settle- men ts w i th Tanzan ia and Uganda, however, nor- m a l ly are effected in East A f r ican currency.2 Paymen ts to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Tanzania and Uganda may be made in Kenya shillings to the credit of a Non- res ident S ter l ing Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area cu r rency; receipts from such coun tr ies must be obtained in Kenya shil- lings f rom a Nonresident Sterling Area Account in Kenya or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized paymen ts, including payments for impor ts, by residents of Kenya to residents of coun tr ies outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Kenya shil- lings to the credit of an Ex ternal Account in Kenya, or in any other non-Sterling Area cur- rency except Rhodesian pounds that is appropri- 1 Foreign currenc ies are all currencies other th an the Kenya sh i l l ing, the Tanzan ia sh i l l ing, the Uganda shil- l ing, and the East A f r i c an sh i l l ing. 2 East Afr ican currency comprises Kenya shillings, Tanzania shillings, and Uganda shillings. 286 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ate to the coun t ry of residence of the payee. Receipts f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in s ter l ing from an Ex ternal Account in the United King- dom, in Kenya shillings f rom an Ex te rnal Account in Kenya, or in any other specified currency 3 that is not a Sterling Area cu r rency. Special regulations apply to se t t lemen ts w i th Rho- desia; all paymen ts and t rans fe rs to Rhodesia are p roh ib i ted. Rem i t tances to South A f r i ca also are p roh ib i ted, w i th the exception of those of pen- sions payab le by the Government of Kenya or by the East A f r i c an C omm u n i ty organ iza t ions. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held, w i th exchange control approva l, by resi- den ts of o ther Sterling Area coun t r ies except T an z an ia and Uganda. They may be credited f ree ly w i th all au tho r ized paymen ts to such Ster- l ing Area coun t r ies by Kenyan res iden ts, w i th t r a n s f e rs f r om other Non res ident Sterling Area Accoun ts, w i th t r an s f e rs f rom Ex te rnal Accounts, and w i th the proceeds f rom sales to an au thor- ized dea ler in K e n ya of any non -S te r l ing Area cu r r en cy (o ther th an Rhodes ian pound s) or gold by residents of any country outside the Sterling A rea. They may be debited f ree ly for paymen ts for expo r ts to o ther coun t r ies in the S ter l ing Area except Tanzan ia and Uganda and o ther paymen ts due by res iden ts of o ther coun t r ies in the Sterling Area except Tanzan ia and Uganda to K e n y an resi- dents, for p aym en ts to res iden ts of other coun- t r ies in the S te r l ing A rea except T an z an ia and Uganda for any purpose, for t r an s f e rs to other Non re s ident S ter l ing Area Accoun ts in K eny a, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for w i t h d r aw a ls by the account holder wh i le he is t em p o r a r i ly res ident in K eny a; provided that per- m iss ion of the app rop r ia te exchange control a u t h o r i t i es in a S ter l ing Area coun t ry o ther than T an z an ia or Uganda has been ob ta ined, Nonresi- 3 The spec if ied cu r renc ies are A u s t r i an s ch i l l ing s, Belgian f ranc s, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese k ron e r, d eu t s che m a r k, French f ranc s, I t a l i an l i r e, Japa- nese yen, N e th e r l ands gu i lde r s, No rweg ian k ron e r, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss f r an c s, U.S. dollars, and all S t e r l ing Area cu r- rencies o ther t h an the Kenya s h i l l i n g, the Tanzan ia s h i l l i n g, the Uganda sh i l l ing, and the East A f r i c an s h i l l i n g. KENYA dent S te r l ing Area Accounts may exceptionally be deb i ted for t ran s fe rs to External Accounts in K e n ya or elsewhere in the Sterling Area and for pu rchases in Kenya of any non-Sterling Area cur- rency or gold f r om au thor ized dealers. Accoun ts in K enya sh i l l ings held by residents of coun t r ies outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodes ia w i th au tho r ized banks in Kenya are, w i th exchange control approva l, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely w i th au tho r i z ed paymen ts to such countries by res iden ts of K eny a, with transfers from other Ex t e rn al Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other t h an Rhodes ian pounds) and gold by nonresi- den ts of the S ter l ing Area to authorized dealers; p rov ided t h at pe rm iss ion of the appropriate exchange con t rol au tho r i t i es in a Sterling Area coun t ry other th an Tanzan ia or Uganda has been ob ta ined, Ex te rnal Accoun ts may also be credited w i th t r a n s f e rs f rom Non re s ident Sterling Area Accounts. Ex te rnal Accounts may be debited f r e e ly for paymen ts to residents of the Sterling A rea, for t r a n s f e rs to other Ex te rnal Accounts in K enya or in any o ther Sterling Area coun try, and for pu rcha ses of non-S ter l ing Area currencies f r om au tho r i z ed dealers. N o n t r a n s f e r a b le f u n ds of residents of countries o ther t h an T an z an ia and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prescribed proce- du re s, ba lances on Blocked Accoun ts may be used for the pu rchase in K enya of specified bonds issued by the K eny an Government or by local a u t h o r i t i es and o f f ic ia l ly quoted in K e n y a ;4 the redemp t ion proceeds of these securities, which m u st h ave a l i fe of five years at the t ime of a c q u i s i t i o n, are t ran s fe rab le, and interest is freely t r a n s f e r a b le to nonres iden ts as and when it accrues. Transfers between Blocked Accoun ts in K e n y a, and to Blocked Accoun ts in Tanzania and Ug and a, r equ i re pr ior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some impo r ts f rom all sources are prohibited for reasons of pub l ic policy; for protective rea- 4 Such secu r i t ies mu st be payable in East A f r ican c u r r e n cy and they m u st not be redeemable ear l ier than five years f rom the da te of acquisition. 287 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA sons, certain other imports are not being licensed. All imports from metropolitan Portugal, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited. With certain exceptions, imports from Tanzania and Uganda are unrestricted, but many goods imported from these countries require a specific license unless they are of Tanzanian or Ugandan origin. Specific import licenses are required for a number of goods from all sources.5 Other goods may be imported w i thout licenses. When the importer has obtained a license from the Director of Trade and Supplies, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an author- ized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documen tary evidence. Payments for invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are controlled. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established l im i ts; amounts above these limits may be approved administratively, and most cur- rent payments are in fact unrestricted. The basic allowance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories 6 by adults holding round-trip tickets is K Sh 4,000 a person (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) every two years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes.7 Holders of one-way tickets are entitled to a basic travel allowance of K Sh 2,000 for adults and K Sh 1,000 for children. The basic allowance is not available for travel to Rhodesia or South Africa. Travelers to destinations outside Tanzania and Uganda may take out up to K Sh 250 in domes- tic currency notes; travelers proceeding direct to Tanzania or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, or East African shil- ling notes. Nonresident travelers may take out for- eign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. 5 Imports of Japanese origin were brought under open general license on November 12, 1968. 6 Kenya's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 7 Banks are not permitted, w i thout specific approval, to sell exchange in excess of K Sh 200 a day (subject to a max imum of K Sh 3,000 for a stay of not less than 15 days) for travel to Bu rund i, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, Southern Yemen, Sudan, and Zambia. 288 Fees for education up to the equivalent of K Sh 14,000 a person for a fu ll scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. Facilities exist whereby nationals of countries other than Tanzania and Uganda who come to work in Kenya as employed persons (not self-employed) for not more than four years may remit abroad as sav- ings up to 3 3 Va per cent of their monthly salaries but not more than K Sh 3,000 a month; in addi- tion they may remit funds to cover family main- tenance, education expenses, etc., provided that the ir total remittances including savings do not exceed 50 per cent of their monthly salaries. Expa tr ia tes who have stayed for over four years in the Scheduled Territories may continue to effect remittances from salaries as above but those who avail themselves of the facilities for rem i t tance of savings from salaries are not enti- tled to exchange facilities upon emigration. Rem i t tances to South Africa, other than those of certain pensions, are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Kenya. Exports of certain minerals, precious stones, and strategic materials are also subject to licensing. Export licenses for some commodities are required only for destina- tions other than Tanzania or Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. All exports to metropolitan Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected w i th in six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Kenya for con- version into Kenya shillings.8 Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be sold to an authorized bank.8 Travelers may bring in freely foreign cur- rency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, or 8 There are minor exemptions with respect to Ethio- pian dollars and Somali shillings for persons resident in specified border areas. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Uganda sh i l l ing notes must not exceed K Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless a r r iv ing direct from Tanzan ia or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. The import by travel- ers of East A f r ican shilling notes f rom countries other than Tanzan ia or Uganda is prohibited. Capital Capital t rans fe rs to all countries other than Tanzania and Uganda are restricted. Specified cap i tal transfers in respect of legacies and inhe r i tances to all countries other than Tan- zan ia and Uganda are approved by au thor ized banks; all other cap i tal t rans fe rs to destinations other than Tanzan ia and Uganda requ ire ind iv id- ual exchange control approval. Transfers to Rho- desia or South A f r ica are not allowed. With the exception of expatriate employees who have opted for rem i t tance of savings from salaries, per- sons leav ing Kenya permanently may transfer the ir assets up to the equivalent of K Sh 50,000 for each f am i ly u n it if they take up residence in a coun t ry outside the Scheduled Territories; they may add i t iona l ly every 12 mon ths thereafter, du r ing a period of five years, apply for the release of K Sh 20,000 from their Blocked Accounts. All rema in ing funds must be credited to a Blocked Account; they may then be invested in approved Scheduled Territory securities, and redemption proceeds become transferable, pro- vided that redemption does not take place earlier than five years from the date of purchase. There is no restriction on the investment of foreign funds in Kenya, but to ensure even tual repa tr ia t ion it is necessary to obtain from the Treasury a "certificate of approved enterprise" for the inves tmen t. Foreign and domestic invest- ment in specified types of production requires approval under the East African Licensing Ordi- nance. Local borrowing by nonresident-owned or nonresident-controlled companies requires exchange control approval and is subject to a ceiling. Except in respect of Tanzania and Uganda, all imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase by nonresidents of Kenyan securities on a recognized stock exchange, provided that pay- KENYA ment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, but the proceeds on resale must normally be credited to Blocked Accounts. Purchases of securities outside Tanzania and Uganda by residents are not nor- ma l ly perm i t ted. A resident of Kenya may not send as a cash g i ft to a country other than Tan- zan ia or Uganda more than K Sh 200 a year w i thout specific exchange control approval. Cold Res iden ts may hold and acquire gold coins in K enya for num i sma t ic purposes. With th is excep- t ion, residents other than the monetary authorities and au tho r ized industrial and professional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm o ther than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry con s t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler requ i re exchange control approval. The import of the fo l low ing f rom all sources other than Tanza- nia and Uganda, and from Tanzania and Uganda when o r ig ina t ing in other countries is subject to ind iv idu al licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or p l a t i n um; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, inc lud ing set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold jewe l ry are issued free ly; those for gold bullion (ingots, bars, or sheets) are issued to goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively, while imports of gold coins are not being licensed. Changes during 1969 Du r ing the year, a number of commodities were added to the list of those subject to licen- sing when o r ig ina t ing from countries other than Tanzan ia and Uganda. January 23. Revisions of Exchange Control C i rcu la rs Nos. 4, 5, 15, and 28 went into effect. The m a in changes were as follows: ( 1 ) The basic travel allowance for travel out- side the Scheduled Territories was reduced from K Sh 5,000 for each adult person a year (K Sh 2,500 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) to K Sh 4,000 (K Sh 2,000 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) once every two years. However, noncitizens (including their fam- ilies) employed on a contract basis and entitled 289 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KENYA by v i r t ue of the ir contracts to home leave more f r equ en t ly than once every two years could be granted the basic travel allowance each t ime they proceeded on leave in accordance w i th the terms of the ir contracts, provided that they did not have their leave salaries t rans fe r red ou ts ide East A f r i c a. The special travel allowance h i the r to available to students and children in receipt of an educa t ion allowance was canceled. (2) The exchange fac i l i t ies ava i lab le to n a t ion a ls of Sterling Area countries other than the Scheduled Territories in respect of t r an s f er of th e ir leave sa la ry to the coun t ry where their leave was to be spent were ex tended to non-Sterling Area na t iona l s; they rema ined l im i t ed to K Sh 4,000 a mon th for a m a x im um period of six mon ths and con t inued to en ta il loss of entitle- ment to the basic travel allowance. The allowance of up to K Sh 5,000 for use ou ts ide the Sterling Area ava i lab le to na t iona ls of Sterling Area coun- tries (o ther than the Scheduled Territories) whose leave pay was t rans fe r red to a Sterling Area coun try was reduced f rom K Sh 5,000 to K Sh 4,000 w i th in the ir total en t i t lemen t. ( 3) Nationals of countries other t h an K eny a, Tanzan ia, or Uganda who were employed in Kenya for not more than four years by a com- pany, firm, or in s t i tu t ion registered in Kenya were perm i t ted to rem it up to 33l/3 per cent and not, as prev ious ly, 50 per cent of the ir mon th ly salary, provided that the app l icant is the head of the household; the mon th ly l im it for this k ind of rem i t tance rema ined K Sh 3,000. If the applicant also effected t rans fe rs in respect of f am i ly ma in te- nance or educa t ion, the total t ran s fe rs outside the Scheduled Territories on account of savings, ma in tenance, and educa t ion were, as previously, limited to 50 per cent of the mon th ly sa lary. (4) The right to make rem i t tances f rom sala- ries to wh ich Sterling Area na t iona ls other than Scheduled Territory na t iona ls were entitled when resident in Kenya for a period of over four years was ex tended to non-Sterling Area nationals. While previously they could be perm i t ted to trans- fer up to 20 per cent of their salaries d rawn in Kenya, but not more than K Sh 1,200 a month, or up to 50 per cent of their salaries on account of uncomm i t ted and committed remittances com- bined, they were henceforth given a choice of 290 m a k i ng such t rans fe rs on the terms set out under ( 3 ), above, or under the revised regulations con- cern ing emigration trea tment set out under (5 ), below. ( 5) A person w ish ing to emigrate to a country ou ts ide the Scheduled Territories would normally be allowed to t r an s f er up to K Sh 50,000 for each f am i ly un it ( ins tead of K Sh 100,000 as p rev ious ly) f rom his declared assets as a settling-in allowance to his new country of resi- dence. In add i t ion, the new regulation extended to non-S ter l ing Area nationals the right pre- v ious ly reserved to Sterling Area nationals return- ing to the coun t ry of their origin, to transfer f u n ds out of the ir assets every year after their d ep a r tu r e. At the same t ime the m ax imum yearly amount to be t rans fe r red on the ann iversary of the date of em igra t ion was reduced from K Sh 40,000 to K Sh 20,000 ( l im i ted to five annual i n s t a l lm e n t s ), the rem i t tance of these anniversary releases be ing subject to prior exchange control app rova l; any balance in excess of these amounts was to be blocked. Nationals of countries outside the Scheduled Territories could not avail them- selves of these em ig ra t ion facilities if they had p rev ious ly opted for rem i t tance of savings as ind ica ted u n d er ( 4 ), above. April 10. Coins issued by the East African Cu r rency Board ceased to be legal tender. April 24. Au thor ized banks were permitted to repu rchase Kenya shilling notes offered by Somali banks, provided that they originated from cattle expor ts to Kenya. June 1. All impor ts of wine and spirits became the monopoly of the Kenya Wine Agencies, Ltd. June 3. A new Bank ing Act came into opera- t ion, rep lac ing that of 1956. Among the new pro- v is ions were m i n im um capital requirements for b a n ks incorpora ted locally and for those incorpo- rated outside Kenya. The latter were obliged to b r ing in f u n ds from outside the country commen- su ra te w i th their liabilities in Kenya. September 16. Transfers in respect of insur- ance, inc lud ing t rans fe rs of prem iums collected by insurance companies, required prior approval by the Treasury. The only exemption from this requ i rement was for transfers of insurance prem- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution iums in respect of sterling life policies written before June 10, 1965 or written, w i th specific exchange control approval, at a later date. September 24. A second Association Agree- ment was signed by the European Economic Community and the countries of the East Afr ican Commun i ty. The first agreement, which was signed on Ju ly 26, 1968 for the period to May 31, 1969, had never entered in to force. The new agreement would take effect upon ratification. KENYA 291 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA Exchange Rate System No par value for the Korean Won has been established with the Fund. Since March 22, 1965 there has been a fluctuating exchange rate deter- mined in an exchange certificate marke t, where the rate is not permitted to appreciate beyond W 255 per US$1. On December 31, 1969 the buying and selling rates of the Bank of Korea for the U.S. dollar were W 304.00 and W 304.90, respectively, and the telegraphic transfer buying and selling rates of the foreign exchange banks were W 303.70 and W 305.20, respectively. Exchange certificates valid for 45 days are issued by the Korea Exchange Bank and other exchange banks against all foreign exchange earn- ings in prescribed currencies surrendered by resi- dents. All foreign exchange proceeds, however, may alternatively be exchanged for won at the buying rate posted by the foreign exchange banks. Exchange certificates are in principle required for all foreign exchange expenditures except for payments for imports financed under U.S. aid programs, and payments by commercial banks in connection with their bank ing transac- tions, etc. Administration of Control The Ministry of Finance is in charge of exchange control, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. It carries out policy with respect to pre- scription of currency and method of settlement, foreign exchange operations, payments for non- merchandise transactions, and capital transactions and transfers. The Bank of Korea, as the Gov- ernment's agent, executes the above functions in part; it regulates operations in the certificate market and is authorized to intervene in it. The Bank has also been delegated authority to control receipts and payments related to invisibles. The Korea Exchange Bank, whose capital is wholly subscribed by the Government and the Bank of Korea, has taken over from the latter all its international banking and foreign exchange business. The Korea Exchange Bank and the exchange banks, as well as the branch offices in Korea of foreign banks, are authorized to deal in foreign exchange. 292 Some imports and exports are subject to approval by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry or the ministries concerned. The Minis- try of Commerce and Industry has delegated its licensing authority to the exchange banks, except for those commodities that are not explicitly shown in the SITC code. Prescription of Currency All settlements between Korea and other coun- tries are made in convertible currencies. Korea has a bilateral payments agreement with Viet- Nam, but no clearing account has yet been estab- lished. An arrangement with Indonesia provides for certain settlements to be effected through escrow accounts, but the account has not been established and no transactions have taken place under this arrangement. The proceeds of exports must be obtained in prescribed currencies (Canadian dollars, deutsche mark, French francs, Hong Kong dollars, Italian lire, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, Swedish kronor, or U.S. dollars).1 The methods of pay- ment on account of other settlements require the approval of the Ministry of Finance. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents and Korean workers abroad may maintain foreign currency deposit accounts with foreign exchange banks. Remittances from such accounts and withdrawals in the form of currency notes upon departure from Korea may, in general, be made freely. The approval of the bank where the account is held is required for remittances from balances that have accrued from remunera- tion for services in Korea, air or ship passage fares, or insurance premiums received in Korea, or from exchange deposited in accordance with a decision of the Ministry of Finance (except exchange registered at the customs on entry or remitted from abroad). The deposits may be dis- posed of by sale to a foreign exchange bank at 1On February 18, 1970 the following also became prescribed currencies: Australian dollars, Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, Netherlands guilders, and Norwegian kroner. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the prevailing exchange rate, and they may be debited for salary payments to foreign employees. Certain residents of Korean na t iona l i ty, such as the airline and some insurance companies, may m a i n t a in current deposit accounts in foreign currencies with the foreign exchange banks. imports and import Payments Imports f rom Rhodesia are proh ib i ted. All imports require licenses; for certain imports (see below) licenses are issued upon application. No licenses are issued for any goods o r ig ina t ing in communist countries and for certain imports from all o ther countries. Imports are d iv ided in to three categories: those paid for with Korean foreign exchange (so-called KFX impo r ts ), those paid for with foreign aid funds, and those financed by Japanese reparations (PAC impo r ts ). KFX imports are classified as au toma t ic approval, restricted, or prohibited items. All commodities may be imported freely (i.e., applications for import licenses are automatically approved) unless they are in a list of restricted or prohibited commodities. Au tom a t ic approval items (713 out of 1,312 basic items in the SITC classification) consist ma in ly of essential consumer goods not domestically produced and cer ta in raw materials and capital goods. Restricted items (525) in a negative list are subject to ind iv idual licenses. Prohibited items (74) are mainly luxu ry goods, items prohibited for reasons of public hea l th or morals, and some domestically produced goods. Imports of raw ma ter ia ls for the production of exports are approved au toma t ica l ly, irrespective of their classification. Foreign aid imports are classified as either au toma t ic approval items or restricted items. In principle, no commodities imported with foreign aid funds are included among the KFX imports, but in exceptional cases payment for imports usually financed w i th aid f u n ds may be made w i th KFX exchange. For purposes of licensing imports from specified countries, the position of Korea's balance of trade with the country concerned is taken into account. Import licenses are granted only to registered traders; to ma in ta in the status of a registered trader, a m in imum value of US$200,000 of exports is required each year. The commercial terms of payment on which KOREA imports may be contracted are regulated, and advance import deposits are required for most categories of imports by the private sector; these are met, for KFX imports, by deposit of exchange certificates and/or local currency at the time of applying for import licenses. The exchange certificate deposits are, in effect, advance payments offset against the import settle- ment; the won equivalent of any amount of de- posit in excess of the import settlement is repaid to the importer at the time of the release of the relative b i ll of lading. Imports by the private sector under U.S. aid programs are subject to prior won cash paymen ts of part of the import settlement, and imports with Japanese Property and Claims Funds (PAC imports) are subject to prior payments of part of the import settlement in exchange certificates. Advance deposits for KFX imports, other than raw materials for the production of exports, range be tween zero and 200 per cent according to the n a tu re of the import, the commercial terms of paymen t, and the source of procurement (cer- ta in classifications of imports incur higher advance deposits if procured from countries w i th in ten days' shipping distance from Korea; the Government is authorized to apply the higher deposits also to imports from any country whose exports to Korea in any year are more than twice the value of exports from Korea to that coun t ry ) .- Advance deposits for KFX imports of raw ma ter ia ls for exports range between zero and 30 per cent according to the commodity and the status of the export production, i.e., whether the la t ter is covered by an export contract or an export letter of credit; in some cases bank guar- antees covering the balance of the import value in excess of the advance deposit are also required. Advance deposits for imports of equip- ment and facilities financed with domestic loans in foreign exchange are, for imports for export industries, 10 per cent for imports from countries w i th in ten days' shipping distance while no 2 With effect from January 29, 1970, advance deposit requirements were uniformly applied, irrespective of the origin of imports. The rates were 100 per cent or 150 per cent for imports against sight letters of credit, 30 per cent for documents against acceptance basis and usance imports, and 50 per cent for imports on docu- ments against payment basis and bonded warehouse transaction terms. 293 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA deposit is required for imports from other coun- tries; fu r th er payments of 20 per cent are required upon the release of bills of lading, w i th the balance of the payment settled in accordance with the terms of the loan. For other imports financed by such loans, the advance deposit requirement is 30 per cent, with the balance of the payment settled in accordance with the terms of the loan. Imports eligible for settlement on a one-year documents against acceptance basis and imports of the Government and of government-operated enterprises are not subject to advance deposit requirements. The Ministry of Finance has au tho r i ty to apply to any import commodity that it deems nonessen- tial a special customs ta r i f f, which provides for an additional tax of 70 per cent or 90 per cent of the d i f fe ren t ial between estimated wholesale value of the commodity and import price plus normal profit. The au thor i ty has been invoked in respect of a number of commodities. Furthermore, the Government may alter import duty rates adm in is- tratively by up to 50 percentage points. Payments for invisibles All payments for invisibles requ i re ind iv idual licenses. Payments for invisibles connected w i th foreign trade transactions and for certain other items, such as banking charges, insurance premi- ums, communication fees, and periodicals, are licensed automatically. There are certain s tandard allocations for business travel. Moreover, export- ers whose foreign exchange earnings exceed the equivalent of US$100,000 a year may use part of such earnings for business travel or other trade promotion purposes, such as m a i n t a i n i ng overseas branches. In addition, exporters are authorized to use exchange earnings up to an amount of US$5,000 a month for the expenses of their overseas branches. All residents departing for travel abroad may purchase foreign exchange up to the equivalent of US$900 a mon th; they may purchase an additional US$100 for each trip for extra expenses. Students studying abroad may receive a monthly living allowance of up to US$300. Foreign and Korean currency notes may not be exported without special permission. Non- resident foreigners need not register foreign 294 exchange in specified currencies that they bring into Korea and, when departing, they may recon- vert unused won notes into U.S. dollars up to US$100, subject to confirmation of the original sale of exchange (up to US$50 w i thout such con- firmation); nonresident foreigners bringing in nonspecified currencies may be requested to reg- ister the amoun ts involved. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia or communist coun- tries, and exports of certain goods (such as raw cotton, p la t inum ores, wood charcoal, pulp, and waste paper) to all other countries, are prohib- ited. Certain exports require individual licenses. All other exports may be made freely under an auto- matic approval procedure. The export proceeds in foreign exchange must either be surrendered to the Korea Exchange Bank or other exchange banks at the market rate or be exchanged into equivalent foreign exchange certificates. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds derived from invisibles must e i ther be sold to the Korea Exchange Bank or other exchange banks or be exchanged for equiv- alent exchange certificates. The import of Korean currency notes requires special authorization. Travelers may bring with them any amount of foreign exchange. Capital All capital remittances require approval. For- eign capital inves tmen t, loans from abroad, and imports of capital goods on a long-term basis can secure a guarantee of repayment and repatriation under the Foreign Capital Inducement Law. No l im i ts are placed on conversion and remittance of legitimate profits and dividends, and up to 20 per cent of the original capital invested plus any rein- vestment may be repatriated each year, two years f rom the commencement of operations in Korea. Gold Residents may freely buy, hold, and sell gold coins, gold bullion, and gold leaf in Korea; how- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ever, holdings of gold coins curren t ly c ircu la t ing as legal tender are not permitted, except for nu- mismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies and author- ized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any fo rm other than jewe lry, in Korea or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry con s t i tu t ing the per- sonal effec ts of a traveler require licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au tho r i t ies and authorized indus tr ial users. Changes during 1969 January 1. The advance deposit requ i remen ts for impor ts f rom coun tr ies w i th in ten days' ship- ping d is tance from Korea were raised as follows for imports other than raw ma ter ia ls for exports: (a) on a documents against payment basis, from 30 per cent to 50 per cent; (b) on a documents against acceptance basis, f rom 10 per cent to 30 per cent; and (c) on a sight letter of credit basis, f rom 100 per cent to 150 per cent for imports subject to customs du ty at rates rang- ing from 30 per cent to 49 per cent, and f rom 150 per cent to 200 per cent for imports subject to customs du ty in excess of 49 per cent. January 1. The export and import regu la t ions for the first ha lf of 1969 went in to e f fec t. All trade w i th Rhodesia was prohibited. February 14. The regulations concerning imported fac i l i t ies used for export produc t ion were revised. The end-users and not the import- ers came und er the control of the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indu s t ry; and the end-users of fac i l i t ies f inanced w i th foreign cu r rency loans were required to export the equ iva lent of 300 per cent of the import va lue of the fac i l i t ies du r ing the first two years and 200 per cent annu a l ly during the following three years. February 19. Restrictions were placed on the import of tallow and unrendered fa ts of cattle, sheep, and goats. March 3. The M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry revised the Imp lemen ta t ion Decree of the Trading Law as follows: (1) the Minister of Ag r icu l tu re and Forestry could authorize organi- KOREA zations designated for handling an imal feeds to export and import such products. Organizations appointed by the Minister of Ag r icu l tu re and Forestry could import raw ma ter ia ls to be used in domestic produc t ion; (2) sales of goods to Korean soldiers in Viet-Nam against certificates designated in foreign currency (MFC's) could be counted as exports; and (3) domestic deliveries of raw ma te r ia ls for export processing to makers of export goods would be considered as export performance, thus mak ing suppliers of domestic raw materials for exports eligible to receive import credit financing. March 5. Procedures were announced for the impo rt of fac i l i t ies for export industries with financing f rom foreign currency loans to be extended by the two U.S. bank branches in Korea. Loans would be extended to 24 export indus t r ies. Imports of facilities would be financed up to 70 per cent of the total import va lue (up to 30 per cent for imports from a country for which the standard sh ipp ing period is less than ten days) while loan repayments were to be made over two years, subject to an annual inter- est rate of 12 per cent. April 3. Three au toma t ic approval import items were transferred to the restricted category. The procedures for imports of 57 of the 159 quo ta items in the trade program were announced. The total import value of the 57 quo ta items was raised by US$1.5 million, to US$2.9 m i l l ion. Eligible applicants were limited to suppliers of domestic raw materials to export indus t r ies. April 4. The regulations to govern the import of ten fiber items, including wool and nylon fibers, were announced. April 12. Exports could generally be made on a usance basis, provided that relevant letters of credit were received. Previously, usance exports were permitted only to traders with an export record of over US$500,000 du r ing the previous year. April 23. Green shelled and unshelled ground- nuts were transferred f rom the prohibited import list to the restricted list. April 30. Twelve of the 33 items importable 295 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KOREA under U.S. aid given in the form of supporting assistance and special letter of credit funds, including polyester fiber and polypropylene fiber, could be imported only from the United States while the other 21 items could either be procured from sources other than the United States by set- dement with free exchange or from the United States under the forms of aid mentioned. May 1. The Monetary Board established pro- cedures for financing the production of raw mate- rials for export production; financing of up to W 220 per US$1 would be extended to suppliers of domestic raw materials, while repayment was to be made within 90-135 days, subject to an annual interest rate of 6 per cent. May 1. Export credit for exports on the basis of documents against payment or acceptance was extended upon the conclusion of export contracts and not following shipment, as previously. The interest rate was 6 per cent per annum. May 1. Export financing for domestic supplies for which payment was made in foreign currency (such as sales to diplomatic missions) was raised from W 150 to W 180 per US$1. May 9. The regulations governing imports on documents against acceptance basis were revised: exporters of agricultural, fishery, and m in ing products were permitted to import on this basis up to the equivalent of 50 per cent of their exports sold between December 1968 and November 1969. Previously, all exporters were allowed to import on this basis up to 15 per cent of their exports, except suppliers of domestic raw materials who were allowed to import on a docu- ments against acceptance basis up to 50 per cent of their foreign exchange earnings. May 19. The advance import deposit require- ment was raised from 150 per cent to 200 per cent for imports of phthalic anhydride, tire cord yarn, and fabrics on a sight letter of credit basis from countries within ten days' shipping distance. May 22. All control prices for export goods were eliminated. May 23. Exporters of vessels were allowed to import 13 specified items (including raw wool, polyester fiber, and filament ya rn) up to the 296 equivalent of 50 per cent of the value of vessels exported since December 30, 1968. May 24. Foreign firms which exported more than 90 per cent of their output in 1968 were permitted to import parts for export processing machinery duty free. June 1. Advance import deposit requirements on KFX imports of machinery and facilities for the export industry were eliminated for imports from countries more than ten days' shipping dis- tance from Korea. June 2. The trade program for the second half of 1969 was announced; crude and partly refined petroleum were transferred from the automatic approval import list to the restricted list. June 9. Exporters of marine products were permitted to import 57 specified quota items up to the equivalent of 20 per cent of the value of their exports. June 19. The Monetary Board revised the "Regulations on Handling Foreign Currency Loans." The max imum amount of such loans was raised from 70 per cent to 100 per cent of the total import value for imports from countries more than ten days' shipping distance from Korea. June 21. Advance deposit rates for imports of logs, copper ores, scrap iron, and plate glass were reduced to a uniform rate of 100 per cent in an effort to stabilize domestic market prices. June 27. One previously prohibited import item and three au toma t ic approval items were transferred to the restricted list. June 28. Measures under which the Govern- ment and government enterprises had been allowed exceptionally to import automobiles were withdrawn. July 1. The regulation governing imports on a documents against acceptance basis was amended: exporters with export proceeds of more than US$1 million during January-June 1969 were permitted to import on this basis up to a total ceiling of US$20 million. July 1. Regulations notifying the machinery parts that were eligible for import specified that such imports from areas with which Korea was in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution heavy trade deficit would be subject to the prior approval of the Minister of Commerce and Industry. July 1. The concession allowing exporters of vessels to import fiber items up to the equ iva lent of 50 per cent of the value of their exports was w i thdrawn. July 16. Ships and boats which could be built domestically were prohibited for import. July 16. The Rules for the Enforcement Decree of the Trade Transactions Law were revised. Recipients of export letters of credit for ma r ine products valued at US$100,000 or more could be licensed to do export-import business upon recommendation of the Adm in i s t ra tor of the Office of Fishery. Quarrying firms receiving export letters of credit for US$200,000 or more could also qua l i fy to be traders upon recommen- dation of the Minister of Construction. August 1. Imports eligible for settlement on a one-year documents against acceptance basis were exempted from advance import deposit requirements. August 1. As an inducement for Koreans working overseas to remit earnings home, the m in imum balance to qua l i fy for maintenance of a foreign currency savings account was reduced from US$1,000 to US$100. August 5. Two import items were transferred from the automatic approval to the restricted import category. August 8. All restrictions were removed on exporting on a documents against payment and documents against acceptance basis. August 14. Procedures were announced gov- erning the import of quota items to the value of US$2.6 million for the second half of 1969. August 21. Entitlements to import on medium- term (90 days to one year) documents against acceptance basis were classified into three grades based on the trader's export record. September 3. Procedures for foreign currency loans for the import of export facilities were revised, raising the financing ratio from 30 per KOREA cent to 70 per cent where the standard shipping period was less than ten days. September 4. In order to expedite imports of machinery and other facilities for the export indus t ry, the advance import deposit requirement for such imports from countries within ten days' shipping distance of Korea against KFX loans was reduced from 70 per cent to 30 per cent. September 25. One import item was switched from the au toma t ic approval import list to the restricted category. October 22. Na tural rubber and certain hides were transferred from the automatic approval import list to the restricted list. November 3. The foreign exchange banks' sell- ing rate for the U.S. dollar was changed from W 291.90 to W 305.10. This was the first sizable adjustment since Korea adopted a fluctuating exchange rate in 1965. The margin between the buy ing and selling rates of the exchange banks was increased from W 1 to W 1.50 per U.S. dollar. November 14. The import of specified pharma- ceuticals was liberalized as part of a price stabili- zation program involving the urgent importation against KFX of US$20 million of commodities outside the trade program for the second half of 1969. November 20. Imports of bananas from the Republic of China were linked to exports of canned peaches to that country. November 22. Under the price stabilization program (see November 14, above), various reg- ulations were eased temporarily to speed up the importation of 98 essential commodities. November 28. The Export-Import Program for the first half of 1970 was published. The provi- sions concerning restricted and prohibited imports went into effect immediately. The other provi- sions went into effect on January 1, 1970. December 30. The foreign exchange budget for 1970 was published. Imports of nonessential goods and imports on a deferred payment basis would be subject to additional restriction. Export industries would be given increased support in the form of foreign currency loans. 297 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Kuw a i ti D inar or KD 1 = US$2.80. The commercial banks' rates for telegraphic trans- fers on London are KD 0.8550 buying, and KD 0.8593 selling, per <£ stg. 1. Rates for other currencies in the official market are based on London ma rket rates. There is a free ma rket in which exchange other than Israel pounds, Portu- guese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South Afri- can rand may be dealt in without restrictions as to its origin or use, and in which rates, in prac- tice, d i f f er from official market rates by less than 1 per cent. On December 31, 1969, the average selling rate for the U.S. dollar in the official ma rket was KD 0.3585 per US$1, and in the free ma rket it was w i th in a range of KD 0.35825 to KD 0.35875 per US$1. On April 5, 1963, Kuwa it notified the Fund that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control There is no exchange control legislation in Kuwa i t. Control is exercised only over the provi- sion of exchange in the official market for pay- men ts to territories outside the Sterling Area and over the manner of payment to other Sterling Area territories. It is administered by the Central Bank of Kuwa i t. Au tho r i ty to provide exchange for imports and related payments and, within limits, for travel is delegated to the banks operat- ing in Kuwa i t. Ind iv idual Letters of Recommen- dation, required for other payments through the official ma rket in currencies other than those of the Sterling Area, are issued by the Central Bank. General and ind iv idual import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Indus try. The l im i ted control over exports is adminis- tered by the Customs and Ports Administration of the Ministry of Finance and Oil. Prescription of Currency tion of currency requirements broadly similar to those of other parts of the Sterling Area. Pay- ments to other countries in the Sterling Area except South Afr ica may be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Payments through the official ma rket to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an Ex ternal Account or in a non-sterling cur- rency appropriate to the country to which the payment is made. Payments from other countries in the Sterling Area may be received in any Ster- l ing Area currency. Apart from payments to the Governmen t, paymen ts from countries outside the Sterling Area are not, in practice, received th rough the official ma rke t. All settlements with Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between accounts held by residents and those held by nonresidents. imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all private imports other than foods tu f fs; licenses are issued free ly, except for wheat, flour, and asbestos pipe. Registered importers handling a variety of com- modities may obtain a general license valid for one year. Other importers must obtain specific licenses for individual commodities, which are also va l id for one year. All imports from Israel, inc lud ing imports of Israeli manu fac tu re and those that contain Israeli materials or are manu- fac tu red by companies financed by Israeli capital, and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Imports of oxygen, certain steel pipes, alcoholic beverages, and used t rucks and buses are prohibited from all sources. To be registered, the importer must be either a Kuwa i ti citizen or a firm in which all partners are Kuwa i t is or a shareholding or limited liability company in which Kuwaitis own at least 51 per cent of all stock. Commercial imports normally are limited to registered importers. Kuwa it is a member of the Sterling Area, and the banks operating in Kuwait observe prescrip- Sterling Area currencies other than South Afri- can rand are provided freely for payments to res- 298 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution idents of the Sterling Area for imports or for other purposes. Imports from any permitted source may be paid for with exchange acquired in the free marke t. The banks opera t ing in Kuw a it are authorized to provide External Account sterling or a non- sterling currency other than Israel pounds, Portu- guese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds for pay- ments for impor ts from outside the Sterling Area, provided that they receive a fu ll set of documents covering the import and, when payment is to be made in sterling to the credit of an External Accoun t, t h at they provide con f i rma t ion they are satisfied that the goods will be landed in Kuwa i t. When payment is made in a non-sterling cur- rency, the banks operate on the basis of b lanket or nonspecific Letters of Recommenda t ion which authorize them to obtain non-sterling currencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds in London up to certain limits and to t ran s fer them to accounts in the country of the currency involved. When the limits are reached, the banks obtain fu r th er authorizations under new Letters of Recommenda t ion on accoun t ing for the use of the prev ious allocations. For payments for goods purchased in countries ou ts ide the Sterling Area for resale w i thout ship- ment to Kuwa i t, exchange is provided through the o f f ic ial m a r k et only if a b ank gua ran tees th at the proceeds of the resale will be returned to K uw a i t; however, the proceeds of re-exportation of impo r ts financed through the o f f ic ial m a rk et need not be surrendered. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely to residents of other Sterling Area coun tr ies except South A f r ica, or to residents of any coun t ry other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia in exchange acqu ired in the free ma rke t. Access to the official ma rket is subject to authorization as stated below. Paymen ts th rough the off ic ial ma rket to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Por tuga l, or Rhodesia may be made in s te r l ing to the credit of an Ex te rnal Account or in a non-sterling currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodesian pounds for expenses related to imports (such as KUWAIT f re ight and in su rance ), as part of the arrange- men ts on paymen ts for imports and thus subject to the same conditions (see section on Imports and Impo rt Payments, above ). The banks operat- ing in Kuw a it have been granted general author- ity to sell to K uw a i ti na t iona ls non-sterling cur- rencies other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, or Rhodes ian pounds up to the equiva- lent of KD 500 a person for each t r ip for travel and o ther sund ry expenses outside the Sterling Area, w i thout specific reference to the Central Bank. For business travel, the amount may be increased up to KD 20 a day for a maximum period of three mon ths; this allowance is applica- ble to all members of the fam i ly who accompany a bus iness trave ler. Travelers may take with them any am o u nt in Kuw a i ti or other banknotes except Israe l, Portuguese, Rhodes ian, or South African cu r rency. For all other paymen ts for invisibles to coun- tr ies ou ts ide the Sterling Area other than Israel, Po r tuga l, or Rhodesia which are made through the o f f ic ial ma rke t, a separate Letter of Recom- menda t ion must be obtained from the Central B ank for each paymen t. Such authorization will be g ran ted to provide exchange for medical or educa t ional expenses abroad, if approval is ob ta ined f rom the competent m in is t ry. Foreign na t iona ls wo rk ing in Kuwa it may remit abroad up to 75 per cent of their basic wages or salaries and, on depa r tu re, may transfer their savings. The t r an s f er of income on foreign capital invested in Kuwa it will be au thor ized up to the amount of net profits, inc lud ing past earnings, on presen ta t ion of an audited statement. Similarly, a Letter of Recommenda t ion w i ll be issued to cover paymen ts for business services, if the application is accompanied by an aud i ted certificate. The Cen t ral Bank w i ll also issue to Kuw a i ti n a t ion a ls Letters of Recommenda t ion providing an annual allowance in any currency except Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, or South Afr ican rand of the equivalent of up to KD 3,000 for each fam i ly. This may be used for additional travel funds, for personal rem i t tances, or for any other purpose, including the transfer of capital. This exchange is automati- ca l ly available; larger amoun ts require special authorization by the Central Bank. 299 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution KUWAIT Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of live sheep and poultry are prohib- ited, and those of certain other items, such as sugar and fats, may be either licensed or prohib- ited in time of emergency or shortage in Kuwa i t. Exports of arms, ammunition, and scrap metal require licenses. Licenses are not required for other exports or re-exports. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. There are no requirements attached to receipts from exports or re-exports, except that these must not accrue in Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodésian pounds, or South African rand; the proceeds need not be repatriated or surrendered, and they may be disposed of freely, regardless of the currency involved. Proceeds from invisibles No requirements are attached to the use or dis- posal of receipts in any currency other than Israel pounds, Portuguese escudos, Rhodésian pounds, or South African rand. Travelers entering Kuwait may bring with them any amount in Kuwaiti or other banknotes except Israel, Portuguese, Rhodésian, or South African currency. Capital There are no exchange control obligations on the transfer to Kuwa it of resident or nonresident capital in any currency. Government agreement is necessary for the participation of nonresident capital in corporations in Kuwait, and a license is required for the establishment and operation of industries in Kuwait; except for petroleum com- panies, 51 per cent of ownership of new Kuwaiti companies must be held by Kuwaiti nationals. Although the Central Bank supervises outward capital movements to all destinations, no restric- tions are imposed on outward capital payments by residents or nonresidents to other countries in the Sterling Area except South Africa, or to any country other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia if the payment is made through the free market. A Letter of Recommendation from the Central Bank is required if a currency other than a Ster- ling Area currency is to be transferred through 300 the official market. When a firm in which nonres- ident capital is involved is liquidated, permission is given automatically for the repatriation through the official market of the nonresident capital involved, in a currency appropriate to the resi- dence of the investor. Under a resolution of September 1963 of the Ministry of Finance and Oil, Kuwaiti nationals may be granted permission to transfer capital through the official market, within limits approved by the exchange control authorities, to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel, Portugal, or Rhodesia for investment purposes, provided that the application is sup- ported by sufficient information regarding the purpose of the investment and the country to which the remittance is made. Local banks are granted permission without restriction to invest their deposits outside the Sterling Area except in Israel, Portugal, and Rhodesia. Transfers of capital for other purposes by resi- dents through the official market to countries out- side the Sterling Area are generally not permitted beyond an amount equivalent to KD 3,000 a family a year (see section on Payments for Invisibles, above). Additional amounts are sub- ject to the approval of the Central Bank, which is granted only in exceptional cases. Gold The monetary authorities and merchants regis- tered with the Ministry of Trade and Industry may import and export gold in any form, pro- vided that such gold is not less than 18-carat fine; gold jewelry, however, cannot be imported or sold unless it is properly hallmarked. Kuwaiti nationals may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Other residents may, on arrival or departure, bring in and take out their holdings of gold in any form, without restriction or license. Imports of gold in any form are exempt from all customs duties and taxes. Changes during 1969 April 1. The Central Bank of Kuwait started operations and the Kuwait Currency Board ceased to function. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS Exchange Raie System No par va lue for the Laotian Kip has been established with the Fund. The official rate is K 240 = US$1. This rate applies to imports of aid goods; government requirements; 20 per cent or 40 per cent of the proceeds from exports of tin ore and concentrates (depending on g rade ); 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of lumbe r; 10 per cent of other export proceeds; and speci- fied invisibles. All other transactions take place in an official free market.1 The National Bank of Laos conducts exchange transactions with author- ized banks only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling, at rates equivalent to K 240.00 buying, and K 242.40 selling, per US$1. Banks are authorized to charge commissions not exceeding 1 per cent on purchases and sales of these currencies. A Foreign Exchange Operations Fund (FEOF) intervenes in the official free ma rket to m a i n t a in orderly conditions and to counteract the expansionary effect of the budget deficit. Residents and nonresidents are permitted to m a in t a in accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks. These accounts may be cred- ited with un l im i ted amoun ts in foreign exchange and may be debited for any payments by the account holder. Transfers between these accounts may be made freely. Balances on them may be sold against kips either at the free market rate or, for specified purposes, at the official rate. Administration of Control The National Exchange Office of the Ministry of Finance authorizes imports under the foreign assistance import programs, authorizes payments at the official rate for invisibles, and records exports. The Foreign Trade Department of the Ministry of National Economy issues export licenses. The five commercial banks are author- ized to deal, on account of customers only, in foreign exchange at the official and free market rates. 1 Since April 1967, the official free market rate has been maintained at approximately K 505 per US$1. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are imposed on receipts or payments, but the Na t ional Bank provides exchange for authorized paymen ts and accepts export proceeds only in U.S. dollars, French francs, and pounds sterling. There is a bilateral payments agreement with the U.S.S.R. providing for payments to be made through a clearing account maintained in French f rancs as the un it of account. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents are permitted to maintain accounts in foreign currencies with authorized banks (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports and import Payments All impor ters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Imports of charcoal, bricks, roof tiles, matches, rubber sandals, coffee, ice cream, soft dr inks, and plastic bags are pro- h ib i ted, although import licenses are granted when shortages arise. Imports are divided into two categories: ( 1) those made in accordance w i th the import program financed by the United S ta tes ;2 (2) all other imports, for which the impor ter has to supply his own foreign exchange and which are not subject to licensing. There is a list of commodities which may be imported under the import program financed by the Un i ted States (rice,3 specified petroleum products, agricultural and industrial machinery, and trucks and bu se s ); certain of these commodi- ties may not be imported from specified countries.1 However, those petroleum products 2 Similar import programs financed by assistance from Aus tra l ia and the United Kingdom ran out toward the end of 1968. 3 In practice, no rice has been imported under the U.S. import program in the past few years. 4 The countries from which goods may not be imported under the U.S. import program are Australia, Aus tr ia, Belgium, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Luxem- bourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, United King- dom, and communist countries (defined as not including Yugoslavia). 301 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LAOS for which specific U.S. aid is still made available may be imported f rom some of the countries on the list of excluded countries. Under the import program financed w i th foreign aid, importers apply to the Exchange Office for licenses. A f ter clearance in respect of va lua t ion, the exchange licenses au toma t ica l ly become import licenses; for imports under the U.S. import program, the val- ua t ion is checked by the U.S. Agency for Inter- na t ional Development. Under the program, sup- pliers are paid d irect from the Special Letter of Credit opened by the U.S. Government at the Chase Manha t tan Bank of New York in favor of the Royal Lao Governmen t, a f ter the goods involved have been certified as conforming to the lists of commodities qu a l i f i ed for fore ign financ- ing. The Na t ional Bank does not m ake foreign exchange ava i lab le to pay for imports outside the import program, w i th the exception of impor ts to meet government requ i remen ts. However, import- ers are free to ob ta in exchange through the official free market for any amount of imports; impor ts financed in th is manner may be obtained from any noncommun ist coun try. Under the import program financed w i th for- eign aid, all importers are requ ired to make a covering payment of 100 per cent for letters of credit opened, except for tractors, for which the covering payment is 50 per cent w i th the balance to be paid w i th in three years af ter the sale. For customs va lua t ion purposes, the exchange rate for most imports not financed with foreign aid is K 500 per US$1; for all other goods it is K 240 per US$1. Payments for Invisibles Payments for certain specified invisibles that are granted foreign exchange at the official rate of K 240 per US$1 require licenses, which are issued by the Exchange Office. Freight and insur- ance in connection w i th impor ts under the foreign aid import program are regarded as a part of the import paymen t. There is an annual foreign exchange budget for paymen ts for inv is ib les pay- able at the official rate. The categories of pay- ments for invisibles for which the National Bank sells foreign exchange in accordance with this budget are as follows: official transfers, covering 302 off ic ial expenditures by the Government; all or part of the loan service payments by certain pub l ic enterprises; private transfers, covering ins ta l la t ion allowances of civil servants abroad, s tudy abroad ( in i t ial installation, monthly allow- ances up to specified limits, transport, and other m isce l laneous expenses), and f am i ly mainte- nance; and other transfers, covering mostly unforeseen expenses. All other payments for invisibles are unrestricted, but must be conducted th rough the official free market. Travelers may take out any amount of domestic or foreign bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exporters must pay an annual registration fee to the Government. Exports of gold and silver are prohibited, except when made by or on beha lf of the monetary authorities. All other exports are subject to authorization, but licenses are au toma t ica l ly issued. Twenty or 40 per cent of proceeds f rom exports of tin ore and concen- trates, depend ing on grade, 20 per cent of the proceeds from exports of lumber, and 10 per cent of all other export proceeds must be surrendered in U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds sterling at the off ic ial ra te to the National Bank; the rema inder may be kept abroad or with domestic banks, sold in the free market, or used for any o ther purpose. W i th the exception of one of the two tin companies, all exporters are required to deposit with the National Bank, prior to domicil- ing the export license with this Bank, the portion of the ir an t ic ipa ted export proceeds that is sub- ject to surrender; the National Exchange Office gives its visa only on export licenses that have been anno ta ted by the National Bank to show that th is requirement has been complied with. Should an exporter be paid in a currency other than U.S. dollars, French francs, or pounds ster- l ing, he must exchange the part that is subject to surrender into one of the acceptable currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles The following must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate: ( 1) foreign exchange converted by fore ign embassies, missions, representatives, and institutions to cover their official expenses in Laos (other than salaries of foreign employees); ( 2) settlements received by any Laotian resident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from foreign insurance companies; and (3) resi- dent companies' foreign exchange earnings from services and other invisibles. Companies surren- dering their earnings from invisibles are entitled to repurchase at the official rate 50 per cent of the exchange sold. Certain public enterprises, such as Royal Air Lao, are exempt from the sur- render requ iremen t. Travelers may bring in any amount of foreign or domestic banknotes. Capital Capital may flow in and out, free from any exchange control requirements, through the off ic ial free ma rke t. LAOS gold in any form w i th in the country. Banks and o ther res iden ts who are recognized as industrial users or as importers of gold also may freely impo rt gold in any form, subject to payment of 7.5 per cent customs du ty (calculated at the free m a r k et ra te of the U.S. dollar and the official gold price of US$35 per ounce ). Exports of gold by or on beha lf of physical or jur id ical persons o ther th an the mone ta ry authorities are prohib- i ted. Commercial imports and exports of articles con ta in ing a m inor quan t i ty of gold are freely pe rm i t ted. Changes during 1969 Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell January 29. The import du ty on gold was reduced f rom 8.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent. 303 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LEBANON Exchange Rate System On Ju ly 29, 1947 a par value for the Lebanese Pound was established by Lebanon w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. All transactions take place at free market rates, which for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1969 were about LL 3.25 per US$1. Pending the establishment of a new par value with the Fund, a "provisional legal parity" of LL 3.08 = US$1 is applied for the valuation of official assets and government transactions in foreign exchange and for customs valuation purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign payments. Prescription of Currency In general, no requirements are imposed on exchange payments abroad or receipts in Leba- non. In some cases, transactions with certain countries with which Lebanon has payments agreements specifying the method or channel of payment may be made through specific accounts.1 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few goods from any source and all imports f rom Israel and Rhodesia are prohib- ited. All imports of arms and imports valued at over LL 500 of certain other commodities (including wheat, barley, beet and cane sugar, menthol, leather bags, ladies' dresses, industrial machinery, olive oil, molasses, brushes, poultry, gasoline, kerosene, and liquid gas) that are for the most part produced locally are subject to prior licensing. Import licenses are also required for all machinery for the installation or expansion of m a n u f a c t u r i ng plants. Import licenses for raw and refined sugar are conditional on purchases of domestic sugar. Licenses are granted for six months and may be renewed for an additional six months (or longer, for imports of indus tr ial mach ine ry ). All other commodities may be imported freely w i thout license. Exchange to pay for imports may be obtained freely through the free market. A municipalities tax of 3.5 per cent is levied on the value of all goods imported by sea or air. A surcharge of 10 per cent or 120 per cent of the applicable import duty is levied on specified textiles and garments. Payments for invisibles No restrictions are placed on payments for invisibles. Exchange may be obtained freely through the free market. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of a few goods (scraps of iron, cast iron, lead, and t in) to any country, re-exports of certain goods to any destination, and all exports to Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports valued at over LL 200 of a few items—such as livestock, wheat and wheat products, barley, apples, Egyptian cotton, newsprint, petroleum, petroleum products, industrial and agricultural machines and equipment, and certain metals—to any country and all products intended for export to North Korea require export licenses. Exports of apples to Arab countries are limited to a spec- ified monthly quota. Re-exports to North Korea are subject to prior clearance by the Ministry of Na t ional Economy. Exchange receipts from exports may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles may be retained, used, or sold freely in the free market. Capital The liquid foreign assets of registered banks must not exceed 25 per cent of their total assets. Otherwise, there are no limitations on capital payments or receipts. Exchange may be obtained or sold freely through the free market. Gold 1 These countries are Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Poland, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and United Arab Republic. There is also an inoperative payments agree- ment with Guinea. Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home or abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents and nonresidents at home 304 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are free ly perm i t ted and do not require a license. However, the impor t, export, and domes- tic sale of foreign gold coins that no longer are legal tender must be covered by a certificate indi- cating the gold content and weight and issued by the Service for the Protection of the Consumer. Changes during 1969 During the year, the liquid foreign assets of registered banks were limited to 25 per cent of their total deposits, and the customs surcharge on specified garments was increased from 10 per cent to 120 per cent of the applicable import du ty. January 6. Imports of raw and ref ined sugar were made conditional upon an und e r t ak ing by the importer to purchase, from the Office des Cé- réales et de la Betterave Sucrière and at an offi- cially fixed price, a quantity of domestically pro- duced sugar equal to 25 per cent of sugar to be imported. The quan t i ty of raw sugar that the LEBANON local refineries could import in 1969 was limited to 30,000 tons. January 7. The prohibition on the import of potassium n i tra te was lifted. February 24. Imports of liquid milk, canned or bottled, were prohibited. April 5. Imports of sheet glass were restricted and made conditional upon purchases of the domestic product. May 20. Order No. 2714 modified the import du t ies and customs surcharges on specified tex- tiles of Japanese origin, mak ing these subject to most-favored-nation rates. June. Exports of copper scrap were made cond i t ional on sales to domestic users. August 21. Exports of asphalt were made sub- ject to license. September 18. Certain edible oils and fa ts were made subject to import licenses. 305 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LESOTHO Exchange System Lesotho's currency is the South A f r ican Rand, the par v a l ue of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South A f r ica 's fixed rates for s ter l ing aga inst rand and the London ma rket rates for s te r l ing against other currenc ies. Lesotho is regarded as fo rm ing part of the South A f r i c an exchange control terr i tory l and of the S te r l ing Area. By v i r tue of the Customs Un ion Ag reement of 1910, Lesotho also is pa rt of the South A f r i c an customs area .2 In p r i n c i p l e, p aym en ts for t r an s a c t ions t h at a re considered cu r- rent t ransac t ions, w h i le sub ject to control, are not res t r ic ted. App l ica t ions for ou tw a rd cap i tal trans- fers are considered on the ir me r i ts. Impor ts are u s u a l ly licensed in con fo rm i ty w i th South A f r ica 's import regu la t ions, since few Lesotho firms 1 For purposes of con trol over t ran sac t ions in secur i- ties, res iden ts of Lesotho are not regarded as residents of Sou th A f r i c a. 2 A revised Cus toms Un ion Ag reement was signed on December 11, 1969, to come in to force on Ma rch 1, 1970. import d irect from countries other than South A f r i c a; d i rect imports from such countries, how- ever, are not subject to South Africa's import regulations. Inwa rd cap i tal t rans fe rs requ i re exchange con- trol approva l, but ce r ta in types of such transfers are f ree ly perm i t ted by open general licenses. Cer ta in tax incentives for inwa rd direct invest- m e nt are provided by the Pioneer Industries Encou ragement Act, 1969 to m a n u f a c t u r i ng ac- t iv i t ies approved by a Pioneer Indus tr ies Board. Changes during 1969 April 23. Pioneer Indus tr ies Encouragement legislation was enacted, retroactive to August 1, 1968. September. The Commemorative Coinage Act of 1969 prov ided for the issue of 3,000 sets of five gold coins. The coins, which would be legal tende r, were to be denom ina ted in malotis, one ma lo ti be ing equ iva lent to one rand. The issue wou ld be made ear ly in 1970 and a limited n um b er of sets would be sold to Lesotho resi- dents by the Treasury. 306 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Liberian Dollar or $1 = US$1. U.S. cur- rency is in circulation along with Liberian coin- age. Official accounts are kept in dollars and cents. There are no restrictions on foreign exchange transactions. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. imports and import Payments There is no general system of import control. A few items (e.g., arms and ammun i t ion, explo- sives, used clothing, and pharmaceuticals) require prior licenses; no imports of cement and shotgun shells are permitted at present. Also, imports of certain goods (e.g., obscene literature and narcot- ics other than for medicinal purposes) and all imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. In practice, meat is im- ported only by the Liberian Supply Corporation and petroleum and petroleum products only by the Liberian Ref in ing Company. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Export licenses are required for precious metals, precious stones, ivory, agricultural products other than rubber, and certain other items, such as arms, ammuni- tion, and explosives. Licenses are issued freely; they serve ma in ly to enforce taxation or, for agri- cu l tural products, to assure certification of quality and origin and to safeguard the monopoly of the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation. The surrender of the proceeds of exports is not requ ired, and exchange receipts are freely dispos- able. An export tax is levied on diamonds. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles There are no limitations on payments for or receipts from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. Under an Investment Incentive Code, enterprises under tak ing new investment projects may be granted five-year to ten-year tax exemptions and ta r i ff exemptions on construc- tion ma ter ia ls, raw materials, and capital goods to be used in m anu f a c tu r ing operations. Other possible benefits include tariff protection, subject to approval of the legislature. Gold Residents may freely and without license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form are subject to licenses issued by the Secre- tary of the Treasury; import licenses are issued free ly but export licenses are granted restrictively. Under the Gold Agreement of 1958, the Bank of Monrovia, acting on behalf of the Government, purchases unref ined gold from local producers at US$34.00 a troy ounce, gross weight. Af ter refin- ing abroad this gold may be sold on the free ma rket by the Government. Changes during 1969 No significant changes took place during 1969. 307 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per L ibyan Pound or <£L 1 = US$2.80. The Bank of Libya publishes daily buy ing and selling rates for 12 currencies. l It deals w i th commercial banks only in pounds sterling and U.S. dollars, at rates fixed da i ly. The Bank of Libya's rates for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1969 were <£L 0.35669 buying, and £L 0.35759 selling, per US$1; for the pound sterling the buy ing and selling rates were <£L 0.85643 and <£L 0.85857, respectively, per <£ stg. 1. The commercial banks are pe rm i t ted to buy or sell other currencies against pounds sterling and U.S. dollars through the ir fore ign correspondents or branches. The commerc ial banks' buy ing and selling rates for currenc ies o ther than s ter l ing and U.S. dollars are based on quo ta t ions in London, New York, and other centers abroad. They may not deal among themselves in fore ign currencies. Neither author- ized banks nor importers or exporters are allowed to en ter into fo rwa rd commitments in foreign currencies. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of L ibya, wh ich has delegated some of its powers to the au thor ized banks. Policy re la t ing to import and export licensing is determined by an Import and Export Advisory Council, under the chair- man sh ip of the Under-Secre tary of Economy. Import and export licenses are issued by the Min- istry of Economy; impor ts of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and cigarette paper are a gov- e rnment monopoly. Imports of unprocessed gold are confined to the Bank of Libya. Prescription of Currency The Libyan Arab Republic is a member of the Sterling Area. Settlements w i th other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency or by debiting or crediting Libyan pounds or sterling to a Scheduled Territories Account. Settlements with countries outside the Sterling Area other than Israel and Rhodesia may be made in L ibyan pounds or sterling through an External Account or in any convertible foreign currency. All settlements w i th Israel and Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts A nonresident, as defined by the Bank of Libya, who is ga in fu l ly employed in the Libyan Arab Republic and has been staying in the country for less than six years, is permitted under the existing exchange control regulations to open and ma in ta in a nonresident account in Libyan pounds w i th any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Republic. The Bank of Libya permits, in appro- pr ia te cases, a nonresident who has stayed in Libya for more than six years to continue to ma in ta in a nonresident account. Legitimate earn- ings from employers of such nonresidents can be credited to the ir nonresident accounts. Similarly, authorized banks have authority to credit interest earned on balances in these nonresident accounts. All other credits to nonresident accounts require the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. Remit- tances abroad f rom such accounts maintained by nonresident laborers and technicians can be allowed by banks up to 60 per cent of net salary each mon th; for those whose contracts specify that lodging and/or board will be made available free of charge by the employer, remittances up to 90 per cent of net salary are permitted. Banks may issue trave lers checks and foreign currency notes to nonresident laborers and technicians w i th in the limits mentioned. Funds brought into Libya by nonresident con- tractors unde r tak ing contracts in their own names are requ ired to be kept in "special resident accounts" w i th a bank in Libya. Payments received in the Libyan Arab Republic by such contractors in respect of their contracts may also be credited to these accounts. Remittances from Libya to the debit of these accounts are subject to the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. 1 Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Lebanese pounds, Nether- lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tunisian dinars, and U.S. dollars. W i th the approval of the exchange control authorities, f u n ds in blocked accounts may be used for expenditures in the Libyan Arab Repub- 308 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution lie up to <£L 500 a year to cover the cost of current visits to the Libyan Arab Republic by the owner of the funds or a close relative; for pay- ments in the Libyan Arab Republic of legal fees, taxes, etc.; for remittances to the owner of the funds in his country of permanent residence, up to <£L 1,000 in a calendar year; and for remit- tances in cases of hardship. When the funds have been in a blocked account for five years, they qua l i fy for rem i t tance in fu ll to the owner in his country of permanent residence. The blocked accounts of persons who have left the Libyan A rab Republic pe rmanen t ly are being released in install- ments; balances credited prior to March 31, 1966 have been released. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are under open general license and do not require an individual import license. There are two lists of imports subject to individ- ual licensing. One list comprises some 38 items or groups of items which require no authorization other than an import license; these goods include various foodstuffs and certain local manufactures. Goods on the other list, which contains 6 groups of items, require the approval of the competent ministry prior to the granting of an import license; the goods include drugs and medicines and edible vegetable oils. Imports of sugar, salt, tobacco, cigars, cigarettes, and cigarettte paper are subject to government monopoly. The Bank of Libya has a monopoly over the import of un- worked gold. Imports of a few goods from all countries and all imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exchange permits required for listed essential imports are readily granted by the authorized banks, provided that there is a firm contract and any necessary import license has been obtained. However, no letter of credit in respect of the import of consumer durable goods may be opened by an authorized bank without obtaining a cash margin of 25 per cent of the import price. Imports are subject to customs surcharges and additional customs surcharges totaling 15 per cent of the applicable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles The authorized banks are empowered to LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC approve allocations of travel exchange as indi- cated below. All other payments for invisibles, as well as payments in excess of the approval au thor i ty delegated to the banks, require licenses from the Bank of Libya. Applications are consid- ered on their merits. Remittances of savings by foreign nationals are allowed up to 60 per cent or 90 per cent of net wages or salaries (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). Persons leaving the country may take with them Libyan currency notes not exceeding a total of <£L 20 ( £L 10 for children under 12); these may not be spent or exchanged outside the Libyan A rab Republic, but rather are intended for immediate expenses in the Libyan Arab Republic upon re turn to the country. Residents leaving for personal travel abroad, including tourist travel, may, in addition, take out foreign exchange in the form of foreign currency notes, travelers checks, and letters of credit not exceeding a total value of <£L 300 in a calendar year as a basic travel allowance; the exchange may be obtained from any authorized bank in the Libyan Arab Repub- lic. Children under 12 years of age are allowed one ha lf of this amount. Amounts in excess of the above may be granted in special circum- stances. Pilgrims are entitled to a special quota of <£L 300 in addition to the basic travel allow- ance. For business travel, residents may take out the equivalent of <£L 500 a trip, subject to a max imum of £L 2,500 in any calendar year. All fares may be settled in Libyan pounds in the Libyan A rab Republic. Temporary residents may take out any travelers checks or foreign currency notes which they had previously brought in and declared to the customs. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are only required for commodi- ties which are not of Libyan origin. Export pro- ceeds must be received through an authorized bank w i th in six months of shipment. Exports of nonmonetary gold (other than for processing abroad) and vegetable oils are prohibited. All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers checks or foreign cur- 309 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC rency notes may be cashed only at an authorized bank or at an exchange office licensed by the Bank of Libya. Travelers en ter ing the Libyan Arab Republic may b r ing w i th them Libyan currency notes, not exceeding a total of <£L 20, and o ther currency notes, t rave le rs checks, le t ters of cred i t, bonds, coupons, securities, and other negotiable ins t ru- ments in un l im i t ed amounts. Capital Many aspects of the ac t iv i t ies of oil companies opera t ing in the L ibyan A rab Republic are gov- erned by Pe tro leum Law No. 25 of 1955, as amended. Under the provisions of the Foreign Capital Inv e s tm ent Law of Ju ly 31, 1968, foreign cap i tal inves ted in projects deemed to con t r ibu te to the economic deve lopment of the coun t ry, as well as p ro f i ts the reon, and salaries of fore ign s ta ff employed on such projects may be trans- fe r red f r e e ly to the coun t ry of or ig in. Real estate in the L ibyan A rab Republic may be sold only to Libyans, save in excep t ional c ircums tances speci- fied in a law of May 24, 1960 govern ing th is subject. The net sales proceeds a f ter tax of real estate be long ing to fo re ign na t iona ls are transfer- able, sub ject to the prior approval of the Bank of Libya. Non res ident capital that is not pe rm i t ted to be t ran s fe r red abroad is credited to blocked accounts (see section on Non res ident Accounts, above ). Res iden ts r equ i re the pr ior approval of the B ank of Libya to borrow f u n ds abroad. As a ru le, res iden ts requ i re p r ior perm iss ion to pur- chase real estate s i tua ted outside Libya or invest abroad in secu r i t ies. Residents of the Libyan A rab R epub l ic t a k i ng up p e rm an ent residence abroad are pe rm i t ted to t r an s f er up to <£L 5,000 for a f am i l y; app l i c a t ions may be s u bm i t t ed for the release of the ba lance of the ir assets over a numb er of years. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm other th an bars in the L ibyan A rab Repub l ic. The Bank of Libya has a mono- poly over the import of unwo rked gold. It sells bars to domestic goldsmiths in l im i ted quan t i t ies, to meet genu ine commercial needs, at prices announced f rom t ime to t ime; at the end of 1969 this price was <£L 568 per kilogram. Provided 310 that a license is obtained f rom the Ministry of Economy, goldsmiths may have such gold proc- essed abroad, a f ter which it mu st be reimported. Bars purchased from the Bank of Libya must be melted and processed before they can be sold to the pub l ic. Exports of unwo rked gold not for pro- cessing are not pe rm i t ted un less made by or on beha lf of the mone ta ry au tho r i t ie s. Unwo rked gold is subject to an import du ty of 15 per cent. Changes during 1969 August 31. The dead l ine set in the Commercial Agencies Law exp ired. All agencies in the L ibyan A r ab Repub l ic were requ i red to be 100 per cent L ibyan owned. September 1. All b ank ing activities were sus- pended. September 11. The commercial banks were reopened. All exchange con trol powers delegated to au tho r ized banks were suspended. September 13. The Bank of Libya resumed operations. Au tho r ized banks were granted au tho r i ty to make paymen ts abroad in connection w i th commercial transactions contracted before September 11, 1969, provided that payment was made to the coun try f rom which the goods were impor ted. Banks hencefor th required prior a u t h o r i z a t i on f rom the Bank of Libya, however, for all o ther paymen ts and t rans fe rs abroad except those in respect of imports of listed essen- tial goods, for which letters of credit could be opened by the bank concerned. These commodi- ties inc luded corn, semolina, whea t, rice, live- stock, m i lk, tea, coffee, olive oil, fodder, indu s t r i al raw ma ter ia ls, and fuels. To the extent that these goods had requ ired a specific license before September 1, this licensing requirement was ma in ta ined. September 29. By Decision No. 6 of Septem- ber 14, 1969 and Circular No. 21 of Septem- ber 29, 1969, banks were authorized to allow nonresident laborers and technicians to remit abroad up to 60 per cent of their net salary each mon th. There had been no l im it prior to Septem- ber 1. October 5. The n um b er of essential goods for wh ich banks m ight open letters of credit was increased. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 6. By Decision No. 14 of the same date, banks were authorized to allow mon th ly remittances of up to 90 per cent of their net salary by nonresident laborers and technicians whose contracts specifically provided that lodging and/or board would be made available by their employers free of charge and over and above their net salary. There had been no limit prior to November 1. October 15. Banks were authorized to make payments in respect of imports and related ex- penses in the same manner as permitted prior to September 1. November 13. The tobacco monopoly dele- gated to a foreign company was revoked. November 13. Foreign banks operating in the Libyan Arab Republic were required to be incor- porated under local law and to have at least 51 per cent Libyan ownership. LIBYAN ARAB REPUBLIC December 7. The suspension of the exchange control powers delegated to authorized banks was te rm ina ted, w i th certain exceptions. The power to approve transfers up to <£L 100 a person a calendar year in respect of genuine personal com- mitments abroad of a noncommercial nature was reserved to the Bank of Libya. Standard alloca- tions would be available for business travel and for education abroad, and transfers from non- resident accounts remained subject to Decrees Nos. 6 and 14. December 7. The max imum exchange allowance for business travel was set at <£L 500 a person a tr ip ( <£L 20 a d a y ), and not more than £L 2,500 a person a calendar year. Previously, the latter l im it was applicable to any six-month period. December 27. Banks were informed that resi- dents could transfer abroad <£L 750 a year for each s tudent for educational purposes ( <£ L 75 a mon th ). 311 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System No par va lue for the currency of the Malagasy Republic has been established with the Fund. The official un it of currency is the Malagasy Franc, which is equ iva lent to 0.02 French franc, giving the relationship FMG 277.710 = US$1. The Malagasy Institute of Issue stands ready, in transactions w i th commercial banks, to buy and sell Malagasy francs against French francs at the fixed rate of FMG 1 = F 0.02, free of com- mission. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange ma rket rates for the other currency concerned, plus or m inus a commission. The Malagasy Republic's exchange control meas- ures do not apply to ( 1 ) France and its Overseas Depar tmen ts and Territories (except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas) and Monaco; and (2) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Dahomey, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Mau r i- tan ia, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except the Malagasy Republic i tse lf, are considered for- eign countries, and in principle financial re la t ions only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Office of External Finance of the Directorate of the Treasury in the M in is try of Finance and Com- merce, wh ich also supervises borrowing abroad by residents, the issue, sale, or introduction of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic, and inward and ou tward direct inves tmen t. Most of the exchange control approval au thor i ty has been delegated to the au thor ized banks and the Postal Administration. All payments and receipts between the Malagasy Repub l ic and foreign countries are registered, for statistical purposes only, by the Malagasy In s t i tu te of Issue, through the inter- mediary of the institution executing the transfer. All exchange transactions relating to foreign 312 countries must be effected through authorized banks or the Postal Administration. Import licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau of the Directorate of Commerce in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, except those for gold, which are issued by the Malagasy Institute of Issue, which also grants export licenses for gold. Export authorizations are issued either by the Foreign Trade Bureau (and its provincial offices) or by other specified public agencies, mainly sta- bilization funds or marketing offices for agricul- tural products. Prescription of Currency The Malagasy Republic is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area; since the Malagasy Institute of Issue maintains an Operations Account with the French Treasury, settlements w i th France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Malagasy francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts Francs. in Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The cred i t ing to nonresident accounts of Mala- gasy bankno tes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. imports and import Payments All imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are subject to import licensing. For protective reasons, a few imports (ma in ly edible oils, batteries, certain types of footwear and blankets, and used ju te bags) are subject to licensing, irrespective of origin or port of shipment; the import of certain other items from all sources is prohibited (including certain ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution types of beer, new ju te bags, and new barrels) or suspended un t il fu r th er notice ( for example, cer- tain types of pape r ). All other goods that both originate in and are shipped f rom the French Franc Area, or that originate in and are shipped from EEC countries other than France, may be imported freely. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of certain wines and electric ba t ter ies are cond i t ional on purchases of domestic wine and batteries (jumelage). Imports of cement, sardines, tuna fish, and certain other fish are con- ditional on purchases of the same products f rom Senegal and imports of household soap are condi- tional on purchases of both Senegalese and Ivory Coast household soap. For restricted imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area an annual import program is established. The import program is based on the es tab l ishment of global quotas that fix the l im i ts up to wh ich specified commodities may be imported. All import transactions relating to foreign countries mu st be domiciled w i th an au thor ized bank. The import license (or import certificates for liberalized commodities) en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange, provided that the sh ipp ing documents are submitted to the authorized bank. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted free ly; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Office of Ex ternal Finance or the Malagasy Ins t i tu te of Issue. Paymen ts for invisi- bles related to trade are pe rm i t ted f ree ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted f ree ly when the basic transaction has been approved. Resident tourists traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to FMG 50,000 a person a MALAGASY REPUBLIC year; any foreign exchange in excess of FMG 5,000 remaining af ter re turn to the Mala- gasy Republic must be surrendered. There also is an exchange allocation for business travel up to the equivalent of FMG 10,000 a person a day, subject to a max imum of FMG 100,000 a person a trip, or FMG 15,000 a person a day, subject to a m ax imum of FMG 150,000, depending on the foreign countries to be visited; additional amoun ts may be requested from the Malagasy Ins t i tu te of Issue. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in the Malagasy Republic is permitted upon presentation of the app rop r ia te pay voucher, provided that the trans- fer takes place w i th in three mon ths of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a m ax imum of FMG 10,000 in Malagasy bankno tes. Travelers to France and Operations Account countries may take out any amount in Malagasy banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any r em a in ing foreign bankno tes and coins declared by them on en try, as well as foreign currency obtained by reconversion of Malagasy banknotes purchased a f ter en try, but not more than FMG 25,000 may be so reconverted. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports to all destinations of products under quota and of so-called controlled products require an ex it perm it (autorisation de sortie) issued by the appropriate commodity stabilization office; these products include coffee, van i l la, cloves, pepper, sugar, rice, and petroleum and petroleum products. An export license issued by the Foreign Trade Department is required for all commodi- ties valued at more than FMG 250,000 and originally imported from a country outside the French Franc Area. Exit permits for roasted coffee are only issued for shipment to France. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account coun t ry must be surrendered; such export proceeds no rma l ly must become due not later than 180 days a f t er arrival of the goods at their des t ina t ion. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an 313 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC authorized bank and a comm i tment to repa t r ia te the proceeds must be unde r taken. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due from res iden ts of o ther countries in respect of services, and all income or proceeds acc ru ing in those coun tr ies or f rom non- residents must be collected and su r rende red w i th in one mon th of the due date. Res ident and non res ident travelers may b r ing in any amount of Malagasy banknotes and coins and bankno tes and coins issued by the Bank of France or any bank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any am o u nt of means of payment denom ina ted in a fo re ign currency. Capital Capital movements between the Malagasy Repub l ic and France, Monaco, and o ther Opera- tions Account countries in the French Franc Area are f ree of exchange con tro l; cap i tal t rans- fers to all other coun tr ies requ i re exchange con- trol approva l, but cap i tal receipts f rom such countries are permitted f ree ly. All inw a rd and outward t rans fe rs must be no t i f ied to the Mala- gasy Ins t i tu te of Issue once a mon th to fac i l i ta te the compilation of the balance of paymen ts; for those in excess of FMG 500,000 the reason must be specified. This no t if ica t ion must be made by the financial in termed iary concerned. Special controls ( add i t ion al to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic; these con- trols relate to the transactions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. Certain fo rma l i t ies are also required for inward and outward direct investment. W i th the exception of those over for- eign securities, the control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A f a rs and the I s sa s ), Monaco, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked w t ih the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. 314 Foreign direct inves tmen ts in the Malagasy Repub l ic ,1 and Malagasy direct investments ab road ,2 m u st be declared to the Minister of F inance ( i .e ., to the Directorate of the Treasury in the M in i s t ry of Finance and Commerce) when they are be ing made, un less they take the fo rm of a cap i tal increase resu l t ing f rom re inves tment of u n d i s t r i b u t ed prof i ts. The M in is ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declaration, d u r i ng wh ich he may request the postponement of the projects subm i t ted to h im. The total or p a r t i al l i q u i d a t i on of such inve s tmen ts mu st also be dec la red. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu id a t ion of d i rect inv e s tm en t s, wh e th er these are Mala- gasy inv e s tm en ts abroad or fore ign inves tmen ts in the Ma lagasy Repub l ic, must be reported to the M in i s ter of F inance w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each ope ra t ion. Direct inves tmen ts are def ined as inve s tmen ts invo lv ing the purchase, crea t ion, or expans ion of a company or en terpr ise or involv- ing control over it. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not con- sidered as d irect inve s tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the cap i tal of a com- pany. The issuing, adve r t is ing, or offer ing for sale of foreign securities in the Malagasy Republic requ ires prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, however, are opera t ions in connection w i th ( 1) loans backed by a gua ran tee f rom the Malagasy Gov- e rnment and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, o f fe r ing, or sale in the Malagasy Repub l ic has p rev ious ly been au tho r ized. Borrowing abroad by physical or ju r id ical persons, whe ther pub l ic or pr iva te persons, whose no rmal residence or registered office is in the Ma lagasy Repub l ic, or by b ranches or subsidiaries in the Malagasy Repub l ic of ju r id i c al persons whose registered office is abroad, requ i res prior au tho r i z a t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. The fol- lowing are, however, exempt from this au thor iza- t ion: ( 1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment, 1 In c lud ing those made by companies in the Malagasy Repub l ic t h at are d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly und er fore ign con- trol and those made by branches or subs id iar ies in the Ma lagasy R e p u b l ic of foreign companies. 2 I n c l u d i ng those made th rough the in te rmed ia ry of fo re ign companies that are d i rec t ly or ind i r e c t ly con- trolled by persons in the Malagasy Repub l ic and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in the Malagasy Republic. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution which are subject to prior declaration, as ind ica ted above; (2) loans directly connected w i th the ren- dering of services abroad by the persons or firms mentioned above, or with the financing of com- mercial transac t ions either between the Malagasy Republic and coun tr ies abroad or between foreign countries, in which these persons or firms take par t; ( 3) loans contracted by registered banks or credit ins t i tu t ions with special legal status; (4) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount ou t s tand ing of these loans does not exceed FMG 50 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The amount of loans referred to under (4) that are f ree of au tho r iza t ion must be noti- fied to the M in is ter of Finance when it is more than FMG 500,000 but less than FMG 50 mil- lion. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control au thor iza t ion, and is restricted. In accordance w i th the Inves tment Code of September 1962, as amended by Law No. 65-022 of December 16, 1965, foreign or domestic enter- prises of special interest for the economy may be granted p re fe ren t ial trea tment in accordance w i th an "order of approval" (arrêté d'agrément). Such enterprises may benefit from specified advantages relating to import and export duties, income taxes, supplementary allocations above those allotted in the annual import program, the intro- duction of quotas for competing imports, etc. Exceptional treatment beyond the benefits pro- vided for by the Inves tment Code and other existing legislation may be granted in a found ing agreement (convention d'établissement)', such an agreement requires parliamentary approval. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in the Malagasy Repub- lic. Imports and exports of gold require prior authorization by the Malagasy Institute of Issue. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the Malagasy Institute of Issue and (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold- plated articles). Imports of gold, whether licensed or exempt from license, are subject to customs declaration. Newly mined gold must be surrendered MALAGASY REPUBLIC to the M in i s t ry of Indus t ry and Mines which, in principle, must deliver it to the Malagasy Insti- tute of Issue af ter processing. Changes during 1969 January 1. By v i r tue of Law No. 68-026 of December 17, 1968, the system of import taxa- tion was mod if ied. A single transaction tax was introduced (taxe unique sur les transactions). January 4. Notice to Importers No. 962 termi- na ted the l i n k i ng requ i rement (jumelage) for the import of w ine. January 11. New exchange allocations for tourist travel and business travel were established by Order No. 143. These allocations were as fol- lows: for tour ism, the equivalent of FMG 50,000 a person a year; and for business travel, the equ iva lent of FMG 10,000 a person a day for specified foreign countries and the equivalent of FMG 15,000 a person a day for all other foreign coun tr ies. The authorized banks were empow- ered to g rant exchange for business travel up to FMG 100,000 or FMG 150,000 a person a trip, depending on the country to be visited, and requests for add i t ional amoun ts could be sub- mitted to the Malagasy Ins t i tu te of Issue. January 11. Circular No. 340 specified fu r ther details concerning the allocation of foreign exchange for travel. If the fac i l i ty was used that allowed residents to make paymen ts abroad up to FMG 12,500 a year w i thout indicating the pur- pose, then the amount concerned was set off against the tour ist travel allowance. January 14. Circular No. 464 was issued con- cerning fo rwa rd cover for imports from foreign countries. Such cover could be obtained for only seven commodities, and not for more than one month. January 16. Circular No. 564 was issued con- cerning insurance and reinsurance transactions with foreign countries. January 28. Circular No. 946 was issued con- cerning forward cover for imports. The permitted period was increased to three months (nonrenew- ab le). January 28. Circular No. 1021 was issued con- cerning study abroad. The allocation for living 315 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAGASY REPUBLIC expenses of u nm a r r i ed nonboa rd ing s tuden ts was set at US$300 a mon th for the Un i ted States and the equ iva lent of FMG 50,000 for other coun- tries. May 14. Notice to Importers No. 966 rein- stated the l i n k i ng requ irement for impor ts of cer- ta in wines. subject to ind iv idual licensing and import quotas, irrespective of their origin. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from FMG 246.853 per US$1 to FMG 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French f ranc, CFA francs, and the Mali f ranc remained unchanged. June 17. Decree No. 69-209 of June 3 made the impor ta t ion of specified textiles and garments September 1. The importation of bread flour became a government monopoly. 316 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malawi Pound or <£M 1 = US$2.40. The Malawi pound is at par with the pound sterling. The commercial banks base their rates for other currencies on the current London market rates. On December 31, 1969, the rate for the U.S. dol- lar was US$2.415625 buying, and US$2.383125 selling, per <£M 1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of Malawi under powers delegated to it by the Minister of Finance. Much of the au tho r i ty for approving normal current payments is in tu rn delegated to commercial banks desig- nated as authorized dealers. Import policy is for- mulated by the Minister of Trade and Industry, subject to the approval of the Cabinet. The Min- ister is also responsible for the issue of import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Malawi is a member of the Sterling Area and ma in ta ins prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom.1 For prescription of currency purposes, a distinction is made between the rest of the Sterling Area (the Nonresident Scheduled A rea) and all other coun- tries except Rhodesia ( the External Account A r e a ). Settlements with residents of other coun- tries in the Sterling Area may be made in Malawi pounds through a Nonresident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Payments to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Malawi pounds to the credit of an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Malawi pounds from an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area 1 Under Malawi's exchange control regulations, all currencies other than the Malawi pound (or any other currency that may be legal tender in Malawi) are con- sidered foreign currencies. currency freely exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Malawi pounds held by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are designated Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. These accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any Sterling Area currency, with author- ized payments to Sterling Area countries by resi- dents, and with transfers from other Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted freely into other Ster- ling Area currencies, may be used to make pay- ments to residents of Malawi for any purpose, and may be transferred freely to other Nonresi- dent Scheduled Area Accounts; these accounts may also be debited for payments to the account holder while temporarily resident in Malawi. Transfers to External Accounts require specific approval. Accounts in Malawi pounds held with author- ized banks by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be cred- ited with authorized payments by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhode- sia, w i th transfers from other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area terri- tory, w i th individually approved transfers from Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresi- dents to authorized dealers. They may be debited for payments for any purpose to residents of Malawi and of any other country of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts held in Malawi or any other Sterling Area terri- tory, or to Nonresident Scheduled Area Accounts in Ma law i, and for purchases of any Sterling Area or non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds from authorized dealers; they may also be debited for withdrawals by the account holder while temporarily staying in Malawi. External Accounts—Rhodesia are accounts in Malawi pounds that are held by persons regarded 317 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI as residents of Rhodesia. They may only be cred- ited w i th ( 1 ) the proceeds from the sale of Rhodesian cu r rency to an au thor ized dealer in M a l aw i, and (2) t rans fe rs f rom ano ther Rhode- sian E x t e r n al Accoun t. The accounts may be debited w i th ( 1 ) paymen ts to residents of M a l awi for any pu rpo s e; (2) p a ym e n ts to the account holder wh i le tempo ra r i ly s tay ing in Ma law i; ( 3) t r a n s f er to ano ther Rhodesian External Account; and (4) t rans fe rs to the account holders in Rhodesia. Blocked Accounts in Ma lawi pounds held w i th au tho r ized banks by residents of any coun t ry other than Ma lawi are credited w i th n o n t r a n s f e r- able cap i tal sums in M a l awi c u r r e n cy wh ich have accrued to nonresidents. All deb i ts and c red i ts to such accounts requ i re the prior approval of the exchange control au tho r i t i e s. No rm a l ly, approval is g iven for the inv e s tm ent of ba lances of Blocked A c c o u n ts in Ma lawi s e c u r i t i e s, p rov ided t h at these are held in Ma lawi to the order of an au tho r ized dea ler. The in terest on Blocked Account ba lances is f ree ly t r an s f e r ab le to the account holder's coun t ry of residence. Imports and Import Payments The s t a tu to ry basis of the p r inc ipal impo rt re s t r ic t ions is the Control of Goods O rd inance, w h i ch au tho r izes the M i n i s t er of Trade and I n d u s t ry to r egu l a te and con trol the d i s t r i b u t i o n, d isposa l, pu rcha se, sale, impo r t, and export of any m a n u f a c t u r ed or u nm a n u f a c t u r ed commod i ty. For a n um b er of i tems ,2 impo rt licenses are requ i red regard less of the coun t ry of o r ig in. All o ther goods may be impo r ted f ree of license wh en o r ig in a t ing in the S te r l ing A rea or, if origi- n a t i ng in ce r ta in o ther coun tr ies ,3 may be 2 Ce r ta in a g r i c u l t u r al and food produc ts, new (m i l i- ta ry t y p e) and used c l o t h i n g, gold, sugar, wheat f lou r, cemen t, f e r t i l i z e r s, hoes, flick kn ive s, explosives, arms and amm u n i t i o n, game traps, mist nets, w i ld animals, l ive fish, and copy r ight articles. Licenses are also requ i red for ce r ta in commod i t ies o r ig ina t ing in Rhode- sia. •* A lge r ia, A rg en t in a, Au s t r i a, Be lg ium, Braz i l, Bu rm a, B u r u n d i, Cambod ia, Came roon, Canada, C en t r al A f r i- can R e p u b l i c, Ch ad, Ch i le, Democ ra t ic R e p u b l ic of Congo, People's R e p u b l ic of Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, D e nm a r k, Dom in i c an Repub l ic, F in l and, France, Gabon, Federal R e p u b l ic of G e rm a n y, Greece, G u i n e a, Ha i t i, Indones ia, Israe l, I t a l y, Ivo ry Coast, R e p u b l ic of Korea, L iech ten s te in, L u x em b o u r g, Ma laga sy R e p u b l i c, M a l i, M a u r i t a n i a, Monaco, Morocco, Ne ther lands, N ica ragua, 318 impo r ted under an open general license. With respect to other coun tr ies ,4 an import license is requ i red for all commodities except cer ta in items, such as pe t ro leum produc ts, exposed cinemato- g raph ic films, bona fide unsolicited g if ts not exceed ing <£M 25 in value, samples, adver t is ing m a t e r i a l s, e tc .; howeve r, licenses are requ i red for, and q u a n t i t a t i ve restrictions are applied to, only a sma ll numb er of commodities o r ig ina t ing in Czechoslovakia, Japan, or Rhodesia. Paymen ts for impor ts f rom all coun tr ies must be made w i t h in six months a f ter the date of impo r t. Foreign exchange for these paymen ts is au toma t ica l ly granted by the authorized dealers, sub ject on ly to the presentation of relevant docu- men ts and compliance w i th import licensing r equ i r em en t s. Ind iv idu al exchange control approval is requ i red, however, for paymen ts in respect of commod i t ies or ig ina t ing in a Sterling Area coun t ry but shipped from a non-Sterling Area coun t ry. Any t ran s fer of funds in anticipa- tion of impor ts is proh ib i ted, except with the per- mission of the exchange control authorities. Advance paymen ts may, however, be made for impo r ts va lued at up to <£M 50 on production of an invoice or other evidence ind ica t ing that the seller requires payment in advance. Impo r ts f rom any Sterling Area coun t ry may be pa id for in Ma lawi currency to a local Non- res ident Scheduled Area Account, in sterling, or in any other Sterling Area currency. Imports from o ther areas, except Rhodesia, may be paid for in Ma lawi currency to a local External Accoun t, in s ter l ing to an External Account held elsewhere in the Sterling Area, or in any non- S ter l ing Area currency. Impor ts from all sources are subject to a cus- toms surcharge of 8V6 per cent of the import du ty app l icab le to the commodity concerned when imported from a Commonwealth country o ther than the United Kingdom. N ige r, No rway, Peru, Portugal, Rw and a, San Marino, Senegal, Soma l ia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Togo, T u n i s i a, T u r k e y, Un i ted A r ab Repub l ic, Un i ted States, Upper Volta, U r u g u a y, Vatican City, and Yugo- s lav ia. 4 These o ther countries are Czechoslovakia, Japan, Rhodes ia, and all coun tr ies that are not contracting par- ties to the GATT. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Proceeds from Invisibles MALAWI Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other purposes, such as travel, is provided by the au thor ized dealers w i thout prior reference to the exchange control. The basic exchange allowance for travel is <£M 10 a day for an adu l t, with a max imum of «£M 300 a calendar year, and <£M 5 a day for each child under 18 years of age, with a m a x im um of <£ M 150 a calendar year for children between 10 and 18, and of <£M 100 a year for ch i ld ren under 10. The allowance is not cumu la t ive but may be increased by up to 50 per cent if the traveler has not applied for a travel allowance du r ing the preceding three years. These allocations are subject to a combined m a x im um of <£M 1,000 a year for a f am i ly traveling together. Exchange is prov ided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, med ical trea tmen t, f am i ly rem i t tances, and busi- ness t rave l. Applications for amoun ts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Foreign nationals employed in Malawi on contracts or holding a temporary employment permit are allowed to rem it up to two th i rds of their cu r rent net earn- ings to their coun try of normal residence. Travelers may take out up to <£ M 10 in Malawi currency and the equ iva lent of <£M 10 in foreign currency in addition to the ir basic travel allowance. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of goods of any description that exceed <£M 50 in va lue are prohibited, unless the Controller of Customs and Excise is satisfied that payment has been made or will be made in an appropriate manner to a resident of Malawi not la ter than six months a f ter the date of expor- tation. Certain commodities5 are subject to export licensing, ma in ly to ensure the adequacy of their domestic supplies. Export proceeds in foreign currency must be sold to an authorized dealer. 5 Imp lemen ts of war, petroleum products, nickel, atomic energy materials, tea, ana certain agricultural and animal products. Receipts f rom invisibles in any foreign cur- rency must be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. There is no l im i ta t ion on the amount of foreign cu r rency notes and coins that may be impor ted by travelers, but not more than <£M 10 in Ma lawi cu r rency notes and coins may be impo r ted. The impo rt of currency notes and coins of the fo rmer Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasa- land is prohibited. Capital Inwa rd transfers of capital are not restricted, w i th the exception that the tak ing up of loans from abroad by residents requires prior exchange control approval. This is normally granted, pro- v ided th at the terms of repayment are realistic. Ou twa rd t rans fe rs of capital, inc lud ing those to o ther parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonres iden ts are permitted to repatriate their inv e s tm en ts when they have satisfied the authori- ties that the original investment was made with f u n ds brought in to the country f rom sources out- side Ma law i; there are no restrictions on the t rans fer abroad of dividends and profits of for- eign-owned companies, provided that no recourse is being made to local borrowing. In general, residents are not permitted to trans- fer capital abroad and, w i th certain exceptions, are requ i red to offer for sale to an authorized dealer any foreign exchange which accrues to them. However, residents may purchase foreign securities (except bearer securities) quoted on recognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are regis- tered in the names of specified nominees and held to the order of an authorized dealer, and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securi- ties the sales proceeds are permitted to be repa- triated by the exchange control authorities of the country concerned. All income earned from these inves tmen ts must be repatriated, and the corre- sponding fore ign exchange must be sold to an authorized dealer. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: ( 1 ) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed exchange up to £M 7,500, whether single or ma r r ied. (2) Married persons who have not reached the age of 50 are allowed <£M 3,000 319 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAWI on departure, together with <£M 250 for each child, up to a max imum of <£M 4,000 for a f am i ly. (3) Unmarried persons who have not reached 50 years of age are allowed <£M 1,500 on departure. (4) The balance of the emigrant's f u n ds is blocked, but he is permitted to transfer to his new country of residence a sum equal to the original emigration allowance on each anni- versary of his departure from Malawi, up to a m a x im um of <£M 4,000. Applications for emi- grant's allowances, whether initial or subsequent, must be submitted to the exchange control au tho r i t ies for approval. Residents require prior approval to lend to nonresidents or to resident firms controlled directly or indirectly from outside Malawi. Approval to lend to nonresident-controlled firms may be w i thhe ld if it is felt that excessive recourse is being had to local borrowing, and that the firms have brought in insu f f ic ient working capital from abroad. Gold Residents of Ma lawi may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Malawi for num isma t ic pur- poses. W i th this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Indus t ry in consultation with the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1969 May 16. The amount of Malawi currency that travelers could take out or bring in was reduced from <£M 20 to £M 10 a person a trip. July 1. All firms and individuals proposing to import or export goods were required to be regis- tered under the Control of Goods Act. July 8. A trade agreement signed with Swazi- land provided w i th immediate effect for duty-free en try or entry at preferential tar iff rates into Swa- z i land for commodities of Malawi origin, and for preferen t ial ( in te rmed ia te) tariff rates for exports of Swazi origin to Malawi. Both countries reserved the right to impose quantitative import restrictions on certain goods. 320 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Malaysian Dollar or M$3.06122 = US$1. The Central Bank of Malaysia stands ready to buy Ma lays ian currency against sterling at M$7.4040 per <£ stg. 1 and to sell Malaysian currency for sterling at M$7.2900 per <£ stg. 1; no commission is charged. The in terven t ion rates are fixed only against sterling. The Central Bank normally deals at the exchange limits and deal- ings by the Bank are made only in the spot ma rke t. The Bank has not established official buy ing and selling rates for other currencies. The commercial banks quote mu tua l ly agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for specified currencies.1 The rates are cal- culated on the basis of quotations for Malaysian dollars against sterling in the Kua la Lumpur exchange ma rket and the quotations for other currencies against sterling in the London exchange marke t. On December 31, 1969, the ma rket rate for the U.S. dollar was M$3.07 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Malaysian, Singapore, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and w i thout charge, at the Central Bank and the commercial banks. (The old Malayan dollar, which ceased to be legal tender with effect from Janua ry 16, 1969, is valued at M$0.8571). Malaysia accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment as from November 11, 1968. Administration of Control The Central Bank of Malaysia administers exchange control on behalf of the Malaysian Government throughout Malaysia. Much of the authority for approving normal current payments is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The authority for import control rests with the Central Government. The day-to- 1 These specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Japa- nese yen, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. day adm in is t ra t ion of import control throughout Malaysia is carried out jo in t ly by the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try and the Royal Customs and Excise.2 Prescription of Currency Ma lays ia is a member of the Sterling Area and generally follows the prescription of currency a r rangemen ts and the sterling payments system of the Un i ted Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in a Ster- ling Area currency. Paymen ts to countries outside the S ter l ing Area, other than Rhodesia, may be made either in Ma lays ian dollars or another cur- rency of the Sterling Area through an External Accoun t, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be obtained either in Malaysian dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited w i th the proceeds of any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds sold to a bank in Malaysia, with transfers of Malay- sian dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and w i th funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhodesian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts require prior approval. 2 There are at present five separate customs areas: West Malaysia, exc lud ing Penang; Sabah, excluding Labuan; Sarawak; Penang; and Labuan. Labuan and Penang are free ports. 321 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA Imports and Import Payments Ta r i f fs and impo rt controls of the various parts of Malaysia have not yet been un i f ied, although steps toward un i f i c a t ion are being taken. Some i n t e r n al t a r i f fs and o ther t rade res tr ic t ions still ex ist be tween pa r ts of Ma lays ia. Most impor ts are pe rm i t ted f ree ly under open general licenses. Depend ing on the n a t u re and o r ig in of the goods, specific licenses are requ i red for ce r ta in imports for h e a l t h, secu r i ty, or moral reasons; var ious cond i t ions mu st be sa t isf ied be fo re licenses for such goods are issued. C e r t a in o ther impo r ts are sub ject to q u a n t i t a t i ve res t r ic t ions pend ing the in t rodu c t ion of pro tec t ive cus toms du t i es to pro- tect local indu s t r i e s. Impo r ts in to all pa r ts of Ma lay s ia of all com- mod i t ies f r om South A f r i c a, Rhodesia, or any t e r r i to ry adm in i s t e r ed by Rhodes ia, and of partic- u l ar categories of tex t i les, househo ld ar t ic les, steel goods, q u i c k l im e, and bicycles f rom m a i n l a nd Ch ina, a re p roh ib i t ed. A ll impo r ts in to West Ma lays ia, Sabah, and Sarawak of goods originat- ing in Eas tern Ge rmany, H u n g a r y, No r th Korea, or Poland requ i re a specific license. In respect of West M a l ay s i a, impo r ts of rice f rom any coun t ry are cond i t ion al on the impo r ter pu rcha s ing one ton of rice f rom the gove rnment reserve stockpile for every one and a ha lf tons im p o r t e d ;3 impor ts of wh e at flour and rice b ran f rom all sources and impo r ts of sugar ' are subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve re s t r ic t ions for pro tec t ive reasons; those of wheat f lour are p roh ib i ted in p r in c ip l e, and since Augu st 1, 1966 no impo rt licenses have been issued. Whe re necessary, permission is given free ly for p a ym en ts in fo re ign cu r rency for a ll pe rm i t ted impo r t s. P aym en ts in fore ign cu r rency a re perm i t- ted f r e e ly for goods on open general license; for impo r ts t h at r equ i re a special license, exchange con trol app roval is fo r thcom ing when the license has been granted. V i r t u a l ly a ll impo r ts in to Ma lays ia ( ex c lud ing Penang and L a b u a n) are sub ject to a su r t ax of 2 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue, unless they are :< This ra t io is var ied f rom t ime to t ime d ep end ing on the t u r n o v er of o f f i c i al stocks. 4 I n c l u d i ng j agg e ry, rock suga r, and molasses under t a r i ff codes 061 101, 061 109, and 061 500. 322 in tended for re-export or for export a f ter process- ing. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to residents of the Ster- l ing Area may be made f ree ly. Paymen ts related to commerc ial t ransac t ions and personal pay- men ts to o ther coun t r ies, except Rhodesia, are au tho r i z ed. There are no restrictions on the am o u nt of fo re ign exchange made available for t ravel abroad. Special a r rangemen ts pe rm it f am i ly r em i t t an c es to m a in l and Ch ina to be made th rough licensed r em i t t an ce shops up to M$45 f rom a f am i ly in any one mon th, but add i t ional am o u n ts may be t ran s fe r red through the bank ing system. R em i t t an c es to nonres iden ts of dividends, in teres t, and prof i ts on all bona fide inves tmen ts are sub ject to exchange control approval, which is given f ree ly. Unless special permission is ob ta ined, not more than M$500 in Malaysian notes and the equ iv a l ent of M$ 1,000 in foreign notes may be t a k en out of Ma lays ia by travelers; the re is, however, no res tr ic t ion on the amount of Ma lay s ian notes that may be taken out of Malay- sia by t rave le rs going d irect to B runei or Singa- pore. Non re s ident trave lers are allowed to take out fo re ign cu r rency notes up to the amount dec lared upon en t ry. Exports and Export Proceeds The th ree te r r i to r ies of Malaysia at present m a i n t a in separate export control systems, a l though the Federal Gove rnment re ta ins the r ight to legislate in respect of exports f rom any M a l ay s i an te r r i to ry. A ll expor ts f rom Malaysia to coun t r i es ou ts ide the S ter l ing Area have to be au tho r i z ed by a b ank in Ma lays ia and the foreign exchange proceeds sold to a bank in Malaysia. M a l a y s i an exchange control fo rms have to be comp le ted and au tho r ized by banks in Malaysia for all such exports va lued at M$5,000 or more. This r equ i r em ent serves to ensure that the pro- ceeds are obtained in accordance with the pre- scr ip t ion of currency regu la t ions and are sold to an au tho r ized bank in Malaysia. Exports of r u b b er f rom West Malaysia require a certificate issued by the Malaysian Rubber Exchange. Exports of rubber and tin to South A f r ica and any te r r i to ry adm in is te red by South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports of tin to other destinations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution are subject to a quota.5 All exports to Rhodesia and any terr i tory administered by Rhodesia are also prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts f rom invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Singapore may bring in any amount in Malaysian notes, and other travelers may br ing in M$500; otherwise, permission is requ ired for the import of Malay- sian notes. Permission is also required for the import of currency notes of Ind ia, Indonesia, and Rhodesia.6 No l im i ta t ions are imposed on the import of currency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and f rom other countries in the Sterling Area. Inward and ou twa rd capital transfers between Malaysia and countries outside the Sterling Area requ ire exchange control approval; such approval is free ly gran ted for inward t rans fe rs, but the subsequent u t i l iza t ion of nonresident-owned funds in Malaysia in most cases is subject to individual exchange control approval. Inves tment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is f ree ly perm i t ted if made through a recognized stock exchange w i th f u n ds f rom an Ex ternal Account or t rans fe r red in a specified cu r rency; investment in stocks and bonds is subject to ind iv idual approval if it is to be made otherwise. Investments in new industrial and development projects that have been approved by the M in is t ry of Commerce and Indus t ry are not restricted. The t ran s fer to resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area of capital held or accruing in Malaysia is generally permitted but requires prior exchange control approval. Inves tmen ts by Malaysian nationals in countries outside the Sterling Area may be made 5 On J a n u a ry 1, 1970, expor ts of tin ceased to be restricted by quo ta. 6 Travelers are allowed to b r ing in Ind ian rupee notes up to Rs 270 a person and Indones ian r u p i ah notes up to Rp 3,000 a person. The import of Rhodesian pound notes is prohibited. MALAYSIA upon approval of the exchange control authori- ties; this is given only when such investments are considered to serve the economic interest of the country. Gold Residents other than authorized dealers in gold are not permitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other than gold that has been manu- fac tured into jewelry or ornaments. The manufac- tu re, import, or export of gold coins is prohib- ited, as is domestic trad ing in gold coins other than the S$150 gold coin of Singapore currency (un less these are part of ornaments, dealing in wh ich is un res t r ic ted ). Resident and nonresident travelers between Malaysia and Singapore, how- ever, may freely bring in or take out, on their person, one S$150 gold coin issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore. Gold- sm i ths are perm i t ted by the exchange control au tho r i t ies to purchase certain quantities of gold f rom an authorized dealer at local free market prices for the manu fac tu re of bona fide jewelry and o rnamen ts. Furthermore, producers of gold are perm i t ted to sell their output at local free ma rket prices to authorized dealers in gold. Imports of gold are restricted under the Customs Act, 1967, and require licenses from the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try, which may consult the exchange control authorities. Permission for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry cons t i tu t ing the personal effects of a traveler is not no rma l ly given except for imports by author- ized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of goldsmiths for manu fac tu r ing jewelry and orna- men ts and for industrial uses. The importation of gold into West Malaysia is only allowed to authorized dealers in gold, subject to an over-all quota of 40,000 ounces a quarter; a certain amount of gold (5,000 ounces a quarter for Sabah and 7,500 ounces a quarter for Sarawak) is perm i t ted to be imported into East Malaysia solely for the manu fac tu re of ornaments. In both East and West Malaysia, imports are allocated to authorized dealers in gold by means of a tender system; successful tenderers must pay a premium to the Government. Imports are subject to a 2 per cent import du ty and a 2 per cent surtax. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are 323 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALAYSIA prohibited under the Exchange Control Ordi- nance, 1953. July 31. Imports of printing inks were made subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. Changes during 1969 January 1. The Customs Duties Order, 1968 came in to force. The import t a r i ff henceforth was based on the Brussels ta r i ff nomenclature. The ta r i ff schedules set out both the common Malay- sian customs t a r i ff and the du t ies to be levied on impor ts in to West Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak, respectively. January 1. The suspension of the 2 per cent impo rt su r tax was te rm ina ted for meat, m i lk and m i lk products, wheat and wheat flour, newsprint, and certain other commodities. January 9. Imports of a lum inum sulphate, imi- ta t ion leather, PVC cloth, electric filament lamps, j u te twine, and j u te bags were made sub- ject to quota restriction. January 16. The old Ma layan dollar ceased to be legal tender. February 6. Imports of table linen, bed linen, and certain other textiles were made subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. March 13. Imports of mach inery for the cement indus try and the dairy indus try were made subject to specific licensing. March 22. A trade agreement providing for most-favored-nation trea tment was signed with Ruman ia. Payments would continue to take place in convertible currencies. The agreement came into force immed ia te ly. March 27. Imports of tractors, angles of iron or steel, steel alloy, and high-carbon steel were made subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction. June 26. Imports of power tillers were made subject to quantitative restriction. August 8. The Exchange Control (Gold Coin Exemp t ion) Order, 1969 exempted from the requ iremen ts of Sections 4, 5, and 6 of the Exchange Control Ordinance, 1953 the holding, buy ing, borrowing, selling, or lending of the S$150 gold coin issued by the Board of Commis- sioners of Currency, Singapore. August 8. The open general license for imports and the customs regulations were amended to permit the import by travelers between Malaysia and Singapore, on their person, of one S$150 gold coin of Singapore currency. September 12. Import duties were raised on a wide var ie ty of consumer goods and on certain other commodities. October 1. The amount of gold allowed to be imported by authorized dealers in gold in West Malaysia was increased from 30,000 ounces every quarter to 40,000 ounces a quarter. October 23. The Customs (Prohibition of Impor ts) Order, 1969 was issued to replace cer- tain existing regulations prohibiting or subjecting to ind iv idual license specified goods. All imports into West Malaysia, Sabah, and Sarawak of goods originating from Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, and Poland, henceforth re- quired a specific license. October 23. Restrictions on imports of alumi- num sulphate, sodium silicate, imitation leather, PVC cloth, electric filament lamps, and printing inks were l if ted. November 6. Imports of diesel engines and outboard motors were made subject to specific licensing. 324 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI Exchange Rate System No par value for the currency of the Republic of Mali has been established with the Fund. The official un it of currency is the Mali Franc, defined as a monetary unit containing 0.0014 gram of fine gold. The Mali f ranc is officially maintained at the rate of MF 1 = 0 . 01 French franc. Parity rates for the CFA f ranc and the U.S. dollar are MF 2 and MF 555.419, respectively. Purchases and sales of French francs, CFA francs, and Malagasy francs are made by the Central Bank of Mali at their respective parities. Rates for other currencies generally are based on those in the Paris exchange market. Bilateral payments arrangements with a number of countries (see section on Prescription of Currency, below) pro- vide for settlements of transactions covered by these arrangements through accounts denomi- nated either in Mali francs or in other specified currencies; rates for these specified currencies are unitary. The Development Bank of Mali is in charge of settlements covered by bilateral payments agree- ments. Mali's exchange control measures do not apply to relations with France and other Operations Account countries. Administration of Control The Minister of Planning, Finance, and Eco- nomic A f fa i rs has sole au thor i ty in exchange con- trol matters; certain exchange control powers have been delegated to authorized banks. The bilateral paymen ts agreements are operated by the Development Bank of Mali. Licenses for imports are issued by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Economic Affa irs. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of transactions covered by bilateral payments arrangements are made in currencies and through accounts established under such agreements. Bilateral accounts are maintained with Algeria, Bulgaria, mainland China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Guinea, Hungary, Morrocco, Poland, Rumania, Senegal, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Republic, North Viet-Nam, and Yugoslavia.1 Mali is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since its Central Bank main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in Mali francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Opera- tions Account country. Settlements with all other countries with which no payments agreement is in force are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts Francs. in Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are prohibited for health, safety, and similar reasons, and li- censes are not normally issued for certain other goods; these include specified textiles, soap, ciga- rettes, matches, and groundnut oil. Imports of all other goods, irrespective of origin, require indi- vidual licenses, and imports f rom foreign coun- tries must be domiciled with an authorized bank. Import licenses are of two kinds —licenses which require foreign exchange and licenses "without foreign exchange" for transactions to be financed by the importer with funds he holds abroad or receives under the EXIC procedure (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below). Imports are licensed in accordance with an annual import program drawn up by a joint 1 The payments arrangements with Algeria, Morocco, and Senegal are inoperative. 325 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI French-Malian Committee. The program consists of two pa r ts: an allocation for c lea r ing coun tr ies and one for the convertible area (de f ined as com- pr is ing all other countries, inc lud ing the French Franc A r e a ). Imports may be made e i ther by p r iv a te impor t- ers or by state enterprises, among wh ich the Société Ma l ienne de l'Impor t-Export (SOM IEX) is by far the most impo r tan t, h av ing a monopoly over the impo rt of five items .2 All impo r ts f r om and exports to countries that have p a ym e n ts agreements w i th Mali are made by SOMIEX or Unicoop. An allocation commission establishes quo tas for each pr iva te impo r ter on the basis of his t u r n- over and the number of his emp loyees. Impo rt licenses are issued to the p r iva te impo r ter up to the l im it of the quo ta accorded to h im. In add i- t ion, impor ters may impo rt any goods "w i thout foreign exchange" or und er the EX IC p rocedu re. The au tho r ized banks are pe rm i t ted to m ake fo r- eign exchange available for all licensed imports. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France and the o ther Operations Account coun t r ies in the French Franc Area are perm i t ted f r e e ly; those to o ther coun t r ies are subject to approval. Paymen ts for inv is ib les related to t rade are p e rm i t t ed f r e e ly when the basic t rade t ran sac t ion has been approved or does not requ i re a u t h o r i z a t i o n. T rans fe rs of income accru ing to non res iden ts in the form of prof i ts, d iv idends, and roya l t ies are also perm i t ted f ree ly when the basic transac t ion has been approved. For tou r ist t rave l, res iden ts t rave l ing to coun t r ies o ther than France and the other Operations Account coun t r ies of the French Franc Area may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an am o u nt equ iva lent to MF 100,000 a year for each person; any fore ign exchange r em a i n i ng a f t er re tu rn to Ma li mu st be su r rende red. For business t rave l, there is a special a l loca t ion of the equ iva lent of MF 20,000 a day, subject to a m a x im um of MF 200,000 a tr ip, for travel to 30 specified fore ign coun t r ies (MF 30,000 a day up to a total of MF 300,000 for travel to any o ther foreign c o u n t r y ). The t ran s fer of the en t i re sa la ry 2 Flour, m i l k, sa l t, sugar, and tea; trade in these com- modities is reserved for SOMIEX. 326 of a fo re igner wo rk ing in Mali is perm i t ted upon p re sen ta t ion of the app rop r ia te pay voucher, pro- v ided t h at the t r an s f er takes place w i t h in three m o n t hs of the pay period. Travelers going to for- eign coun tr ies may take out up to a m a x im um of MF 20,000 in Ma li bankno te s, French bank- notes, and b ankno t es issued by other Opera t ions Account coun t r ies (MF 5,000 for t r ips of less than 24 h o u r s ). Travelers to o ther coun t r ies may take out MF 250,000 in M a li bankno te s. Non re s ident trave lers may take out fo re ign b a n k n o t es and coins up to the amount declared by them on en t ry or up to MF 50,000 if no dec- la ra t ion was made. They may also take out MF 20,000 in Ma li b ankno t es and paymen ts i n s t r um e n ts d rawn up abroad in the ir name. Exports and Export Proceed» Expor ts to fo re ign coun t r ies mu st be dom ic i led w i th an au tho r i z ed bank, and export proceeds received in cu r renc ies o ther than those of France or ano ther Operations Account country must be su r rende red; export proceeds mu st no rma l ly be collected and repa tr ia ted w i t h in 90 days a f ter the a r r ival of the goods at the ir de s t ina t ion. Exports r equ i re i n d i v i d u al licenses in order to assure the repa t r ia t ion of export proceeds. The export of co t ton f rom i r r iga ted land, g roundnu t s, hides, sk in s, and mea t, wh ich cons t i tu te most of the controlled export t rade, is reserved for state en terpr ises, but c e r t a in m ixed enterprises may have a share allocated to them. Under the EXIC (Expo r ta t ion et Impor ta t ion Concom i tan te) procedure, exporters may re ta in 75 per cent of proceeds f rom exports except those covered by the monopoly of state t rad ing compan ies and cotton exported by the Compa- gnie Fran ça ise pour le Développement des Fibres Textiles (CFDT), for payment for the ir own impo r ts t h at are made th rough regular off ic ial channels. Balances on EXIC accounts and import r igh ts und er the EXIC procedure are not trans- ferable. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds f rom transac t ions in invisibles w i th France and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution respect of services and all income earned in those countries f rom foreign assets must be collected and surrendered. Resident and nonresident travel- ers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the Central Bank of Mali, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Capital Capital movements between Mali, France, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (in addition to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad; the Develop- ment Bank of Mali is exempt. The special control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) or to countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account. Foreigners leav ing Mali permanen t ly are per- mitted to t rans fer abroad ( 1 ) f u n ds up to a total of six months' salary, resulting from the sale of personal property that was in their possession for at least six months, and (2) savings out of the ir salary and income earned in Mali, provided that they have not taken advantage of t ran s fer privi- leges in respect of their salary. Funds specified under ( 1) and ( 2) may be transferred abroad in f ive equal annual installments. Nonresident enterprises operating in Mali are permitted to transfer abroad in ten equal install- ments funds accruing from the par t ial or total liq- u ida t ion of such enterprises. Funds mentioned in this and the preceding paragraph that are kept on special foreign accounts with the Central Bank bear 3 per cent interest a year, which is t rans fe r- able. MALI to purchase 3 per cent 20-year bonds issued by the Bank of the Republic or to make investments that are approved by the Ministry of Planning, Finance, and Economic Affa irs. Proceeds from the amo r t iza t ion of bonds as well as interest on them may be transferred abroad. Under an Investment Code of May 23, 1969 and Law No. 62 of Janua ry 15, 1962, the Gov- e rnment may grant special privileged status, pro- v id ing for transfer, tax, and other preferential treatment, to foreign investments that would be of special interest to the Malian economy and that are compatible with the goals of the Eco- nomic Plan. P re fe ren t ial inves tment treatment may permit ( 1) the t rans fer of profits du r ing a period not exceeding 15 years and the repa tr ia t ion of pro- ceeds accru ing from the liquidation of an invest- ment or (2) the transfer du r ing a period to be established in each case of agreed amounts that would include the value of investments and prof- its, the m ax imum yearly rate of which is also to be agreed. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Mali for num isma t ic purposes and for ornaments. With this exception, residents other than the mone tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe l ry require licenses issued by the Minis- try of P lann ing, Finance, and Economic A f fa i rs; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1969 Du r ing the year, SOMIEX ceased to have a monopoly over imports of empty bags, oil, soap, matches, cigarettes, cement, and specified textiles. January 1. Decree No. 99-PG-RM of Ju ly 4, 1968 came into effect. It established a simplified system of import taxa t ion comprising only cus- toms du ty, import tax, and value-added tax. Among the import taxes that were abolished was the fiscal entry du ty. All or part of certain categories of funds in Mali francs owned by nonresidents may be used January 7. The existing exchange controls in relations with foreign countries were reinforced. 327 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALI (The new regulations did not go into effect until February 6, 1969.) Order No. 69-11/MPF-AE- CAB prohibited, except with the prior approval of the Minister of Planning, Finance, and Eco- nomic A f fa i r s, all payments and transfers by resi- dents to foreign countries, or within Mali, in favor of a nonresident; all imports and exports of gold, other precious metals, precious stones, means of paymen t, and securities; and all trans- actions and transfers leading to the constitution of assets abroad by a resident, or to the holding of foreign means of payment in Mali by a resi- dent. All claims on foreign countries or nonresi- dents resulting f rom exports, earnings, or income had to be collected and, where appropriate, sur- rendered. All import and export transactions relating to foreign countries had to be domiciled with an authorized bank. The order also sub- mitted to control by the Minister of Planning, Finance, and Economic A f fa i rs all claims and lia- bilities in Mali francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Mali had vis- à-vis fore ign countries. The provisions of Order No. 240/MF-CAB of March 29, 1968 were suspended inso far as they were contrary to those of the new Order. January 7. Circular No. 3/MPF-AE-CAB listed the types of paymen ts that could be made freely, through an authorized bank, to foreign countries. Nonresident accounts in Mali could no longer be credited w i th Mali banknotes, French banknotes, or bankno tes issued by any other institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be collected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange marke t, w i th in one month of the due date. Such paymen ts could not be collected in bankno tes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Mali. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be w i th in 180 days af ter arrival of the commodi- ties. The Circular also contained def in i t ions of "fore ign coun t r i e s ," "res iden ts ," and "non- residents." The Central Bank and three other banks were appointed authorized banks. Foreign countries were defined as all countries other than France and the Operations Account countries. January 7. Circular No. 2/MPF-AE-CAB pro- vided that resident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than MF 20,000 in 328 Mali banknotes; they could alternatively take out the equivalent in foreign currency, in addition to the foreign currency allowances mentioned below. Imports by resident or nonresident travel- ers of Mali banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries would be free, as would be imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency. An exchange allocation of the equivalent of MF 50,000 a person a year was established for tourist travel by residents. For business travel, there was a special allocation of the equivalent of up to MF 20,000 a day, subject to a max imum of MF 200,000 a tr ip; w i th special authorization by the Minister, this max imum could be exceeded. Persons going to a foreign country for less than 24 hours could not take out more than MF 5,000 in Mali francs, French francs, or CFA francs. (The regulations issued on Janua ry 7 were amended in the course of the year .) January 16. The import program for 1969 was established at MF 15.7 billion, of which MF 5.6 billion was allocated to the clearing countries and MF 10.1 billion to the convertible area. February 6. Order No. 81 prohibited the import of seven types of goods, including transis- tor radios, plastic footwear, and cosmetics. May 23. A new and more liberal investment code came into force (Statute No. 29 /MGNL). July 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Ghana was terminated. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from MF 493.706 per U.S. dollar to MF 555.419 per U.S. dollar. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, CFA francs, and the Malagasy f ranc remained unchanged. October 9. Order No. 724 came into force. While abolishing the import prohibitions imposed by Order No. 81 of February 6, 1969, this Order banned certain other categories of imports, including soap, groundnut oil, cigarettes, safety matches, and quicklime. Exceptionally, licenses for these commodities could be issued when the supply position required. December 31. The system of import licensing "without foreign exchange" was abolished. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.13281 grams of fine gold per Malta Pound or <£M 1 = US$2.40. The Central Bank's basic rate for the pound sterling on December 31, 1969 was ^ lOOVs buying, and <£997/s selling, per <£M 100. Commercial bank rates are based on London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Certain capital transactions are channeled through the invest- ment currency and property currency markets in the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Treasury and the M in is try of Finance, Customs, and Port; trade controls are administered by the Director of Trade in the Ministry of Trade, Indus try, and Agriculture. Certain authorities to approve applications for the allocation of foreign exchange have been delegated to the authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Malta is a member of the Sterling Area,1 and settlements between residents of Malta and resi- dents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments to other countries may be made by crediting sterling or Malta pounds to an External Account or in any non- Sterling Area currency; the proceeds of exports to such countries may be received in sterling or Malta pounds from an External Account or in any foreign currency. Nonresident Accounts No distinction is made between the accounts of residents of Malta and those of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (except Hong Kong), and the funds on all such accounts are freely transferable within the Sterling Area. Residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may main- tain with authorized banks nonresident accounts 1 Malta's exchange control def in i t ion of the Sterling Area ( the Scheduled Territories) includes Rhodesia by general definition. in Malta pounds, designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited freely with authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, w i th transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or non-Sterling Area currency (including bank- notes), and with Malta or other Sterling Area banknotes mailed from outside the Sterling Area. Ex ternal Accounts may be debited freely for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area, for trans- fers to other External Accounts, for payments in cash in Malta, and for purchases of any non-Ster- ling Area currency (including banknotes) or gold. Blocked Accounts are maintained for nonresi- dents for certain funds of a capital na ture which, under the existing exchange control regulations, may not be transferred outside Malta. The princi- pal type of f u n ds that must be credited to a Blocked Account are assets of emigrants in excess of the amount of <£M 5,000 for each fam i ly that may be transferred to the new coun- try of residence; the remaining funds are released four years af ter the date of departure. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain commodities manufactured in Malta are prohibited. All imports from A lban ia, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam, are subject to specific licensing, as are imports of 71 items from any country of origin. Imports that are not prohibited and do not require a specific license may be freely imported under open gen- eral license. Payments for all authorized imports may be made freely, provided that the prescrip- tion of currency regulations are complied with. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. All payments to countries outside the Sterling Area require the approval of the exchange control authorities; the approval authority has been dele- gated to authorized banks for certain types of payment. There is a standard exchange allocation 329 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MALTA for tour ist travel outside the Sterling Area of the equ iva lent of <£M 250 a person a year plus on application <£M 250 a person a t r ip; a business t ravel allowance of <£M 250 or <£M 20 a day ( for up to 30 days a t r i p ), whichever is the larger; and an allowance for educational expenses ou ts ide the Sterling Area of <£M 450 a person for an academic year for pr imary and secondary schools and <£M 700 a person for each aca- demic year for universities —each may be com- bined w i th a supp lemen ta ry board ing or accom- modation allowance of the e q u i v a l e nt of <£M 400 for an academ ic year .- App l ica t ions for a l lowances in excess of these amoun ts are approved by the Treasury if the la t ter is sa t isf ied th at there is no illicit cap i tal ou t f low invo lved. Profits, d iv idends, and in te rest for approved fore ign inve s tmen ts may be t ran s fe r red a f t er payment of any charges and taxes due. L i fe in su r an ce may not be contracted w i th in su re rs res ident in non-S ter l ing Area coun- tries. Ma in tenance r em i t t an c es to benef ic iar ies out- side the S ter l ing A rea are allowed on app l ica t ion accompanied by do cum en t a ry evidence of hard- ship. Travelers may export Ma l ta and s te r l ing bankno tes up to an aggregate of £ M 25 for each person. Exports of o ther currenc ies may be made by res ident t rave le rs up to <£M 250 for each person and by non r e s id ent t rave le rs up to < £M 100 for each person or up to the amount b rought in, whichever is h igher. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of works of art and strategic war ma te r ial are proh ib i ted and, w i th the exception of 54 items that may be exported freely, all other exports are sub ject to specific licensing. The pro- ceeds of exports received in non -S te r l ing Area currenc ies are subject to su r render w i t h in six mon ths of sh ipmen t. There are no surrender r equ i r em en ts for proceeds received in Sterling Area currencies. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in non-Sterling Area currencies mu st be offered for sale to an author- ized b ank; receipts in S ter l ing Area currencies need not be surrendered. Travelers may bring in any amount in Malta and other currency notes. Capital No control is exercised over capital receipts from or paymen ts to other Sterling Area coun- t r ies; however, the Minister of Finance, Customs, and Port has the power to proh ib it any capital t ran sac t ions invo lv ing the exchange of Maltese cu r rency aga inst the currency of ano ther Sterling Area coun t ry, or vice versa, wh ich he is satisfied are to the de t r iment of Ma l ta. Receipts in non- S te r l ing Area currenc ies must be offered for sale to an au tho r ized bank, and paymen ts of a capital na tu re in those currencies require prior ap- proval. App l ica t ions for direct inves tment out- side the Sterling Area by residents of Malta and for d i rect inve s tment in Malta by nonresidents of the S te r l ing Area are considered on the ir merits. The pu rchase of real estate in Malta by non-Ster- l ing Area residents through a resident procurator requ i res exchange control approval but is nor- ma l ly not restricted. Purchases of foreign cur- rency secur i t ies requ i re prior permission from the au tho r i t i e s. Purchases of non-Sterling Area secur- i t ies mu st be f inanced w i th inves tment currency acqu ired in the London marke t. Purchases of personal real estate s i tua ted outside the Sterling Area must be financed w i th property currency acqu i red in the London ma rket and require prior exchange control approval. Non-Sterling Area na t iona ls who repa tr ia te or take up residence outside the Sterling Area nor- ma l ly are allowed to t ran s fer all their sterling assets to the ir coun t ry; in certain circumstances, however, res tr ic t ions may be placed on sterling assets acquired, other than by way of income or cap i tal apprec ia t ion, wh i le the person has been resident in Malta. Maltese who emigrate to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area may transfer abroad up to <£M 5,000 for each fam i ly; any excess amount is deposited in a Blocked Account. Gold 2 For purposes of exchange allocations for travel and s tudy purposes, res iden ts are def ined as physical persons who are at the t ime l i v i ng in Ma l ta in the no rmal course and e i ther have so lived for at least three years or in tend to con t inue so l iv ing for at least three years. Residents other than authorized banks and reg- istered jewelers are not allowed to hold or acqu ire gold in any form other than coins or jew- elry, at home or abroad. Residents may freely 330 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution purchase, sell, and hold any gold coins minted in or before 1837, but Treasury permission is required for the purchase, sale, or continued holding (except by those who held not more than four post-1837 coins on December 23, 1966) of any gold coins minted after 1837. Authorized dealers in gold are permitted to import gold coins for num isma t ic purposes from Sterling Area countries and v ir tua l ly any other country. A spe- cific import license is required for imports of gold coins, gold bullion, and manu fac tu red or semi- manu fac tu red articles of gold; imports of filigree work of gold or silver are prohibited. Authorized banks are permitted to import gold (bullion and coins) only for the purpose of disposing of it to jewelers and other industrial users, within an annual quota that is divided among industrial users. The export of gold by residents other than the monetary authorities requires the permission of the exchange control authorities; such permis- sion is not normally granted, and the export of gold bullion is prohibited. Gold bullion and gold coins are free of import du ty. MALTA Changes during 1969 January. The Government made funds avail- able to Maltese exporters wishing to assist U.K. importers in financing advance import deposits in respect of Maltese goods. January 7. Minor changes were announced in the limits up to which banks are authorized to approve certain paymen ts to nonresidents w i thout reference to the Treasury. May 20. New import regulations involving only minor modifications were issued. Grey cotton cloth was transferred to the prohibited import list. May 20. Imports from Japan were placed on open general license. June 27. An initial par value for the Malta pound of <£M 1 = US$2.40 was agreed with the In terna t ional Monetary Fund. August 19. Authorized banks were no longer perm i t ted to g rant sterling usance credit to non- residents of the Sterling Area to finance trade between countries outside the Sterling Area. 331 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA 1 Exchange System No par va lue for the currency of M au r i t an ia has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of currency is the CFA Franc, which is off ic ia l ly ma in ta ined at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, g iv ing the re la t ionsh ip CFAF 277.710 = US$1 .2 Exchange t ransac t ions in French f r an cs between the B anque Cen t ra le des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial b anks in M au r i t an ia take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02. Exchange rates for other currenc ies are based on the fixed rate for the French f r anc and the Paris exchange ma rket rate for the currency concerned, and inc lude a commission. The negotiation in Mau r i tan ia of the currenc ies of Israel, Por tuga l, and South Afr ica is prohibited. Mau r i tan ia 's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West A f r ican Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r ican Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and M a l i ). Hence, all payments to these countries may be made free ly. All other countries, except Mau r i tan ia i tse lf, are considered foreign coun- tries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign coun tr ies are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, how- ever, the countries listed above are also consid- ered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- ter of Finance, who also supervises borrowing 1 In view of changes that took place early in 1970 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), this survey presents the position on March 5, 1970. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 332 abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Mau r i tan ia, inward direct investment and all ou tward investment, and the solicitation of f u n ds in Maur i tan ia for place- ment in foreign countries. Most of the approval au tho r i ty in respect of exchange control has been delegated to the BCEAO and to authorized inter- mediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, e i ther direct or through the in termed iary of the banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, any informa t ion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions re la t ing to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Depart- ment in the M in is t ry of Commerce, which also issues import certificates for liberalized com- modities and export certificates. For statistical purposes, the BCEAO stamps its visa on all import and export licenses. The Na t ional Import and Export Corporation ( S oN iME x) has a monopoly over imports of sugar, tea, rice, and certain textiles. Prescription of Currency Mau r i tan ia is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France ( inc lud ing its Overseas Departments and Territo- ries, except that of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the cur- rencies of those countries —provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French f rancs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. All settlements with Israel, Portugal, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and Import Payments Imports of Israeli, Portuguese, and South Afr i- can origin and/or provenance are prohibited. The import of a few goods is prohibited from any source for reasons of health or public policy. With these exceptions, imports from countries in the French Franc Area and from EEC countries other than France are free of license and quan t i- tative restrictions. Most imports from other coun- tries are admitted in accordance w i th an annual import program, determined each year by a joint French-Mauritanian Committee. Under this pro- gram, global quotas are established for imports from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The quotas fix the limits up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodi- ties to licensed traders and to industrial or agri- cultural producers. There are three liberalization lists, applicable respectively to the fo rmer OEEC area, to the United States and Canada, and to all countries outside the French Franc Area. For goods admitted without quantitative restriction, certificates of importation are issued. The National Import and Export Corporation (SoN iMEx) has a monopoly over the import of sugar, rice, green tea, percales, and Guinea cloth. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 20,000. The import license or import certificate entitles the importer to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Advance payments for imports require prior approval by the BCEAO. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, and South Africa are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the Minister of Finance, who has dele- gated his approval authority to the BCEAO and, MAURITANIA for certain specified payments and subject to con- ditions laid down in circulars, authorized inter- mediaries. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade trans- action has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries may obtain an exchange alloca- tion of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person (CFAF 25,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 remaining af ter re turn to Mau r i tan ia must be surrendered. For business trave l, an exceptional additional allocation may be granted only with special authorization by the Minister of Finance. The transfer of the entire salary of a foreigner working in Maur i tan ia is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if going to a country that is not a member of the West Afr ican Monetary Union, the amount taken out must be declared to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Resident travelers must have their purchases and sales of foreign currency marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 10,000 in banknotes of the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any institute of issue that maintains an Operations Account at the French Treasury; up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000 in foreign banknotes; and any amount of travelers checks and letters of credit issued in their name in a foreign country. They may also take out, subject to the production of documentary evidence, any amount in foreign means of payment that they acquired in Mauri- tania to the debit of a foreign account in francs or by conversion of other foreign means of pay- ment, and any amount of foreign banknotes 333 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA declared upon en t ry or acquired in exchange for other means of payment in M a u r i t a n i a. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, and South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Export transactions to all foreign coun t r ies must be dom ic i led w i th an authorized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 50,000. Export licenses are requ i red only for m inera ls and frozen fish, bo th for sales to French Franc Area coun tr ies and o ther coun- tries. Exports to coun tr ies ou ts ide the French Franc Area r equ i re an export ce r t i f ica te. Export proceeds received in currenc ies other t h an those of France or another Operations Account coun t ry mu st be surrendered. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from t ran sac t ions in invisibles w i th France, Monaco, and o ther Opera t ions Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in the French Franc Area may be earned in those coun tr ies f rom fore ign assets mu st be collected and surrendered. Resident and non res ident t rave le rs may b r ing in any am o u nt of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the B ank of France, or a b ank of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Opera t ions Account w i th the French T reasu ry, as well as any am o u nt of fore ign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of coun t r ies ou t s ide the French F ranc Area, but res iden ts mu st w i t h in eight days of re-en try su r r end er any fo re ign cu r- rency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Transfers of cap i tal between M a u r i t a n ia and Israel, Portugal, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Cap i tal movemen ts between M a u r i t a n ia and France, Monaco, and o ther Opera t ions Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts f rom such coun- tries are perm i t ted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be app l icab le) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward direct inves tment and all outward inves tmen t, over 334 the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of for- eign securities in M au r i t an i a, and over the solicita- tion of f u n ds in M au r i t an ia for placement in for- eign coun t r ies; these controls relate to the transac t ions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. W i th the excep t ion of those over the sale or in t rodu c t ion of foreign securities in Mau r i tan ia and the so l ic i t ing of f u n ds in M a u r i t a n i a, the con- trol measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Territories (except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas ), Monaco, the other member coun tr ies of the West A f r i c an Monetary Un ion, and those other coun t r ies whose b ank of issue is l inked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account. All inve s tment abroad by residents of Mauri- t an ia requ i res pr ior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of F inance. Foreign direct inves tmen ts in M a u r i t a n ia 3 and M au r i t an i an direct inves tmen ts abroad,4 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the dec la ra t ion du r ing wh ich he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The f u ll or pa r t ial l iqu ida t ion of inward or out- ward inve s tment also requ i res dec lara t ion. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whether these are M a u r i t a n i an inves tmen ts abroad or fore ign inves tmen ts in Mau r i tan ia, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days fo l low ing each opera t ion. Direct invest- men ts are def ined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issu ing, adver t is ing, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in M a u r i t a n ia requires prior au thor iza t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt f rom au tho r i z a t ion, however, are operations in connec t ion w i th ( 1 ) loans backed by a gua ran tee 3 I n c l u d i ng those made by compan ies in M a u r i t a n ia th at are d i rec t ly or ind i r e c t ly u n d er foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in M au r i t an ia of fo re ign companies. 4 I n c l u d i ng those made th rough the in t e rm ed i a ry of fo re ign compan ies that are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly con- t ro l led by persons in M a u r i t a n ia and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies abroad of companies in Mauri- tania. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from the Mau r i tan ian Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing or offer- ing for sale in Mau r i tan ia has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from th is au tho r iza t ion: ( 1) loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, which are subject to prior dec- laration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by indus t r ial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Mau r i tan ia, or by in terna t ional t rad ing houses to finance in terna t ional merchan t- ing transac t ions; (3) loans contracted by author- ized banks; (4) loans other than those men t ioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, inc lud ing the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 50 million for any one bor- rower and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal ma rket rate. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a direct investment requires the special au thor iza t ion of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control au tho r iza t ion. The Investment Code (Law 61.122) enacted on June 26, 1961 and amended by Law 67.168 on Ju ly 17, 1967 provides for two k inds of pref- erential t rea tment for the es tab l ishment of speci- fied companies in M au r i t an i a: a priority regime and a long-term fiscal s tab i l i ty regime. Under the first regime, the proposed inves tment must amount to at least CFAF 75 m i l l ion, to be made within a period of up to 2 years, and must pro- vide permanent employment for at least 20 Maur i tan ian nationals. The benefits accorded under this regime include exemptions for a speci- fied number of years from duties on the import of certain materials as well as from taxes on speci- fied income. Under the second regime, certain companies considered to be of exceptional impor- tance to the development of the coun t ry and mak ing a m i n im um investment of CFAF 1 billion in less than 5 years are accorded special benefits, which consist mainly of the stabilization of some or all taxes for a period of up to 25 years. MAURITANIA Gold Residents are f ree to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Mauritania. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country requ i re prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from this requirement are (1) impor ts and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO, (2) imports and exports of manu fac- tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated ar t ic les), and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold arti- cles up to a max imum weight to be determined by the Minister. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1969 January 9. Circular No. 1 /69 specified the con- ditions under which authorized banks could with- out special authorization make remittances to foreign countries for study purposes. The basic mon th ly allowances for nonboard ing students were US$300 for bachelors and US$500 for mar- ried s tuden ts in the United States and the equiva- lent of CFAF 50,000 or of CFAF 100,000 for other foreign countries. January 31. The Minister of Finance delegated to the local Director of the BCEAO the supervi- sion over transactions in foreign exchange by banks in Mau r i tan ia. February 8. The BCEAO, by Instruction No. 1 to Banks, requested the banks to provide mon th ly da ta on their foreign position. For this purpose, all countries other than Mau r i tan ia were to be considered foreign countries. February 13. Order No. 103/MF introduced an exchange allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year for travel by resi- den ts to foreign countries (CFAF 25,000 for children under t e n ). For business travel, alloca- tions of an amount higher than the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 could be granted by exceptional au tho r iza t ion of the Minister of Finance. Resi- dent travelers could in addition take out up to CFAF 10,000 in banknotes issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, and the institutes of issue of other Operations Account countries. Resident travelers were required to obtain a per- sonal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) 335 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA in which all purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be marked. February 21. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 2 to Banks, which required the authorized banks to subm it monthly data concerning their forward purchases and sales of foreign currencies. February 25. A Notice to Authorized Interme- diaries established that the general authorization for the t rans fer of salaries and wages was appli- cable to foreign workers linked to an employer by a labor contract. The transferable amount was that effec t ive ly received by the worker. Transfer had to take place w i th in three months af ter the relevant pay period. February 25. Circular No. 4/69 stipulated that residents could purchase foreign exchange for- ward only for imports of specified commodities, and for a nonrenewab le period not exceeding one month or three months, depending on the com- modity. March 27. The BCEAO issued Ins truc t ion No. 3 to Banks concerning the control over the ir external claims and liabilities. April 15. Circular No. 5/MF was issued con- cerning expenses and receipts of foreign ships in Mau r i tan ia and of national ships abroad. Special accounts for these purposes were introduced (Comptes d'escale). April 15. Circular No. 6/MF was issued con- cerning foreign accounts in francs and foreign dossiers for securities. April 19. Order No. 265/MF was issued con- cerning exports of means of payment by nonresi- dent travelers. April 21. Circular No. 7 was issued concerning the issuance of travel exchange booklets. April 30. Decree No. 69-185 appointed the Director of Customs a member of the Balance of Payments Committee. June 16. The BCEAO issued Ins truc t ion No. 4 to Banks concerning the control over the ir ex- ternal claims and liabilities. July 3. Circular No. 8 was issued concerning suspense accounts and suspense dossiers for non- residents. 336 July 3. Circular No. 9 was issued concerning the opening of foreign accounts and foreign securities dossiers for persons becoming non- residents af ter having been residents. July 11. Circular No. 10 amended Circular No. 5. July 18. Circular No. 12 was issued concerning current payments to foreign countries. It summa- rized those that could, under delegated authority, be made by authorized banks. July 18. Circular No. 13 was issued concerning family remittances to foreign countries. The amount up to which the approval authority was delegated to authorized banks was set at CFAF 20,000 a month for each applicant. July 18. Circular No. 14 was issued concerning insurance and reinsurance. July 18. Circular No. 15 was issued concerning transfers of salaries to government officials sta- tioned abroad and to personnel abroad for cul- tural or technical cooperation purposes. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, the Mala- gasy f ranc, and the Mali franc remained unchanged. August 13. Circular No. 16 amended Circulars Nos. 5 and 10. August 26. Circular No. 17 was issued con- cerning the reporting requirements for authorized banks w i th respect to receipts of exchange from foreign countries and debits to Foreign Accounts in Francs. November 21. Decree No. 69-383 (corrected on J anu a ry 22, 1970) was issued concerning cer- ta in inves tment and borrowing transactions with foreign countries. It modified the capital controls introduced by Decree No. 67-129 of June 30, 1967; Articles 3 to 14 of that Decree were revoked. For purposes of investment and borrow- ing transactions, foreign countries continued to be defined as in Order No. 735 of December 24, 1968, i.e., as countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All paymen ts received from foreign countries by an authorized bank for the account of a resident ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution had to be declared to the Minister. All paymen ts and receipts re la t ing to the transactions men- tioned below had to be channeled th rough authorized banks. Hencefor th all inves tmen ts made abroad by residents required the prior authorization of the Minister; previously, direct investments required only prior declaration to the Minister, a f ter which the la t ter had two months to request postpone- men t. The l iqu ida t ion of investments abroad con- tinued to be subject to prior declaration. These provisions also applied to the mak ing and liqui- dation of inves tmen ts abroad by nonresident companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Mau r i tan ia or so controlled by branches abroad of residents. Direct investment in Mau r i tan ia remained sub- ject to prior declaration, a f ter which the Minister could du r ing a two-month period request post- ponement. The proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion by a nonresident of direct inves tmen ts or other invest- ments could be transferred abroad a f ter submis- sion of supporting documents to the Minister. Borrowing abroad remained subject to prior authorization by the Minister. The exemp t ions from this requ irement were redefined. The report- ing requ i remen ts for amoun ts borrowed or repaid were revised. The repayment of any foreign bor- rowing, whe ther authorized or exempt from au thor iza t ion, required the prior authorization of the M in is te r; exempt from this requ irement were loans cons t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. November 21. Decree No. 69-384 was issued concerning certain financial transactions w i th foreign countries. For purposes of this decree, foreign countries were defined as all countries other than Mau r i tan ia. It revoked Decree No. 67-129 of June 30, 1967 and Decree No. 68-230 of July 15, 1968, by which the former had been modified. The prior au thor iza t ion of the M in is ter was required fo r: (1) the issuing, advertising, or offer- ing for sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign public organ iza t ions or companies, and international ins t i tu t ions; (2) the soliciting in any way of funds for deposit with foreign MAURITANIA private persons and foreign firms or institutions; ( 3) any pub l ic i ty w i th a view to the placing of f u n ds abroad or subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad. Exempt f rom special or general permission, however, were the various activities mentioned above when re la t ing to loans guaranteed by the Mau r i tan ian Government or relating to shares similar to securities whose issuing or offer- ing for sale in Maur i tan ia had previously been authorized. The import and export of gold required the prior approval of the Minister. Exempt were: ( 1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; ( 2) imports and exports of manu fac- tured articles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold; and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a max imum weight to be announced by the Minister. Residents trave l ing to France, Monaco, or Operations Account countries outside the West A f r i c an Monetary Union were required to declare to the customs the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were carry ing if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. December 9. Circular No. 19 was issued con- cerning the means of payment in which proceeds f rom exports to foreign countries must be received. It was amended by Circular No. 20 of December 23. December 17. Order No. 788/MF added a provision to Article 5 of Order No. 736 of December 24, 1968, concerning the export of foreign banknotes by nonresident travelers. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1970: January 5. C ircu lar No. 1 was issued concern- ing the application of Decree No. 69-383. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt f rom prior au thor iza t ion as follows: ( 1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meet- ing the following conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange ma rket or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the annual interest rate must not exceed the normal ma rket rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt f rom approval contracted by the same 337 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITANIA borrower and not yet repaid, inc lud ing the new t ran sac t ion, must not exceed CFAF 50 m i l l ion; (d) the contract or exchange of letters m u st be subm i t ted to the au thor ized b a n k. (3) Loans taken up abroad by indu s t r i al firms to finance t ransac t ions abroad, taken up by any type of firm to finance impo r ts in to or exports f rom Mau r i- t an i a, or taken up by in t e rn a t ion al t r ad ing houses to f inance in te rna t ional m e r ch an t ing t ransac t ions. The repayment of loans not c o n s t i t u t i ng a direct inve s tment requ i red the special au tho r iza- tion of the M in i s ter if the loan itself had been sub ject to such app rova l, but was ex empt if the loan had been exempt f r om special au tho r i z a t ion. The repayment of all loans con t rac ted be fo re the publication of Decree No. 69-383 also r e q u i r ed such special au tho r iza t ion. There were special provisions concerning the ex tens ion of ex is t ing borrowings and concerning advance repaymen t. March 5. Order No. 104/MF f u r t h er modified Order No. 736 of December 24, 1968. Resident travelers were redefined to include residents of France and the o ther Opera t ions Account coun- tries. R e tu rn ing residents had eight days w i th in wh ich to su r render all foreign cu r rency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Nonres ident trave lers were per- m i t ted to export any amount of foreign means of payment other t h an bankno tes, provided that they were issued in M a u r i t a n ia in the ir names and that they had been acqu ired, through an au thor ized b ank, to the debit of a foreign account in f rancs or in exchange for other means of payment denom ina ted in fore ign currency. Fur thermore, non res ident trave lers could und er cer ta in circum- stances take out more th an CFAF 25,000 in for- eign banknotes. 338 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS Exchange Rate System No par value for the Mau r i t ian Rupee has been established with the Fund. The official rate is Re 1 = <£0 Is. 6d., corresponding to Re 1 = US$0.18. The currency issuing au thor i ty is the Bank of Mauritius. Its rates for sterling are Rs 13.31% buy ing and Rs 13.36% selling per <£!. Commercial banks are authorized to deal with customers in sterling at spot rates based on the rates of the Bank of Mau r i t ius, and in o ther foreign cu r r en c i e s* at rates based on London market rates. The commercial banks' rates for sterling on December 31, 1969 were Rs 13.25 buying and Rs 13.40 selling per £1, and those for the U.S. dollar were Rs 5.52 buy ing and Rs 5.60 selling. A d i f fe rent effec t ive rate results from the application of a stamp du ty of 35.70 per cent to outward capital transfers other than trans- fers of bank ing funds and to payments for gold coin and gold bu l l ion. Certain capital transfers to non-Sterling Area countries are channeled through the investment currency and property currency markets in the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Mau r i t ius under powers delegated to it by the Financial Secretary. The authority for approving practically all current payments is in tu rn dele- gated to the commercial banks. The Ministry of Commerce and Indus try is responsible for the issue of import and export licenses, where required. Prescription of Currency Maur i t ius is a member of the Sterling Area but settlements w i th Sterling Area countries are sub- ject to exchange control. Payments to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any Sterling Area currency. Payments from residents of the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from a Sterling Area Account in Mauritius or in any currency of the Sterling Area. Payments 1 The exchange control regulations of Mauritius define foreign currencies as all currencies other than the Mau- ritian rupee. to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be made in rupees to a Sterling Area Account or an External Account in Maur i t ius, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments from residents of countries outside the Sterling Area may be received in rupees from an External Account in Mau r i t ius, in sterling from an Exter- nal Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts: Sterling Area Accounts and External Accounts. Sterling Area Accounts, which may be opened by persons and firms resident in other countries of the Sterling Area, may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts; ( 3) any payments from External Accounts held in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Sterling Area; and (4) the proceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any foreign currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or gold by non- residents of Mauritius. They may be debited for ( 1 ) payments from residents of the Sterling Area to residents of Maur i t ius; (2) transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts; (3) transfers to External Accounts in Mauritius or elsewhere in the Ster- ling Area in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities in the appropri- ate Sterling Area country has been given; and ( 4) the cost of purchase of any Sterling Area currency. External Accounts may be opened by persons and firms resident outside both Mauritius and the Sterling Area. They may be credited with (1) authorized payments by residents of Mauritius; (2) payments from Sterling Area Accounts in respect of which the permission of the exchange control authorities of the appropriate Sterling Area country has been given; (3) any transfers from other External Accounts; and (4) the pro- ceeds of the sale to an authorized dealer of any 339 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MAURITIUS non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhode- sian pound s) or gold by nonresidents of Maur i- t ius and the Sterling Area. They may be debited for (1) any payments to residents of Mauritius; (2) any transfers to Sterling Area Accounts; (3) any t ran s fe rs to other External Accounts; and ( 4) the cost of purchase of any foreign currency (other t h an Rhodes ian pound s) or gold. In add i t ion to the above, there are also Blocked Accounts to which are credited f u n ds owned by persons and firms resident outside Mau r i t ius realized from investments made by them pr ior to Apr il 5, 1966, as well as f u n ds representing emigrants' assets in excess of Rs 67,000. Such accounts may be credited w i th payments by residents of M a u r i t i us that have been specifically authorized for cred it to a Blocked Account and may be debited for certain specified transac t ions. Funds from Blocked Accounts may, w i th approval, be inves ted in M au r i t iu s. Upon the rea l iza t ion of such investments, the proceeds are directed once more to a Blocked Account. imports and import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. There is a list of commodities for which a specific license from the M in is try of Commerce and Indu s t ry is requ ired regardless of origin. All other goods may be free ly imported under open general licenses gran ted to ind iv idual traders when imported from countries of the Sterling Area, but most of these goods require a specific license when imported from non-Sterling Area countries. General licenses are granted liberally. Specific licenses are issued on the basis of domestic requ iremen ts. The issue of a general or specific license automatically carries w i th it exchange control au thor i ty to make the corresponding import paymen ts, subject to compliance with the prescription of currency regulations. Most imports, irrespective of origin, are subject to a customs surcharge of 5 per cent of the appli- cable customs duty. Payments for Invisibles exchange control authorities. The basic travel allowance for tourist purposes is the equivalent of £.250 a person a year for travel to any country in the world except Rhodesia. The allowance for business travel purposes is the equivalent of <£250 a t r ip or <£20 a day up to a max imum of «£ 1,000 a t r ip for travel to countries of the Ster- l ing Area, or up to a total of £750 a trip for t ravel to countries outside the Sterling Area. Applications for exchange for business travel are exam ined by the Bank of Maur i t ius when exceed- ing the equ iva lent of £,250 a person a trip. There are also established limits for payments and t rans fe rs to Sterling Area countries and to non-Sterling Area countries in respect of family support, salary remittances by non-Mauritian na t iona ls, trade commissions, subscriptions to clubs and societies, publishing rights, advertising outside Mau r i t ius, royalties, professional and techn ical services, education, and leave salaries. Applications for amounts exceeding the standard allocations may be submitted to the exchange control authorities. Resident and nonresident travelers may take out Rs 350 in domestic currency. Resident travel- ers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount of their travel allowance. Nonresident travelers may take out any foreign currency declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Also pro- h ib i ted are exports of ( 1) articles made wholly or pa r t ia l ly of gold, p la t inum, or silver; (2) dia- monds, precious and semiprecious stones, pearls, and articles mounted with these; and (3) works of art. All exports valued at more than Rs 1,000 and all exports of food valued at over Rs 50 requ ire a license from the Ministry of Commerce and Indus t ry. The Mau r i t ius Sugar Syndicate is the sole exporter of sugar, and a 5 per cent export tax is levied on sugar exports. All export proceeds in any currency other than Mauritian rupees mu st be offered for sale to an authorized dealer. Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for certain other purposes such as travel, is provided by the commercial banks w i thout prior reference to the Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency other than M au r i t i an rupees must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. There is no limitation on the 340 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution amount of foreign currency notes and coins that may be imported but not more than Rs 700 in domestic currency notes and coins may be imported by travelers. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital are subject to certain restrictions. Nonbank residents of Mauritius may transfer a reasonable amount of capital to any country in the Sterling Area on payment of a 35.70 per cent stamp duty (a duty of 34 per cent plus a surcharge of 5 per cent thereon); they may, subject to permission, which is freely granted, also transfer a reasonable amount of capital to non-Sterling Area countries on payment of the stamp du ty, provided normally that the transfer is made through the investment currency or property market in the United Kingdom. Non- residents require permission to transfer capital to any country; transfers are subject to the payment of stamp du ty at the rate of 35.70 per cent and, if directed toward a country outside the Sterling Area by a resident of the Sterling Area, must normally be made through the investment cur- rency or property currency market. Transfers of capital af ter payment of stamp du ty by residents of non-Sterling Area countries need not be chan- neled through these markets. Foreign-owned companies may freely transfer abroad dividends, profits, and interest on capital. Permission for the repatriation of capital is not granted for capital brought in before April 5, 1966, irrespective of the country of origin, but is, in normal circum- stances, given for capital brought in on or after that date. Proceeds from the sale, liquidation, etc., of foreign capital that may not be repa- triated must be credited to Blocked Accounts. Emigrants may take out, at the official rate of exchange and free of stamp duty, the equivalent of Rs 67,000 from their Mauritian assets when emigrating to any country except Rhodesia; this facility is available upon redesignation as a non- resident, which occurs upon departure. The bal- ance of an emigrant's funds must be credited for MAURITIUS an indefinite period to a Blocked Account; any releases that may be approved for transfer abroad are subject to payment of the 35.70 per cent stamp du ty. Persons emigrating from Mauritius are not entitled to draw their personal travel allowance in addition to the emigration facilities. Gold Residents other than the monetary authorities are permitted to hold gold only in the form of numismatic coins or personal jewelry and orna- ments. The import and export of monetary gold are prohibited, except when made by the mone- tary authorities. Imports of gold for industrial purposes are subject to a quota and specific import license. Exports of articles made wholly or partially of gold, other than jewelry constitut- ing the personal effects of a traveler, are prohib- ited. Payments in respect of private imports of gold coins and gold bullion are subject to stamp du ty at the rate of 35.70 per cent. Changes during 1969 April 1. Requests for foreign exchange for business travel purposes over £250 a person a tr ip had to be referred to the Bank of Mauritius. April 1. The proceeds of the sale of nonresi- dent-owned capital assets brought in prior to April 5, 1966, as well as emigrants' funds in excess of the in i t ial emigration allowance of Rs 67,000, henceforth were credited to a Blocked Account indefinitely. June 21. The effective rate of stamp duty on capital transfers by residents was increased from 26.25 per cent to 35.70 per cent (a duty of 34 per cent and a surcharge of 5 per cent thereon). Previously the effective rates were 26.25 per cent for residents (a du ty of 25 per cent and a sur- charge of 5 per cent thereon) and 35.70 per cent for nonresidents. December 18. The basic allowance for tourist travel to countries outside the Sterling Area was increased from the equivalent of £50 a person a year to the equ iva lent of £250 a person a year. 341 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MEXICO Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Mex ican Peso or Mex$12.50 = US$1. The o f f ic ial rates are Mex$12 .49 buy ing, and Mex$12 .51 selling, per US$1. Exchange transac- tions by commerc ial banks w i th the pub l ic take place at m a rk et rates fluctuating w i t h in these l im i ts. On November 12, 1946, Mexico no t if ied the Fund th at it was prepared to accept the obli- gations of Ar t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t. Prescription of Currency No obligations prescribing the method or cur- rency for paymen ts to or f rom non res iden ts are imposed on impor ters, exporters, or others. In accordance w i th paymen ts ag reemen ts w i th Hun- gary, Po land, Spain, and Yugoslavia, paymen ts for t ransac t ions w i th those coun tr ies are recorded by the Bank of Mexico through special accounts denom ina ted in U.S. dollars. Paymen ts between Mexico and A rgen t ina, Bolivia, Braz i l, Chile, Colombia, Pa raguay, Peru, U rugu ay, and Vene- zuela may be settled th rough accounts m a in t a in ed w i th each o ther by the Bank of Mexico and the cen tral b a n ks concerned, w i t h in the f r am ewo rk of the LAFTA m u l t i l a t e r al c lear ing system. Pay- men ts <o Costa R ica, El Salvador, Gua tema la, Hondu r a s, and N ica ragua in respect of t rade and inv i s ib les may be settled in Mex ican pesos through the Cámara de Compensaci ón Centro- ame r icana, a clearinghouse established by the central b anks of Central America. ited impo r ta t ion du r ing a specified period of time, such as six mon ths or a yea r; subject to screening of the importer's performance, repeated renewal of the license is possible. Applications, except those for "open end" licenses, are screened by the M i n i s t ry of Indu s t ry and Trade w i th the aid of comm i t tees composed of importers and private en t rep reneu rs. Impo rt licenses for leather goods, alcoholic beverages, cigarettes, and motorcars and the ir spare parts are subject to an over-all annual l im i t. All imports by the pub l ic sector and imports of certain goods by the pr iva te sector (assembled and unassembled automobiles and trucks, iron and steel pipe, firearms, watches, syn the t ic fibers, some types of jewe l ry, radios and television sets, and wh isky, wines, and other liq- uo r s) are licensed only if the impor ter guarantees the export of specified commodities of an equiva- lent va lue. Impo r ts and exports under this com- pensation system are effected by the National Foreign Trade Bank, wh ich levies a fee on the impo r te r; th is fee usua l ly is between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent of the va lue of the import trans- action and, a f t er deduction of a commission, is tu rned over to an export promotion fund. Imports by off ic ial Mexican agencies are subject to pr ior approval by the Committee of Public Sector Impo r ts; this approval is not given if a reasonab ly compe t i t ive domestic equ iva lent is ava i lab le, a price d i f f e r e n t i al of 15-20 per cent gene ra l ly being considered acceptable. Many nonessential imports are subject to an import surcharge of 10 per cent ad valorem. imports and import Payments Payments for invisibles Paymen ts and t rans fe rs abroad may be made freely. A few impo r ts are proh ib i ted. All imports mu st be accompanied by an exporter's declara- tion of sh ipm en t. For a considerable number of items, import licenses f rom the M in i s t ry of Indus- try and Trade are requ ired before firm orders are placed; the issuance of such licenses is subject to q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ion, but some of the items concerned do not requ i re an import license when they o r ig ina te in LAFTA countries. For specified commodities, "open end" import licenses (permi- sos abiertos) may be granted that perm it un l im- 342 Paymen ts for invisibles are not restricted. The con trac t ing of insurance for persons in Mexico, or on property of Mexican ownership, or where the risks are for the account of persons in Mexico or may occur in Mexico, is permitted w i th Mex ican companies or with branches of for- eign companies established in Mexico in accord- ance w i th Mexican law. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses. No exchange control requ iremen ts apply to the proceeds of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exports. Subsidies are granted on export taxes on cotton and cer ta in m anu f a c tu r ed products. Proceeds from Invisibles No exchange control requirements apply to proceeds from invisibles. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents. New foreign investment, other than by private ind iv idua ls, in Mexican b ank ing or insurance companies and inves tment funds is pro- hibited. New indus tr ial investments in Mexico over which foreign investors would have ma jor i ty control are not permitted if s im i lar domestic indus tr ies already exist. Credit granted by Mexi- can b anks to subsidiaries in Mexico of foreign companies is subject to guidelines drawn up by the Mexican Bankers' Association. The guidelines apply to companies with assets of over Mex$3 million that are more than 15 per cent foreign owned. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Mexico or abroad. There is a 15 per cent tax on "first hand" sales of newly mined gold to any buyer other than the Bank of Mexico. The Bank, however, does not buy or sell MEXICO gold in transactions with private individuals or firms. Producers of gold under tak ing not to sell it at prices exceeding international quotations plus normal opera t ing costs are eligible for a subsidy corresponding to the fu ll 15 per cent tax when selling newly mined gold in Mexico. Imports and exports of gold are prohibited unless they are made by or on behalf of the Bank of Mexico. Changes during 1969 January 1. All imports had to be accompanied by a specific sh ipp ing document (exporter's dec- la ra t ion) executed by the exporter. January 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Bolivia went into effect. September. A multilateral aid agreement to mitigate temporary liquidity deficiencies was signed and ratified by Mexico, the other LAFTA countries, arid the Dominican Republic. October 17. A reciprocal credit agreement with Uruguay went into effect. October 27. It was announced that, beginning in 1970, Mexican automobile manufacturers would be required to export components made in Mexico if they wished to import any parts. For 1970, the m i n im um compensation ratio would be 5 per cent. The percentage was to be increased gradually, to 100 per cent in 1976. 343 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.175610 gram of fine gold per Moroccan Dirham or DH 5.06049 = US$1. The rate of the d i rham in relation to the French f r anc is fixed at DH 1.09755 per F 1; all transac- tions in French francs except those in French bankno tes take place at that rate, plus or m inus a commission. The Bank of Morocco's buy ing and selling rates for the "convertible currencies" it negotiates l and for the Spanish peseta are based on quotations in the leading foreign exchange markets abroad. The rates of the Bank of Morocco for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1969 were DH 5.0564 buy ing, and DH 5.0716 selling, per US$1. Transactions in clearing dollars under b i la teral payments agreements are carried out on the basis of the official par values declared to the In terna t ional Mone tary Fund. All sales and purchases of foreign currency are centralized in the Bank of Morocco, but the authorized banks are perm i t ted to ma r ry (o f f se t) their pur- chases and sales on behalf of their private cus- tomers in each currency separately. The author- ized banks must purchase from or sell to the Bank of Morocco each day the balances of their purchases and sales in each currency; compensa- tion between banks is not perm i t ted, so that no foreign exchange ma rket exists in Morocco. The Bank of Morocco makes its own purchases and sales of foreign cu r rency mostly in the Paris exchange market but sometimes in other markets. The Bank of Morocco establishes buy ing and selling rates for transactions w i th travelers in banknotes and travelers checks expressed in French francs, CFA francs. Spanish pesetas, and the "convertible currencies"; the authorized banks sell to the Bank of Morocco their excess holdings of banknotes and replenish them at the Bank whenever necessary. Forward exchange trans- actions are not permitted. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the 1 These are listed as Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Djibouti francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne the r lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 344 Moroccan Exchange Office, an agency under the M in is try of Finance. This Office has delegated the execution of certain exchange control measures to authorized banks. Import certificates and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Commerce; they must be countersigned by the Moroccan Exchange Office. Import commitments for liberal- ized goods are signed by the importer himself; they do not require the visa of the Exchange Office unless the country of origin of the goods is not the country of shipment, or the goods are bought on a c.i.f. basis. A part of the port of Tangier is designated as a free trade zone and is exempt from taxation and from trade, customs, and exchange control. Prescription of Currency Morocco's regulations still make a distinction between the French Franc Area and the so-called area of convertibility but Morocco does apply exchange controls also to transactions with the former.2 For prescription of currency purposes, countries are classified as follows: (1) the French Franc Area countries; (2) the payments agreement group, comprising countries with which Morocco maintains bilateral payments ag reemen t s ;3 and (3) all other countries, the so-called area of convertibility. Settlements with other parts of the French Franc Area are made in French francs or, with the exception of settlements for imports, in dir- hams through French Franc Area Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low ). Settle- men ts with the payments agreement group are made by debiting or crediting the payments agreements accounts established for this purpose. Imports originating in countries in the area of convertibility may be paid for only in "converti- ble currencies" negotiated by the Bank of 2 Since February 1967, France has applied to Morocco its controls on foreign investments in France and on French investments abroad. The exchange controls im- posed by France on November 25, 1968 in its financial relations w i th foreign countries are applied also to Morocco. 3 Bulgaria, ma in land China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Guinea, Hunga ry, Mali, Poland, Spain, and U.S.S.R. Payments between Morocco and the United Arab Republic are also settled through special accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Morocco (see footnote 1). Other settlements with countries in the area of convertibility may be made only in "convertible currencies" negotiated by the Bank of Morocco or through Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams. Settlements between Morocco and the United Arab Republic are made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Bank of Morocco and the Central Bank of Egypt; the accounts are denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as follows: 1. French Franc Area Accounts are held in Moroccan cu r rency by residents of other coun- tries of the French Franc Area. These accounts may be used for settlements w i th residents of other coun tr ies in the French Franc Area, except for the payment for imports from those countries. They may be f ree ly credited with and debited for sales or purchases of French francs (except bankno tes) sold to or brought from the Bank of Morocco. Transfers between French Franc Area Accounts may be made freely. 2. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams are reserved for residents of countries in the so- called area of convertibility. These accounts may be credited freely w i th authorized payments due to residents of coun tr ies in the area of converti- bility ( b ut not in respect of imports or related invisibles) and w i th d i rhams obtained from the sale to the Bank of Morocco of "convertible cur- rencies" negotiated by it, excluding banknotes. They may be debited freely for payments in Morocco and for purchases from the Bank of Morocco of the "convertible currencies" negoti- ated by it, inc lud ing bankno tes. Transfers be- tween Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dirhams may be made freely. 3. Payments Agreement Accounts are held by the Bank of Morocco for central banks (or simi- lar in s t i tu t ion s) of the countries with which Morocco ma in ta ins bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3 ); they are used only for settle- ments w i th these countries, including settlements for imports and exports. All transactions on these accounts require approval. MOROCCO 4. Spanish Foreign Accounts in Dirhams are held by the Bank of Morocco for the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute and by authorized banks in Morocco for authorized banks in Spain. They are used only for settlements in accordance w i th the paymen ts agreement with Spain. 5. Capital Accounts, which may be held by any nonresident, are credited w i th funds that may not be transferred abroad. Transfers between Capital Accounts related to countries in the same currency group ( the area of convertibility, the French Franc Area) or related to the same coun- try in the payments agreement group are permitted freely. Subject to certain limitations, they may be debited for purchases of Moroccan securities on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscrip- tions to the capital of Moroccan companies whose shares are quoted on the Casablanca stock exchange; for subscriptions to long-term or short-term obligations w i th a fixed yield issued by a Moroccan en t i ty (short-term obligations are those that ma tu re or become payable in five years or less); for custody charges and commissions on securities held for nonresidents; for personal expenses of the account holder and his immediate fam i ly dur ing their stay in Morocco, up to DH 100 a day for each account; and for payment of the costs of ma in tenance, repairs, taxes, and insurance on real estate located in Morocco. Capi- tal Accounts may be debited freely for purchases of specified 4 per cent ten-year government bonds; interest and redemption proceeds are transferab le, and the bonds are freely negotiable between nonresidents. All other operations through Capital Accounts require individual approval. 6. Suspense Accounts are used for holding nonres ident f u n ds not available for credit to any of the accounts mentioned above. Balances on these accounts may be used free ly to pay taxes due to the Moroccan authorities, but all other debits to these accounts require approval. Imports and import Payments Imports are adm i t ted in accordance w i th an annual General Impo rt Program. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports are divided into three categories applicable to all countries. Goods in List A are liberalized. Goods in List B are restricted, in many cases by a global quota, or 345 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO are subject to state t rad ing; for a number of List B items, there are special subquotas for the EEC countries as a group. In principle, the importa- tion of goods in List C is not perm i t ted .4 To import goods in List A, the importer signs an import comm i tment (engagement d'importation), which does not requ i re adm in i s t r a t ive approval unless the goods are imported from a coun t ry other than that of origin or are purchased on a c.i.f. basis,5 but for goods in List B, an import license (autorisation d'importation or certificat d'importation) mu st be obtained. For certain goods in List B, protective quotas are established; for imports of such goods from any source a "quota certificate" (certificat de contingentement) is requ ired. For all imports the import t i t le — import certifi- cate or import comm i tmen t —must be domiciled (registered) w i th an authorized bank, wh ich may make paymen ts upon subm iss ion of the requ ired documents. Impo rt ce r t i f ica tes requ i re the visa of the Exchange Office before the fo re ign exchange is made available. Import comm i tmen ts requ ire this visa only when the coun t ry of origin and the country of sh ipment of the goods concerned d i f f er or when imports are contracted for on a c.i.f. basis. An advance deposit of 25 per cent of the f.o.b. value must be made by impo r te rs at the t ime the import t i t le ( impo rt comm i tment or impo rt cer- tificate) is domiciled w i th an authorized b ank; the bank must pay one h a lf of the deposit to the Bank of Morocco to be held for account of the Treasury.0 For most imports from o ther par ts of the French Franc Area, except Senegal, the advance deposit must be paid at least one month before importation takes place. Impo rt certificates must be domiciled w i t h in a period of 15 days from the da te that the Exchange Office approves the license. Import comm i tmen ts must be domi- ciled at the t ime of their subscription. The fol- lowing are exempt from the advance deposit requirement: government imports; imports 4 On January 1, 1970, f u r t h er import l ibe ra l iza t ion took place, by sh if ts from List B to List A as well as shifts from List C to List B. 5 C.i.f. imports of List A goods require prior exchange control approval. 6 The advance deposit requirement was te rm ina ted w i th effect from March 4, 1970. 346 financed with U.S. a id; imports from countries in the paymen ts agreement group; imports from Senegal; specified essential impor ts; and imports by specified organizations. The deposit is r e f u n d ed when the impo rt has taken place and payment has been made in f u l l, or, in certain cir- cums tances, if the import certificate or the import comm i tment is allowed to expire. Most impo r ts f rom coun tr ies in the payments agreement group are made in accordance w i th the quo tas es tab l ished in the respective trade agree- ments. Impor ts can also be licensed under com- pensation transac t ions. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for most cu r rent invisibles are au tho r ized by the Exchange Office upon presenta- t ion of the necessary ju s t i f i c a t ion; in several ins tances the approval au tho r i ty has been dele- gated to the bank s. The au thor ized banks are p e rm i t t ed to m ake paymen ts and settle expenses inc iden tal to the commercial transac t ion covered by the re levant impo rt or export documents. Earn ings a f t er tax on approved nonresident inve s tmen ts in Morocco are t rans fe rab le to the investor's coun t ry of residence. The t rans fer of d iv idends on nonresident-owned shares of Moroc- can companies hav ing their ma in office in Morocco has been delegated to the authorized b anks by the Exchange Office, provided that the shares are quo ted on the Casablanca stock exchange and that the Exchange Office has approved the amount of the d iv idend to be dis- t r ibu ted; the t r an s f er of other d iv idends requires specific approval by the Exchange Office. Undis- t r ibu ted t ran s fe rab le profits remain transferable. Some paymen ts are subject to l im i ta t ion s: A for- eign employee may t rans fer to his coun try of origin, subject to the approval of the Exchange Office, 50 per cent of his mon th ly wages or sa la ry if his fam i ly does not reside in Morocco, or 30 per cent if he is single or his fam i ly lives in Morocco; the same percentages of their monthly earnings may be t rans fe r red by foreign nationals engaged in professions, subject (except for the medical and related professions) to a limit of DH 12,000 a year.7 An allocation of foreign 7 For all wages, salaries, and professional earnings, the mon th ly t ran s fe rs cannot exceed by more than DH 150 the amount transferred for June 1969. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange equivalent to DH 25 a trip, which may be taken up twice a year, is granted to residents of any nationality for travel abroad.8 Residents of foreign na t iona l i ty may acquire exchange for tourist travel up to the equivalent of DH 5,000 for each passport a year by selling to an author- ized bank a corresponding amount in foreign exchange, other than bankno tes from their own foreign assets not subject to surrender require- ments. Foreign employees of the Moroccan Gov- e rnment and of public agencies or institutions, teachers of foreign na t iona l i ty employed by the M in is try of Na t ional Education, and experts holding contracts w i th in the f ramewo rk of the technical cooperation agreements with France may obtain a complementary tourist allocation of Ptas 3,500 for travel th rough Spain when on leave. Applications for exchange for business travel must normally be directed to the Exchange Office, wh ich considers each case on its me r i t s ;9 exporters may be granted up to DH 200 a day for up to 60 days a year, up to a l im it of 1 per cent of the fore ign exchange surrendered dur ing the preceding year. The allocation issued for business travel may be added to the allocation issued for tour ist travel. For study in countries of the French Franc Area and in Spain, a monthly allocation of foreign exchange up to DH 500 is granted, provided that no comparable educational fac i l i t ies are available in Morocco; the corre- sponding allocation for the United States is DH 750 a mon th, and that for other countries DH 600 a mon th. For fam i ly ma in tenance, there is a mon th ly allocation of DH 250. Travelers are not permitted to take out Moroccan banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most exports may be made freely, although export licenses are requ ired for a few items. All f ru i t s, fresh vegetables, canned goods, raw cotton, and cotton by-products may be exported only by a state trad ing agency, the Office of Marke t ing and Export (Office de Commercialisation et d'Expor- 8 On January 2, 1970, the allocation was increased for residents not m ak ing regular transfers to DH 100 a per- son for each 12-month period. 9 A standard allowance of DH 150 a day was in tro- duced on Janua ry 1, 1970. Previously, an allowance of DH 50 a day was usually granted. MOROCCO tation —OCE). That Office also is in charge of wine exports. All exporters must sign an under tak ing to repatriate and surrender the foreign exchange proceeds of the ir exports. The surrender of the proceeds to the exporter's bank must take place w i th in one mon th f rom the date the payment is due. The da te on which the payment is due is the m a tu r i ty date fixed in the commercial contract; this da te must not be set, in principle, more than 90 days a f ter the date of arrival of the merchan- dise at the place of des t ina t ion. When the bank receiving the funds that represent the proceeds f rom exports receives the advice of credit in for- eign currency from abroad, it must surrender the foreign exchange immed ia te ly to the Bank of Morocco. Proceeds from Invisibles Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty and Moroc- can companies mu st repatriate exchange receipts acc ru ing f rom all the ir noncommercial claims and surrender them to an authorized bank. Other resi- dents must surrender noncommercial receipts only if the receipts result from current transac- tions, and only when they accrue in foreign cur- rencies other than those of the French Franc Area. The importation of Moroccan banknotes is prohibited. Nonresident travelers may bring in free ly foreign banknotes, which may be declared upon en t ry. Resident travelers also may bring in any amount in foreign banknotes, but these must be surrendered w i th in 15 days of re-entry. Capital Residents of Moroccan na t iona l i ty, as well as companies established in Morocco, are obliged to declare to the Exchange Office all foreign-held assets exceeding DH 250, and to repatriate and surrender certain of these assets. The disposal of other foreign-held assets requires permission. The transfer of capital abroad by residents must be approved. Exchange is allocated to repatriates up to DH 35,000 a fam i ly, and on account of dowries and inheritances up to the same amount. Foreign investments in Morocco must be approved by the Exchange Office. Foreign invest- 347 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution MOROCCO men ts approved by the Inves tment Committee are gran ted va r ious tax and customs ta r i ff benefits and inv e s tm ent bonuses s im i lar to those granted to domestic inves tmen ts, in accordance with measures put into effect on February 10, 1961; they are also granted a gua ran tee of repatriation of the proceeds f rom l iqu ida t ion of the invest- men t, when the inves tment has been financed e i ther w i th conver t ib le currencies or in conform- ity w i th the rules govern ing settlements with other coun tr ies. The Exchange Office may also grant a guaran tee of re t ran s fer of investments wh ich are not exam ined by the Government Commission.10 The gua ran tee of repa t r ia t ion is f ree ly t rans fe r- able between all nonres iden ts (if the inves tment has been financed with conver t ib le cu r renc ies) and between nonres iden ts of the same coun try or cu r rency area (if the inve s tment has been f inanced w i th o ther cu r renc ies ). Proceeds f rom the l iqu id a t ion of other inves tmen ts are credited to Capital Accounts. Cer ta in government bonds acquired w i th funds f rom Capital Accounts are f ree ly negotiable between nonres iden ts (see Nonres ident Accounts, above ). All other t ransac t ions in securities invo lv ing non res ident interests, as well as the import and export of securities, require approval. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Morocco for num i sm a t ic or inves tment purposes. Ten d i f f e r e nt types of fore ign gold coins are traded on the Casablanca stock exchange, wh ich does not, however, deal in gold bars or ingots. Impor ts and exports of gold are proh ib i ted unless au tho r ized by the W a r r an ty Office in the D irec tora te of Customs and Ind i rect Taxes, wh ich derives its approval au tho r i ty f rom the M in is ter of Finance. Every year the M in is ter 10 W i th e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 28, 1970 the g u a r a n t ee of re t ran s fer was ex tended au tom a t i c a l ly to all new fore ign investments. of Finance fixes a quo ta for the importation of gold ingots, wh ich is then allocated among jewel- ers and other users. Gold in the form of coins, ingots, or bars is free from import duty and import taxes. Changes during 1969 January 23. Imports of List A goods required the prior visa of the Exchange Office when the goods were to be purchased on a c.i.f. basis. March 31. An Agreement of Association was signed w i th the EEC. It became effective on Sep- tember 1. April 25. The General Import Program for 1969 was published. There were only minor changes in the previous year's commodity Lists B and C, wh i le List A remained unchanged. June 20. Persons entitled to make monthly t ran s fe rs of wages, salaries, and professional earn ings could, if they wished, take up their allo- cations in the form of foreign banknotes. July 25. Royal Decree No. 1-69-25 was issued, con ta in ing an agricultural investment law. August 11. The fixed exchange rate for the French f ranc was changed from DH 1.025 = F 1 to DH 1.09755 = F 1. The fixed exchange rate for CFA francs was adjusted accordingly. September 1. Subquotas for EEC countries were established for certain commodities on List B. October 1. Add i t ional imports were liberalized. Most were previously on List B. November 1. A number of additional imports were l ibera l ized. These were previously on List B and inc luded par ts for radio and television sets and par ts for small passenger automobiles. December 10. Imports of beer, champagne, and wh isky were liberalized. They were pre- viously on List B. 348 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Nonresident Accounts NEPAL The par value is 0.087770 gram of fine gold per Nepalese Rupee or NRs 10.1250 = US$1. Most of Nepal's foreign exchange transactions are in terms of Indian rupees. The par value gives a re la t ionsh ip of 135 Nepalese rupees equals 100 Indian rupees. Residents may freely purchase Indian rupees from Nepalese banks and they may hold any amount of Indian notes and coins, but the Indian rupee is not legal tender. Administration of Control A Foreign Exchange Committee, consisting of representatives from the Nepal Rastra Bank (the central b a n k) and the Ministries of Finance, For- eign A f f a i r s, and Indus try and Commerce, pre- pares an annual foreign exchange budget for for- eign currencies other than the Indian rupee and excluding transactions w i th the clearing countries. Permission is required from the Ministry of Finance for all foreign payments, except pay- men ts for certain specified invisibles that require au thor iza t ion from the Nepal Rastra Bank. Import licensing is the responsibility of the Minis- try of Indu s t ry and Commerce. All exchange transactions with countries other than India must be settled through authorized dealers, i.e., the Nepal Bank Ltd. and the Ras tr iya Van i jya Bank. W i th in Nepal there are 17 additional authorized dealers licensed to purchase foreign currencies; any sale of such currencies other than Indian rupees is subject to the prior approval of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements apply to outgoing payments to countries w i th which no paymen ts agreement is in force, and these may be made in the foreign currency supplied by the Nepal Rastra Bank. The proceeds of exports to India are obtained in Ind ian or Nepalese rupees; the proceeds of exports to other countries must be received in any of the convertible currencies quoted by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Nepal has bilateral payments agreements with mainland China, Bulgaria, Pakistan, Poland, and the U.S.S.R.; payments between Nepal and these countries must be made through special accounts. Nonresidents who are representatives of for- eign governments or United Nations organizations are allowed to open "convertible rupee accounts" w i th Nepalese banks, the balances of which may be freely transferred abroad. Other nonresidents may open accounts only in Nepalese rupees. For- eign currencies brought into or received in Nepal by nonresidents, which are converted into Nepalese rupees and deposited with a Nepalese bank, may be reconverted for transfer out of the country, subject to prior permission of the Nepal Rastra Bank. Imports and Import Payments All imports of goods except those originating in Ind ia (o ther than alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and most tobacco products) or Tibet require impo rt licenses from the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Imports of vegetables, vegetable oil, ma rga r ine, animal f a t, beef, arms and ammuni- tion, explosives, chemicals to be used for explo- sives, and wireless transm i t ters are prohibited. Under the Trade and Transit Treaty of Septem- ber 11, 1960, Nepal and India agreed to freedom of trade between themselves in Nepalese and Ind ian goods; Indian goods may be imported freely, and imports of all commodities subject to excise d u ty in India benefit f rom reimbursement of tax by the Government of Ind ia to the Gov- ernment of Nepal. With the exception noted below, applications to the M in is t ry of Finance for foreign exchange to pay for imports from countries other than Ind ia are considered on their merits; an applica- tion mu s t, however, be in accordance with the annual foreign exchange budget. Exporters enti- tled to import goods with exporters' exchange entitlements are, within the limits of their entitle- ment, granted a license automatically for goods specified by the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, below). Certain imports f rom all sources are subject to import surcharges. 349 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEPAL Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts to Ind ia may be made f ree ly in Ind ian rupees, but for purchases of Rs 500 or over the purpose of the p a ym e nt must be indi- cated. Paymen ts .for f re ight and insurance are given the same t r e a tm e nt as the re la ted import paymen ts. For t ravel to coun t r ies other than India for medical t r e a tm en t, fore ign exchange is allowed up to the e q u i v a l e nt of US$1,000 at a t ime; students s tudy ing at the ir own expense in these countries are allowed up to US$1,500 a year for board and lodging, wh i le paymen ts for t u i t i on fees are allowed as requ i red. Paymen ts for o ther invisibles depend on the essen t ia l i ty of the t ransac t ion and the ava i lab i l i ty of fo re ign exchange. Nepalese and I n d i an cu r rency may be t ak en out f ree ly to Ind ia by Nepalese and Ind i an na t iona ls on ly; the export of these cu r renc ies to coun t r ies other than Ind ia is p roh ib i ted. Foreign bankno tes other than Ind i an bankno tes may not be taken out by resi- dents w i thout permission. Nonresidents may take out the unchanged amount of any foreign bank- notes they b rought in; however, nonres iden ts other th an I n d i an na t iona ls may not take out Nepalese or I n d i an bankno tes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of old coins, gold and silver and coins and jewe l ry made of these me ta l s, cows, b u f f a- loes, and rh inoce ros ho rns are p roh ib i ted. The re-export to I n d ia of non-Nepa lese goods is not no rma l ly pe rm i t ted, and re-exports to any desti- n a t ion of kerosene, gasoline, cemen t, iron bars, and packaged food s tu f fs are p roh ib i ted. All other goods may be exported f ree ly. Certain exports, m a in ly to p aym en ts ag reement countries, are effected by a state t r ad ing corporation, the N a t ion al Trad ing Ltd. The exchange proceeds of exports, except Indian rupees, must be surrendered to the Nepal Rastra Bank or an authorized bank at the official buy ing rate of exchange, w i th in six months of sh ipmen t. The exporter receives f rom the M in- istry of Finance a non t rans fe rab le exporters' exchange en t i t lement corresponding to a specified proportion of his export proceeds in fore ign cur- rencies o ther than Ind i an rupees; the entitlement may be used to obtain exchange at the o f f ic ial 350 ra te for the import of goods specified by the Min- i s t ry of I n d u s t ry and Commerce. En t i t lemen ts g ran ted to indu s t r ies expo r t ing the ir own products may be used on ly for raw ma ter ia ls, spare parts, and m a c h i n e r y, all for the ir own produc t ion, and for sa la r ies payable in fore ign exchange. Expo r te rs engaged in b i la teral trade, i.e., those se l l ing to coun tr ies w i th wh ich Nepal ma in ta ins p aym en ts agreements, are granted entitlements correspond ing to 40 per cent of their export ea rn ings for impo r ts of the ir choice f rom the p a r tn er coun t ry concerned; the rema in ing 60 per cent mu st be used to import specified commodi- ties f rom the pa r tner coun t ry concerned. When exports are made to convertible currency coun- tries, exchange en t i t lemen ts are granted as fol- lows. Indu s t r ies expo r t ing j u te are granted entitle- men ts correspond ing to 50 per cent of export proceeds, and t rade rs 30 per cent. The ratios of exchange en t i t lemen ts w i th respect to the exports of o ther goods, which are the same for industries and traders, are 90 per cent for j u te cuttings and caddies, 70 per cent for sackings, rice, pulses, t im b e r, and linseed, 40 per cent for musk, and 60 per cent for hessians and for all goods not men- t ioned. Proceeds from Invisibles W i th the exception of Ind i an rupees, foreign exchange proceeds derived f rom transac t ions in inv i s ib les mu st be surrendered to the Nepal Ra s t ra Bank or an authorized bank at the official ra te of exchange. Nepalese and Ind ian currency may be brought in f rom Ind ia only, and by Nepalese and Ind i an na t iona ls only; the import of these cu r renc ies f rom coun tr ies other than India is proh ib i ted. Nonres iden ts o ther than Indian n a t ion a ls are not allowed to b r ing in Nepalese or I n d i an bankno tes. Other foreign banknotes may be brought in freely, subject to declaration. Capital No conditions are laid down concerning receipts and remittances in respect of capital transac t ions, but official exchange is not normally provided for capital remittances by Nepalese na t iona ls. Nepalese citizens, whether resident in Nepal or not, are prohibited from mak ing any type of inves tment in foreign countries except inv e s tm ent specifically exempted by government ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution notice published in the Official Gazette; the exemptions include the purchase and sale of insurance policies abroad, investments abroad by any bank ing or financial ins t i tu t ion incorporated in Nepal, and the purchase of shares of foreign companies under a rights issue. Foreign investors in Nepal who obtain an inves tment guarantee may remit yearly profits of up to 25 per cent of the total profit on the for- eign capital invested and, in any one year, up to 10 per cent of the pr inc ipa l; if the exchange situ- ation permits, profits in excess of 25 per cent are rem i t tab le. Indus tr ial enterprises capitalized at US$65,000 or more may be wholly owned by nonresidents. Nepal has a bilateral Investment Guarantee Agreement with the United States. Gold Residents may free ly purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nepal. Imports for indu s t r ial and h and i c r a ft use from India, at Ind ian gold prices, are free. No import licenses for gold are issued under the exporters' exchange entitlement scheme. Imports of gold from any country other than Ind ia requ ire a license and are subject to an import du ty of NRs 5.85 a troy ounce; such imports are not normally allowed. Exports of gold may be made only by the mone tary authori- ties and requ ire prior approval by the Ministry of Finance. Domestic dealings in gold do not require NEPAL a license but are subject to sales tax of 7 per cent. Changes during 1969 February 10. Certain Indian cigarettes could be imported w i thout an import license. March 24. The 50 per cent rebate on excise du ty on sugar exports was abolished. April 21. The export duty on sugar of NRs 0.25 a kilogram was abolished. June 30. Exporters' exchange entitlement rates were increased for all categories of exports, but only for exports to convertible currency coun- tries. The d is t inc t ion between exports by industry and by traders was removed with respect to all exports to convertible currency countries except raw ju te. October 8. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded w i th Bulgaria. November 2. The import by air or parcel post of g i f ts requ ired an import license if valued at over NRs 200. The exemption for the licensing requ irement was limited, moreover, to two par- cels a year for each recipient. Recipients must be Nepalese c i t izens and the goods concerned must be finished consumer goods. Previously, all impor ts of gifts by post were exempt f rom import license when valued at NRs 1,000 or less. 351 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Exchange Rate System Administration of Control NETHERLANDS The par value is 0.245489 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Guilder or f. 3.62 = US$1. The official limits are f. 3 .5 9l/4 buy ing, and f. 3.643/4 selling, per US$1, at which rates the exchange authorities stand ready to deal; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange market between these l im i ts. Market rates for other cur- rencies vary between limits that result from com- b in ing the off ic ial limits for the U.S. dollar main- tained by the Netherlands and such limits in force in the country of the other currency con- cerned. Au thor ized banks are freely permitted to buy and sell convertible currencies l and inconverti- ble currencies, both spot and forward, against convertible currencies, including guilders on Con- vertible Guilder Accounts, and inconvertible cur- rencies; they are free to deal with residents and nonresidents, whe ther banks or nonbanks. For- ward exchange contracts are not limited as to delivery period. Residents are permitted to con- clude spot transactions with other residents, including authorized banks, and they may con- clude forward transactions for any period with authorized banks; residents other than banks are free to hold foreign currency accounts at home and on application are permitted to hold such accounts in the ir own names with banks abroad. The Kingdom of the Netherlands accepted the obligations of Article V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory All transactions with the Netherlands Antilles and Surinam are subject to exchange control. However, vis-à-vis third countries with which payments agreements are in force, the Nether- lands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Surinam con- stitute the Netherlands Monetary Area. 1 These are listed in the Netherlands regulations as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 352 Exchange control is administered by the Neth- erlands Bank on behalf of the Ministers of Foreign A f fa i r s, Finance, Economic Affairs, and Agriculture. Import and export licensing are han- dled by the Central Import-Export Agency (CD IU) and the delegated offices, under direc- tives from the Directorate-General for Foreign Economic Relations. Invisibles and capital trans- actions are licensed by the Netherlands Bank, as are transit trade transactions, except those in strategic goods and scrap, which are licensed by the CDIU.2 All commercial banks of any impor- tance are authorized to handle foreign exchange transactions w i th in the scope of general and spe- cial licenses granted by the licensing authorities. Prescription of Currency Payments to nonresidents, if eligible for trans- fer abroad, must be made through an authorized bank, either in guilders to the credit of a nonresi- dent guilder account held with an authorized bank in the Netherlands or to the debit of the authorized bank's currency holdings abroad. All foreign countries except the U.S.S.R. are included in the "convertible guilder area." Pay- ments to countries in the convertible guilder area may be made in any foreign currency or in guild- ers to the credit of any nonresident account. Receipts from countries in the convertible guilder area must be obtained in the convertible curren- cies (see footnote 1), or in guilders to the debit of a Convertible Guilder Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, below); however, receipts may also be collected in other currencies, pro- vided that the amounts received are deposited with the Netherlands Bank or an authorized bank. Most transactions with the U.S.S.R. are settled in guilders by crediting or debiting the Bilateral Guilder Account of the Foreign Trade 2 Merchan t ing transactions involving Rhodesia are prohibited. Most other transactions are freely permitted by v i r tue of general licenses granted to registered tran- sit traders. The only merchanting transactions still sub- ject to a specific license are (a) purchases and sales of strategic goods and, w i th in the EEC, of scrap; and (b) all sales to the U.S.S.R. when payable in bilateral Neth- erlands guilders. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Bank of the U.S.S.R. with the Netherlands Bank; receipts may also be obtained in the convertible currencies, or in guilders to the debit of a Con- vertible Guilder Account. Payments between residents may be made freely in any foreign currency, provided that the amount involved is debited to a foreign currency account in the Netherlands or abroad and is cred- ited to a foreign currency account in the name of the beneficiary with an authorized bank in the Netherlands. Nonresident Accounts The ma in categories of nonresident guilder accounts are as follows:3 1. Convertible Guilder Accounts. These accounts may be held by any nonresident. They may be credited with transfers from other Con- vertible Guilder Accounts, with permitted pay- ments by residents of the Netherlands to residents of countries of the convertible guilder area, with proceeds from the sale of gold or convertible cur- rencies, and with Netherlands notes and coins remitted or deposited by nonresidents. They may be debited for payments to residents for exports and services rendered to any country and for other permitted transactions, including purchases of foreign currencies. Balances on these accounts may be transferred to any other nonresident account. 2. Bilateral Guilder Accounts. The only account of this type is that of the Foreign Trade Bank of the U.S.S.R. with the Netherlands Bank. It is used for the settlement of transactions between the Netherlands and the U.S.S.R. It may be credited with transfers from any Convertible Guilder Account, and with proceeds from the sale in the Netherlands of gold or convertible currencies. It may be debited for permitted pay- ments to residents. Imports and import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Import licenses are required for many textiles unless they 3 Certain balances and securities deposits belonging to nonresidents residing in Indonesia are designated W- accounts and W-deposits, respectively; their disposal must be licensed by the Netherlands Bank. NETHERLANDS are imported f rom the Belgian-Luxembourg Eco- nomic Un ion and do not originate in Hong Kong, Japan, or a state trading country. In addition to these, import licenses are required only for imports from Hong Kong, Japan, and state trading countries, and for the import of goods of unknown origin and of a limited number of prod- ucts ma in ly from the agricultural sector. Except for imports f rom Rhodesia, practically all imports that requ ire an import license are free from quan- t i ta t ive restriction. Most imports from Czechoslo- vak ia, Hunga ry, Poland, and Ruman ia are for- mally liberalized, although still subject to license. Twenty-two commodities are subject to quantita- tive restriction when originating in Japan. Imports from non-EEC countries of most products covered by the Common Agricultural Policy of the EEC ( inc lud ing cereals, rice, pork, eggs, and pou l try mea t) are subject to variable import levies that have replaced all previous bar- riers to imports; common EEC regulations are also applied to imports from non-EEC countries of beef, veal, dairy products, olive oil, most other oils and fa ts, sugar, and specified fru i ts and vege- tables. Payments for imports may be made freely, provided that the method of payment conforms with the general prescription of currency regula- tions. Residents may freely grant credit in respect of imports of commodities.4 Payments for invisibles Payments abroad for invisibles are permitted freely. Exchange for travel is provided in any currency and up to any amount, and the entire amount may be taken, if the traveler wishes, in Netherlands banknotes. A resident traveling abroad may in addition have any fu r ther amounts remitted to him through banking channels. Exchange purchased for travel purposes must not be spent for other purposes; it may be used for purchases for personal use, however. Payments for interest, dividends, and contractual amortiza- tion due to nonresidents are permitted freely by crediting the appropriate nonresident account. The export of Netherlands banknotes by resi- dent travelers is not subject to limitation. Nonres- 4 Commodities are so defined as to exclude gold. 353 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS idents may export all unu t i l ized negotiable instru- ments and foreign and Netherlands banknotes and coins which they have impor ted or have obtained in the Ne ther lands by drawing on their accounts or exchanging other currencies. The export of Ne ther lands silver coins by travelers is limited to f. 25 a person a tr ip. Exports and Export Proceeds V i r t u a l ly all exports to Rhodesia are prohib- ited; all other exports to Rhodesia requ i re an export license. For exports to other countries, export licenses are required only for a few com- modities, mos t ly of a strategic charac ter, and for some ag r i cu l tu r al products. Residents may f ree ly grant credit in respect of exports of commodities (see footnote 4 ). The su r render of export proceeds is not obligatory, but any su r render t h at is made mu st be at the o f f ic ial ra te. The collection of export proceeds through an au thor ized bank is obligatory. A license may be obtained to hold a foreign cur- rency account w i th a bank abroad, to which account export proceeds may be credited. Proceeds from invisibles Exchange receipts from invisibles must be col- lected th rough an au thor ized bank but need not be su r rende red and may instead be credited to fore ign cu r rency accounts. A license may be ob ta ined to hold a foreign currency account with a bank abroad, to which account proceeds f r om invisibles may be credited. For incom ing ex- change exceed ing f. 500 de r ived f rom cu r r ent inv is ib les, the recipient must ind ica te to an au tho r ized b ank the n a t u re of the unde r ly ing t ransac t ion, as well as the amount and currency received. Nonresidents may bring into the Netherlands un l im i t ed amoun ts in Ne the r lands banknotes, for- eign bankno tes, and negotiable ins trumen ts. These may be sold only to an au tho r ized bank, to an au thor ized exchange office, or, in the case of foreign banknotes, to an au thor ized depository, or they may be used to pay tourist expenses in the Ne the r lands. Residents are obliged to br ing back to the Ne the r lands any unu t i l ized portion of the bankno tes and coins that they took w i th them on their ou tward journey; there is no limitation 354 on the amount in Netherlands or foreign bank- notes and coins that they may bring in. Capital Inwa rd and ou tward capital transfers and the sh i f t ing of foreign-owned capital w i th in the Neth- er lands f rom one asset to ano ther are subject to control, but general licenses are granted for most types of cap i tal transaction. Borrowing and lend- ing abroad by bank and nonbank residents (with the exception of specified bank ing operations and of credit in respect of imports or exports of com- mod i t ies o ther th an gold) are restricted for rea- sons of cap i tal ma rket policy and, as far as bor- row ing is concerned, to control the contracting of fo re ign debt by local authorities, or for reasons of mone ta ry policy. Borrowing f rom nonresident banks by pr iva te indu s t ry and other nonbank res- idents is not no rma l ly perm i t ted, and loans f rom other sources (except suppliers' credits) are sub- ject to ind iv idu al approva l. There is a general license for loans up to f. 100,000 taken up by residents f rom nonresidents, provided that a resi- dent in any ca lendar year does not borrow more than f. 100,000 f rom the same nonresident. A s im i lar license has been issued for lending to non- residents. Nonbank residents are not normally perm i t ted to purchase foreign treasury bills or other fo re ign short-term debt ins t rumen ts. Most cap i tal t ransac t ions, whether freely permitted or not, mu st be no t i f ied to the Balance of Payments Depa r tment of the Netherlands Bank. Cap i tal issues in the Ne ther lands on behalf of nonresidents are restricted. Issues for the financing of new or ex is t ing direct investments in the Nether- lands are not restricted. Bond issues denominated in gu i lde rs are ind iv idu a l ly licensed by the Neth- e r lands Bank w i th in global limits that are estab- lished annu a l ly in accordance w i th the prospects for the domestic capital market and the balance of payments. Au tho r ized banks are not permitted to main- ta in net short-term external l iab i l i t ies and their net foreign asset position ( inc lud ing loans and advances) is subject to a ceiling. W i th in this ceil- ing, they may f ree ly lend to nonresident banks, for any period, but the ir borrowing from such banks is restricted. Their net foreign liabilities must not exceed f. 5 million for each bank; the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution calculation is based on the foreign position in all currencies, including guilders, and on the sum of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities. New capital investments in the Netherlands by nonresidents are in general permitted; inward direct inves tment is free ly permitted. The transfer abroad of the proceeds from the sale or liquida- tion of inves tmen ts in industrial enterprises and other businesses established in the Netherlands is freely pe rm i t ted. Local borrowing by nonresi- dent-owned or nonresident-controlled companies is f ree ly pe rm i t ted. Direct investment abroad by residents is au tho r ized on app l ica t ion, provided that no capital flight seems to be involved. Transactions between residents and nonresi- dents in domestic and fore ign securities take place at official ma rket rates and, w i th m inor exceptions, are unres tr ic ted; the regulations con- cerning securities are not applicable to treasury bills. The foreign currency proceeds from securi- ties sold abroad by residents must be deposited with an au tho r ized bank or securities broker in the Ne the r lands and may be sold or retained. The proceeds of securities sold in the Ne the r lands by nonres iden ts are t rans fe rab le in any cu r rency, irrespective of the seller's country of domicile or residence. Nonresidents may have the ir securities, Ne the r lands or foreign, exported to them (but see foo tno te 3 ). Domestic and foreign securities held abroad by a resident are subject to a deposit requ iremen t, but the Netherlands Bank grants exemptions on application. Residents may freely purchase real estate abroad. G i f ts and dona t ions to nonres iden ts are free.5 Em igran ts may export any amount in foreign and domestic currency. Emigrants acquire the status of nonresidents upon leaving the Nether- lands, provided that they have declared their intention to settle abroad for more than three years; they may upon departure have remitted to them the ir total assets in the Netherlands. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries may be made free ly in respect of inheritances f rom estates being distributed in the Netherlands. 5 Cha r i tab le g if ts and dona t ions for religious purposes are included in the Ne the r lands de f in i t ion of current payments. NETHERLANDS Gold The Ne ther lands Bank engages in gold transac- tions only w i th monetary authorities and interna- tional financial institutions. Neither the Bank nor any government agency imports or markets gold for indu s t r ial use. Authorized banks and other residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold ( f ine gold, gold coin, and gold alloys) in the Ne ther lands or abroad; gold held abroad, how- ever, must be kept on deposit with the foreign correspondent of an authorized depository. Imports and exports of gold require neither exchange licenses nor import and export licenses. There is a free gold market in Amsterdam. Com- mercial imports and exports of gold jewelry and of articles containing minor quantities of gold, such as watches, require import licenses issued by delegated offices of the CDIU; such licenses are issued free ly. Changes during 1969 January 1. A value-added tax was introduced. The general rate was 12 per cent; the other rates were 4 per cent and a "zero-tariff" rate. There were also certain exemptions. A 15 per cent con- sumption tax was levied, in addition to the value- added tax, on passenger cars, whether imported or produced domestically. January 1. Indonesia was included in the con- ver t ib le guilder area. January 24. A general license replacing certain ind iv idu al licenses allowed residents normally engaged in contracting abroad to maintain foreign currency accounts abroad in their own names and to have the ir earnings and expenditures settled over them; payments for purchases abroad of capital goods, however, remained subject to spe- c if ic approval. Any excess balances had to be repa t r ia ted. March 20. The monetary agreement with Bel- g ium and Luxemburg of October 21, 1943 be- came fo rma l ly inoperative. Payments had already been placed on a convertible currency basis in 1958. March 28. A new protocol to the trade agree- ment between Benelux and Bulgaria was signed. It provided for fu r ther liberalization of imports. 355 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS June 2. General License to registered transit traders Nr. SL53 of May 20, 1969 went into effec t. It revoked and replaced General License Nr. SL36 of February 14, 1966. Its issuance did not involve any subs tan t ive changes in approval policy; ind iv idual licenses were no longer required for purchases and sales on domestic or foreign te rm inal ma rke ts, nor for the g ran t ing of suppliers' credit in excess of five years. A proce- dural change was that henceforth transit deals in strategic goods or scrap had to be approved by the CDIU ra ther than the Ne ther lands Bank. The ind iv idu al approval by the Netherlands Bank remained requ ired for transac t ions effected by unregistered traders and for sales to the U.S.S.R. that are not payable in convertible currency ( inc lud ing convertible gu i lde rs ); such sales for settlement in b i la te ral guilders would not nor- mally be approved. June 4. A new protocol to the trade agreement between Bene lux and Hunga ry was signed. It pro- vided for fu r th er liberalization of imports. July 1. The Netherlands Bank requested the au thor ized banks to reduce their net foreign asset position ( inc lud ing loans and advances) by 10 per cent (on average) du r ing the second half of 1969. The reductions were to be calculated either from the position at the end of May or the average position at the end of March and at the end of April; these positions could not be exceeded dur ing the second half of the year. July 31. A new trade agreement between Ben- elux and Japan was signed, providing for fu r ther l ibera l iza t ion of imports. October 1. An agreement between Benelux and Japan was signed in which Japan undertook to restrain exports of certain cotton textiles pre- viously restricted by import quotas. October 9. The Netherlands Bank and the authorized banks agreed on an amendment to the July 1 arrangement regarding the banks' net for- eign asset position. This position was to be decreased by f. 700 million (in four monthly ins ta l lmen ts, starting at the end of November) to the average level of the first nine months of 1968. October 17. General License Nr. SK54 went in to effect. It permitted firms that are not limited l iab i l i ty companies under Dutch law and that have their seat abroad to retransfer capital to nonresidents and to transfer liquidation proceeds to nonresidents. The license also allowed resi- dents to purchase a nonresident's share in such a firm. Previously, these transfers and purchases a lready were liberalized de jacto. October 21. The Netherlands Bank announced that w i th effect f rom November 1 the remaining restrictions would be abolished on local borrow- ing by nonresident-owned or nonresident- controlled companies to finance direct investments in the Netherlands. Previously, such local borrow- ing could not exceed the sum of imported share capital, plowed-back profits, and foreign long- term loans. November 1. Foreign Exchange Announce- ment No. 1/69 revoked Announcements Nos. 6/45 and 6/54. The effect was that the remaining exchange control provisions governing the removal of the seat of a juridical person or a limited liability company were rescinded. November 11. The October 9 arrangement was suspended and a new ceiling on the author- ized banks' net foreign asset position was intro- duced equal to 125 per cent of either the position at the end of May 1969 or the average position at the end of March and at the end of April. The repatriation arrangement would be reactivated, however, whenever the Netherlands Bank consid- ered this desirable. December 7. It was announced that on Janu- ary 1, 1970 many of the remaining import and export licensing requirements for industrial prod- ucts would be abolished in trade with Belgium and Luxembourg. 356 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Netherlands Antilles Guilder or Ant. f. 1.88585 = US$1. Exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at An t. f. 1.87 buy ing, and Ant. f. 1.89 selling, per US$1, plus a tax of An t. f. 0.015 per US$1 on sales of exchange, mak ing the effective selling rate for the U.S. dollar Ant. f. 1.905 per US$1. The selling rates for other currencies (ma in ly Netherlands guilders and pounds ster- ling) are set from time to time on the basis of the rates for the U.S. dollar in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide for- eign exchange for practically all current transac- tions. Prescription of Currency Payments may be made in any currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. Receipts may be accepted in any convertible currency except Netherlands Antilles guilders. For statistical pur- poses, all payments made by the authorized banks in foreign exchange must be reported to the exchange control. Imports and Import Payments Licenses are required only for imports of cer- tain luxu ry goods. These licenses must be obtained from the Foreign Exchange Control Board and are, as a rule, valid for three months, although in some cases they may be extended for a fu r ther three months. Payments for permitted imports may be made freely. Payments for invisibles Payments related to foreign trade, current pay- ments on account of services and short-term banking and credit facilities, and remittances for fam i ly maintenance, medical care, education, etc., may be made freely through the authorized banks. For payments representing interest on loans or net income from other investments, and for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, licenses are granted on application, subject to verification of the facts. W i thout special authorization, residents may not take out more than Ant. f. 200 a person in Ne ther lands banknotes or other foreign bank- notes. Nonresidents may take with them on depa r tu re foreign currency which they brought in on arr iva l. The export of Netherlands Antilles banknotes is limited to Ant. f. 100 a person, or Ant. f. 200 a person for those leaving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Company. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports require licenses, which are usually granted. Exchange proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized bank, with the exception of export proceeds received by industrial companies w i th nonresident status. Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring with them checks or let- ters of credit in Netherlands Antilles currency, and checks, letters of credit, or notes in foreign currency, in un l im i ted amounts. Each traveler may also bring in An t. f. 100 in Netherlands Antilles banknotes, or Ant. f. 200 when arriving by a ship of the Royal Dutch Steamship Com- pany. Capital Foreign investment in the Netherlands Antilles requires a license, which is, in general, granted if the investment is in the economic and social interest of the islands. New industrial companies relying primarily on exports may be granted non- resident status, which confers on the company concerned fu ll exemption from exchange control except in its transactions with residents of the Netherlands Antilles. Such exemption may also be granted to investment companies. Outward transfers may be made freely, but certain capital transactions by or on behalf of residents are restricted. Life insurance contracts 357 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NETHERLANDS ANTILLES between residents and foreign insu rance compa- nies for a m i n im um term of ten years are licensed freely up to an amount wh ich is fixed annua l ly, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1969, such contracts were permitted up to US$25,000 a person). Inves tment by residents in real estate s i tua ted abroad or in fore ign securities (i.e., securities issued ou ts ide the Ne the r lands Antilles or payable or op t iona l ly payab le in the currency of a coun try other th an the Ne the r lands An t i l les) requires a license. Inve s tmen ts by ind i- vidual residents in o f f ic ia l ly quoted foreign securi- ties (other th an shares in m u t u al f u n d s) are licensed freely up to amoun ts fixed annua l ly, depending on the foreign exchange position (in 1969, these inves tmen ts were pe rm i t ted up to US$10,000 a person a q u a r t e r ). In considering applications by other residents for such invest- ments, the Foreign Exchange Control Board takes in to account the mer i ts of each case and, in par t icu lar, the l im i ted oppo r tun i ty for domestic investment. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acqu ire gold coins in the Ne the r lands An t i l les for num isma t ic and inv e s tm ent purposes; au thor ized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with o ther res iden ts. Res iden ts other than the mone- ta ry au tho r i t i es and au thor ized indu s t r ial users are not allowed w i thout special permission to hold or acqu i re gold in any form other than jew- elry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry requ i re licenses issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board; such licenses are not normally g ran ted except for impor ts and exports of coins by au tho r i z ed bank s, and for imports and exports by or on beha lf of the mone tary authorities and i n d u s t r i al users. Changes during 1969 No s ign i f icant changes took place dur ing 1969. 358 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.99531 gram of fine gold per New Zealand Dollar or $NZ 1 = US$1.12. Official rates are fixed for transactions in sterling (telegraphic t r a n s f e r s ): $NZ 213.67 buying, and $NZ 214.92 selling, per <£ stg. 100. Except for the Au s t r a l i an dollar, the Fiji dollar, and the Western Samoa tal â, the rates for spot transac- tions in other currencies quoted by the New Zea- land t rad ing (commerc ia l) banks are based on the closing buy ing and selling rates of the pre- vious day in London. The rate for the U.S. dollar on December 31, 1969 was US$1.1259 buy ing, and US$ 1.1137 selling, per $NZ 1. The t rad ing banks are also permitted to con- clude w i th the ir customers forward exchange transactions for up to six months to cover genu- ine trade transac t ions. These forward transactions are at freely determined rates, except that rates for fo rwa rd sterling are the relative spot rates adjusted by approximately y10 of 1 per cent a month for the period of the contract. Cover for longer periods may be arranged in special cases if approved by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Reserve Bank of New Zealand under powers delegated to its Governor by the M in is ter of Finance. The Reserve Bank in tu rn has given dis- cretionary au tho r i ty to the trading banks in New Zealand to approve applications for certain remittances of funds overseas. The Bank also is in charge of the controls over foreign direct investment in New Zealand. Import and export licensing is the responsibility of the Customs Department and the Department of Industries and Commerce. Prescription of Currency New Zealand is a member of the Sterling Area l and has prescription of currency require- ments generally similar to those in force in other 1 The Sterling Area, as defined in New Zealand's ex- change control regulations, does not include New Zea- land itself. parts of the Sterling Area. Payments to and from other par ts of the Sterling Area may generally be made in any Sterling Area currency except New Zealand dollars; however, the proceeds of exports to the S ter l ing Area may be received in sterling, in any other currency (except New Zealand cur- rency) that is free ly exchangeable for sterling, or in New Zealand currency from an account with a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any coun t ry other than New Zealand or Rhodesia. Au tho r ized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in the Un i ted Kingdom or in any non-Sterling Area currency, and the proceeds of exports to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in a currency of any coun t ry outside the Sterling Area which is f ree ly exchangeable for sterling in an External Account, or in New Zealand currency from an account w i th a bank in New Zealand of a bank domiciled in any country outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia. The accounts in New Zea- land dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with countries in the currency area of the overseas bank concerned. Nonresident Accounts The Reserve Bank supervises certain specified accounts in New Zealand of residents of other coun tr ies ("controlled accounts"). The accounts in New Zealand dollars of overseas banks may be used for the settlement of transactions with other countries in the same currency areas. Banks in other parts of the Sterling Area generally do not ma in ta in accounts in New Zealand, and their remittances to and from New Zealand are made through the London offices of banks in New Zea- land. imports and Import Payments Imports are controlled through an Annual Import Licensing Schedule, which groups imports into d i f f e r ent categories to which various import procedures are applied. Over half of all imports are exempt f rom licensing. The import categories included in the Schedule for July 1, 1969-June 30, 359 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND 1970, are as follows: Category "E" (exemp t) inc ludes petroleum, lubr ica t ing oils, certain other raw materials, green coffee, cocoa beans, ju te, m a ny textiles, certain equ ipmen t, and printed books wh ich may be imported w i thout license. In add i t ion, ce r ta in imports of Aus tra l ian origin are exempt f rom licensing, irrespective of the licens- ing category to which they belong.2 A "Basic" category comprises items for which licenses are granted by reference to licenses issued or actual imports in a prev ious licensing period. Category "C" licenses are granted on an ind iv idual basis on such c r i te r ia as essentiality, ava i lab i l i ty, and price; for some "C" items, however, an initial allocation based on a previous period is provided, while applications for fu r th er licenses are consid- ered ind iv idua l ly. Category "D" includes items of a type also produced in New Zealand, for which licenses are issued only in exceptional circum- stances. In addition, licenses for small or "token" amoun ts are issued (to the extent of 105 per cent of 1968/69 licenses for the same goods on a value basis, and at 100 per cent where they are issued for a specific qu an t i ty of goods) for "D" items and for certain approved classes of goods, imports of which are generally not permitted under the Schedule. All licenses issued may be used for imports from any source at the appli- cant's discretion. Imports from Rhodesia and North Viet-Nam, however, are prohibited. Under a special arrangement in force since 1951, p r iva te ind iv idua ls owning certain overseas funds or securities held prior to June 16, 1966 (wh ich date has been brought forward on several occasions) are permitted to import under "no- remittance import licenses" goods for their own personal use for which licenses are normally given, and also goods of minor value in "D" cat- egories. Motorcars are the principal import under this arrangement. Applicants for "no-remittance import licenses" are required to produce evidence that an amount in qua l i fy ing funds equal to 50 per cent of the qua l i fy ing funds needed for the license has been repatriated to New Zealand through the bank ing system. Under an extension of this arrangement, 662/3 per cent of overseas funds certified by the Reserve Bank as eligible or 2 Under the terms of the New Zealand-Australia Free Trade Agreement that came into force on Janua ry 1, 1966. 360 securities held overseas prior to June 16, 1966 by pr iva te ind iv idua ls and business concerns may, on application, be used to finance commercial im- ports of completely knocked-down motorcars and other items on the Import Licensing Schedule, subject to the condition that qua l i fy ing funds equ iva lent to 50 per cent of the amount of the license applied for be repatriated through the b ank ing system. A degree of flexibility in the application of the Licensing Schedule is achieved through the use of Group Schemes ( for Industry and Interchange- ability Groups) that enable importers to transfer ind iv idu al entitlements to a composite license, instead of holding licenses for separate items, and to impo r t, up to the total amoun t, any item or combination of items in the group. Payments for Invisibles The commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for overseas payments up to established limits for many categories of invisibles, subject in appropriate cases to the submission of justifying documents. Payments beyond the established l im i ts, and for categories not included in the commercial banks' permitted list, require the spe- cific approval of the Reserve Bank; applications must be supported, where appropriate, by jus t i fy- ing documen ts. For nonbusiness travel to any part of the world except Rhodesia, there are travel allowances of up to $NZ 600 for each adu lt in any period of 12 months (the allowance being calculated on the basis of $NZ 20 a day for the first 14 days spent on land and $NZ 15 a day th e r e a f t e r) and of up to $NZ 420 for each child under 12 years of age (calculated on the basis of $NZ 14 a day for the first 14 days spent on land and $NZ 10.50 a day the rea f te r ). An additional amount of up to $NZ 1,200 ($NZ 840 for ch i ld ren) in foreign exchange is granted to persons who have not traveled abroad in the pre- ceding three years. Larger amounts of exchange for business and other similar travel are author- ized at the discretion of the Reserve Bank. In addition to the allocations above, banks in New Zealand and their branches or agents in London and Australia may sell non-Sterling Area curren- cies to New Zealand travelers against these per- sons' privately held Sterling Area funds; the total amount that may be so provided is the equivalent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of $NZ 2,000 a person ($NZ 1,400 a child) in any 12-month period. The rem i t tance abroad of dividends, interest, and prof i ts due to nonresidents is normally approved, subject to formal au then t ica t ion. This also applies to most contractual obligations incurred in the ord inary course of business, but each rem i t tance requires approval and new com- m i tmen ts such as royalty agreements with over- seas licensors require the prior consent of the Reserve Bank. Allocations for remittances on account of maintenance and/or gifts are made on a yearly basis w i thout discrimination. Remittances by rec- ognized New Zealand religious and charitable organ iza t ions or individuals operating as members of such an organization are not subject to any l im i ta t ion. Allocations to individuals for religious and charitable remittances, other than of the type specified above, are approved by the Reserve Bank up to $NZ 100 a remittor. Any resident may freely make personal remittances up to $NZ 20 a year to any destination overseas except Rhodesia. Travelers may take with them up to $NZ 10 in New Zealand currency, regardless of destination. Banknotes taken out may not be in denomina- tions larger than $NZ 2. Up to $NZ 4 of the per- mitted total may be in coins. Exports and Export Proceeds With minor exceptions, all exports require export licenses. These are issued by the Customs Department and ensure that the net export pro- ceeds will be surrendered to a t rad ing bank in accordance with the regulations (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). General export licenses valid until December 31, 1972 are issued to regular exporters. Payments for exports must be received w i th in six months from the date of shipment, with the exception that payment for goods consigned to Rhodesia must be received prior to the date of exportation. Exports gener- ally to Rhodesia and North Viet-Nam are prohib- ited. Certain items classed as strategic goods may only be exported when particular requirements have been met and subsequent to the issue of a permit to export. NEW ZEALAND Under an export bonus scheme, manufacturers subm i t t ing evidence of exportation may receive an add i t ional import license to the same value as the imported raw material or components incor- porated in the exported goods, subject to certain conditions being met; goods imported against the bonus license may be used for the manu fac tu re of goods for the home market or for export. Proceeds from Invisibles When remuneration for services provided or to be provided in New Zealand for overseas resi- dents by New Zealand residents (including corpo- rate bodies ord inar i ly resident in New Zealand) is paid in the form of foreign assets,3 such assets or the ir foreign currency proceeds must be sold to the New Zealand banking system; interest and dividends earned overseas are excluded from this surrender requ iremen t. If the remuneration is in a form other than foreign currency or a balance with an overseas bank, it must be converted into foreign currency before the surrender takes place. The disposal overseas by New Zealand resi- dents of foreign income from other invisibles such as interest and dividends is free of control except for non-Sterling Area currencies which, unless sold to a New Zealand bank, may not be disposed of w i thout the approval of the Reserve Bank, but such income is not eligible for sale in exchange for New Zealand currency, except that the foreign currency proceeds may be sold to a New Zealand bank. Travelers may bring into the country unlimited amoun ts of foreign banknotes and coins and up to $NZ 10 in local currency, of which $NZ 4 may be in coins while banknotes may be of $NZ 1 and $NZ 2 denominations. In all other cases, the importation of New Zealand currency is prohibited except with the consent of the Reserve Bank. 3 The k inds of remune ra t ion that are involved are (1) the payment or provision of any money; (2) the cred i t ing of any sum in any account at any bank or with any person; (3) the acqu is i t ion or provision of any se- curities, or any real or personal property, or of any r ight thereto or interest therein (whether actual or c o n t i n g e n t ); and (4) any benef i t, whether by way of do ing work or the performance of services, or other- wise, under any contract, agreement, scheme, or trans- action of any k ind (whe ther or not it is enforceable or intended to be enforceable by legal proceedings). 361 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND Capital With the exception of certain capital issues outside New Zealand and certain overseas bor- rowings by corporate bodies, there is no restric- tion on cap i tal receipts. However, to be eligible for repa t r ia t ion, capital must have been in i t ia l ly t rans fe r red to New Zealand through normal bank ing channe ls or in some other way approved by the au tho r i t ie s, e.g., as imports of plant or mach ine ry. Capital so t ran s fe r red, inc lud ing capi- tal ga ins and capitalized profits, may be repa- tr ia ted, a f ter the fo rmal approval of the Reserve Bank has been obtained. Overseas companies seeking to commence business in New Zealand requ ire the approval of the Reserve Bank. Capital issues ou ts ide New Zealand by compa- nies incorporated in New Zealand require the approval of the M in i s ter of Finance; overseas borrowing by such companies also requires prior approva l. New Zealand subs id iar ies and branches of overseas companies must obtain the consent of the M in is ter of Finance if they wish to borrow in New Zealand, whe ther for long-term or short-term finance. Trading banks do, however, have discre- tion to make ove rd ra f ts of up to $NZ 20,000 available to such companies. Nonresident persons or companies desiring to make a direct inves tment in a New Zealand company through the purchase or exchange of shares are required to register any o f fer made for such shares when- ever the inves tment would result in the control by the o f fe ror of 25 per cent or more of the New Zealand company's capital. W i th in two weeks of registration the M in is ter of Finance mu st n o t i fy the offeror as to whe ther or not the o f fer is to be considered f u r t h e r. If f u r t h er consideration is to be given, the M in is ter must give a final decision w i th in six weeks of the date of registration. Em igran ts to any destination other than Rho- desia may upon designation as nonresidents t ran s fer the equ iva lent of $NZ 25,000 for each fam i ly to the ir new country of residence. Any rema in ing assets in New Zealand are transferable in equal annual ins ta l lmen ts over the next four years, starting one year from depar ture; in prac- tice, no ins ta l lment is reduced below $NZ 25,000. For repatriates, the max imum initial transfer on depar ture is the equivalent of $NZ 25,000 or the amount originally brought in through the bank ing system, whichever is larger. 362 In i t i al rem i t tances up to $NZ 10,000 on account of legacies from the estate of a New Zea- land res ident are approved; any balance is trans- fe rab le in equal annual ins ta l lmen ts over the next four years, s ta r t ing one year a f ter the first remit- tance. In practice, no ins ta l lment is reduced below $NZ 10,000. All transac t ions in non-Sterling Area securities, whe ther w i th nonresidents or between residents, r equ i re the p r ior approval of the Reserve Bank. A New Zealand resident owning overseas Sterling Area secur i t ies is f ree to sell them to residents of the overseas Sterling Area (New Zealand being exc luded in th is con tex t) for overseas Sterling A rea cu r rency, wh ich may be reinvested in other overseas S ter l ing Area securities, surrendered, or re ta ined at the disposal of the New Zealand resi- den t. W i th l im i ted exceptions, sales of overseas S te r l ing Area securities by one New Zealand res ident to ano ther may be made only in exchange for other overseas Sterling Area securi- ties or for overseas Sterling Area currencies. Overseas Sterling Area securities that may be traded between New Zealand residents in exchange for New Zealand currency are those of overseas Sterling Area countries which were reg- istered in the names of New Zealand residents on June 16, 1966 and for which scrip or other docu- ments ev idenc ing t i t le were issued; the purchaser m u st lodge the share scrip w i th an authorized depository. These securities may also be sold for overseas Sterling Area cu r rency, in which case the proceeds must immed ia te ly be remitted to New Zea land th rough the bank ing system or rein- vested in overseas Sterling Area securities within three mon ths and the resu l t ing scrip deposited. The au tho r i t ies do not normally make exchange ava i lab le to pr iva te persons or firms for the pur- chase of overseas Sterling Area securities or other fore ign securities. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in New Zealand for num i sma t ic purposes. Since the revocation in 1954 of the Gold Acquisition Notice 1948 it is no longer necessary to offer gold to the Reserve Bank, and sales w i th in New Zealand do not requ i re Reserve Bank approval. However, imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry constituting the personal effects of a ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution traveler require licenses issued by the Customs Department; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. Commercial imports of gold jewelry are licensed restrictively. Changes during 1969 January 1. The Land Settlement Promotion and Land Acquisition Amendment Act entered into force. It imposed restrictions on the acquisi- tion of certain classes of land by persons who are not New Zealand citizens, by corporations incor- porated outside New Zealand, by New Zealand subsidiaries of foreign companies, and by New Zealand companies in which 25 per cent or more of the voting power is controlled by foreigners. January 1. Exports of beef and veal to the United States became subject to a vo lun ta ry ceil- ing. February 12. The proportion of overseas sales that exporters of lamb were required to direct to marke ts outside the United Kingdom was reduced f rom 15 per cent to 13.5 per cent. The proposed incentive p rem ium for companies reaching the diversification target was postponed until the 1969/70 season. March 26. The Import Licensing Schedule for the year ending June 30, 1970 was announced. Subject to review by the Emergency Protection Au thor i ty, goods valued at more than $NZ 10 million in terms of past annual imports were to be exempted f rom import licensing w i th effect from Ju ly 1, 1969. The total value of import licenses to be issued was to be 5 per cent higher than in the year ended June 30, 1969. June 26. The administration of the controls over foreign direct investments in New Zealand was assigned to the Reserve Bank. Previously, they were in part administered by the Treasury. June 27. The value of British Postal Money Orders which might be sold by the Post Office to any one person on any one day was increased from 5s. to 10s. In addition, private remittances up to $NZ 20 a year henceforth were permitted to be made with a m in imum of formality to any overseas destination other than Rhodesia, whether through the banks or the Post Office. NEW ZEALAND June 27. The basic travel allowance was raised from $NZ 14 to $NZ 20 a day for the first two weeks and from $NZ 12 to $NZ 15 a day after the first 14 days. For persons who had not been granted a travel allowance in the preceding three years, the over-all max imum of $NZ 1,400 was increased to $NZ 1,800, and for other persons the m ax imum amount allowed in any one period of 12 months was raised from $NZ 400 to $NZ 600. June 27. Restrictions were eased on the remit- tance of legacies and on emigrants' transfers. For legacies, the m ax imum in i t ial remittance to each bene f ic ia ry was increased from $NZ 2,000 to $NZ 10,000. Any balance would continue to be spread over a period of up to four years, but no annual ins ta l lment needed to be less than $NZ 10,000 (previously $NZ 2,000). In the case of emigrants' transfers, the max imum initial transfer for each fam i ly group was increased from $NZ 12,000 to $NZ 25,000. Any balance would con t inue to be spread over a period of up to four years, but no annual installment needed to be less than $NZ 25,000 (previously $NZ 10,000). July 1. Exemptions from import licensing on goods valued at about $NZ 10 million in terms of past annual imports went into effect, bringing the share of pr iva te imports freed from licensing to 55 per cent. A supplementary license allocation of $NZ 25 m i l l ion was announced for automo- biles. July 1. Applicants for "no-remittance import licenses" for motorcars and other goods intended for pr iva te or commercial use were required to produce evidence that an amount equal to 50 per cent of the qua l i fy ing f u n ds needed for the license had been repa tr ia ted to New Zealand through the bank ing system. Previously, the repatriation re- qu irement was 30 per cent. It would be raised to 60 per cent f rom Ju ly 1, 1970. July 22. A bill to amend the Companies Act 1955 was introduced. One of its purposes was to extend the existing provisions of the Act to pri- vate firms incorporated in New Zealand which are fore ign controlled. Banks would also be brought under the Act. This legislation would enter into force on Janua ry 1, 1971. September 5. New Zealand Government bonds purchased overseas af ter this date could not be 363 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NEW ZEALAND t rans fe r red from the United Kingdom to the New Zealand register. September 10. The time w i th in which foreign currency representing the net proceeds of the sale outside New Zealand of eligible Sterling Area securities mu st be reinvested in Sterling Area securities as an alternative to repa tr ia t ion was extended from one month to three months. October 2. A proposal was announced to exempt from Ju ly 1, 1970 goods valued at over $NZ 75 million from import licensing. This meant that approximately two thirds of private imports would be exempt in the next licensing period. November 1. The Land Settlement Promotion and Land Acquisition Amendment Act was amended. Restrictions on the purchase of land in New Zealand by foreign citizens and by overseas companies were eased. 364 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA Exchange Rale System The par value is 0.126953 gram of fine gold per Nicaraguan Cordoba or C$7.00 = US$1. The Central Bank deals with the commercial banks at C$7.00 per US$1, buying and selling, and sells exchange to the Government at C$7.0525 per US$1. All exchange transactions between commercial banks and the public take place at the official rates of C$7.00 buying, and C$7.0525 selling, per US$1. The sale of foreign exchange by commercial banks to the public is subject to a stamp tax of Vi of 1 per cent, which results in an effective selling rate of C$7.0875 per US$1. No tax or commission is charged on the buying rate. Nicaragua accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from Ju ly 20, 1964. Administration of Control The control system is administered by the Central Bank of Nicaragua, which by law has the sole au thor i ty to buy and sell foreign exchange. This au tho r i ty has been delegated to the commer- cial banks, and the Central Bank deals with the public only to the extent that it accepts deposits in foreign currency, and for purposes of monetary control. Certain agencies are also authorized to buy and sell foreign exchange, but they may sell exchange only for payments for invisibles. The Central Bank is responsible for classifying imports and de term in ing any advance deposits required; no advance deposit requirements are in force at present. Prescription of Currency There is no prescription of currency, but the customs authorities have the power to prohibit an export if the currency stipulated for payment is not readily convertible into U.S. dollars in inter- national markets. Payments to Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras in respect of trade and invisibles may be settled in Nicaraguan córdobas through the Cámara de Compensación Centroamericana, a clearinghouse established by the central banks of Central America to foster the process of economic integration of their coun- tries. Payments to Mexico may also be settled in Nicaraguan córdobas through the clearinghouse. The Central Bank does not accept banknotes of El Salvador and Gua tema la for compensation through the clearinghouse in excess of the follow- ing amoun ts a mon th: 125,000 Guatemalan quetzales and 200,000 Salvadoran colones. Imports and Import Payments All importers are required to be registered. There are two categories of registered importers: those who are permitted to import any kind of merchandise and those who may import only for their own indus t r ial needs. Imports from all countries, including the other Central American countries, must be consigned to persons or firms holding a commercial license from the Ministry of Economy. Import licenses are not required, but import transactions must be registered with the Central Bank by means of import declara- tions. All imports on credit and all prepayments for imports require approval by the Central Bank, which is normally granted only for capital goods and indus tr ial materials; when payment is not being made on sight of documents, an appli- cation for registration of the order must be sub- mitted to the Central Bank. Imports of certain types of footwear and some pharmaceutical and ve te r ina ry supplies are prohibited, except when produced in countries signatory to the General Treaty for Central American Economic Integra- tion. Payments for imports must be made with exchange purchased from banks.1 Payments are usually made by sight drafts. Letters of credit are mostly confined to imports from Japan. Central Bank approval is not required to open an import letter of credit. If payment is made by letter of credit, a 30 per cent margin deposit is required. The banks are not permitted to sell exchange for import payments in advance of the arrival of the 1 However, by virtue of Decree No. 1-L (effective March 1, 1963) the exchange proceeds of bananas, coco- nuts, copra, and coconut by-products exported through the ports of the region of Él Cabo and the depar tment of Zelaya may be used by the exporters to pay for com- modities not produced in N icaragua wh ich they them- selves import for the exclusive use of or consumption by the inhabitants of those areas. 365 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NICARAGUA documents. The Central Bank may authorize deferred payment or payment w i th f u n ds derived from properly au then t ica ted credits obtained abroad, provided that the imports are capital goods in tended for development or production or for basic works comp lemen tary to produc t ion; such permission is at present l im i ted ma in ly to indu s t r ial and ag r icu l tu ral mach ine ry. Imports are not released f rom customs unless evidence is sub- m i t ted e i ther th at payment or acceptance has been made th rough a bank (constancia de pago or constancia de aceptación) or th at the Cen tral Bank has approved impo r ta t ion on cred it te rms; th is r equ i r em ent does not apply to du ty - f r ee imports f rom member countries of the Central Amer ican Common Ma rke t. Most impo r ts o r ig in a t ing outside the Cen tral Ame r ican Common M a rk et are subject to an import surcharge of 30 per cent of the applicable import d u t y. Cer ta in commodities are subject to a compensatory consumption tax irrespective of the ir origin. Payments for invisibles Paymen ts for inv is ib les are not subject to license and may be made free ly. Persons purchas- ing fore ign cu r rency to m a ke paymen ts for inv is i- bles are requ i red, for statistical purposes, to com- plete a dec la ra t ion spec i fy ing the purpose for wh ich the fo re ign currency obtained will be used. Domestic and foreign cu r rency notes may be exported f ree ly. from inv is ib les is not required. Domestic and for- eign cu r rency notes may be imported freely. Capital Rem i t tances on account of foreign capital and capital t rans fe rs by residents and nonresidents may be made f ree ly under the general provisions of the Exchange Law of March 1, 1963 or under the Law on Foreign Inves tmen ts of February 26, 1955 (e f fec t ive March 11, 1955 ). Under the 1955 law, fore ign inves tmen ts approved by the Cen tral Bank and registered are gua ran teed the fo l low ing privileges: repa t r ia t ion of the registered cap i ta l; t r a n s f er of earn ings, profits, or interest on the cap i ta l; and re-exportation of goods imported for inve s tmen t. Commercial banks require the p r ior approval of the Cen tral Bank for all bor- row ing abroad. Gold Res iden ts may free ly and w i thout license pur- chase, hold, and sell gold in any form in Nicara- gua. Producers of gold sell their newly mined gold at f ree ma rket prices to buyers abroad. The Cen tral Bank purchases gold abroad for resale to domestic indu s t r i al and other users. Nonmonetary imports and exports of gold do not require import or export licenses but must be registered w i th the Central Bank and requ i re prior govern- ment au tho r iza t ion. Commemorative gold coins have been issued in 1967. Exports and Export Proceeds Changes during 1969 Expo rt licenses are not requ i red, but a declara- tion to the customs au tho r i t ies must be completed for s ta t is t ical purposes. The exchange proceeds of exports do not have to be su r rende red; however, they may not be used to pay for imports (exchange for wh ich must be purchased from a bank w i th the exception noted in footnote 1 ). For certain ag r icu l tu ral exports ( l ive cattle, beans, rice, corn, and co t tonseed ), the M i n i s t ry of Economy can fix m i n im um export prices or tem- porarily prohibit the ir export in order to avoid domestic shortages. Proceeds from invisibles The surrender of foreign exchange derived 366 February 28. Decree No. 3MEIC introduced a compensa tory consump t ion tax on imports origi- n a t i ng in coun tr ies of the Central American Common Ma rke t. Exempt were listed agricultural and livestock products, specified essential com- modities, and products of industries covered by the integration regime for Central American industries. March 26. Decree No. 4MEIC went into force specifying how the compensatory consumption tax was to be applied. It was levied at varying rates (mostly 5-50 per cent ad va lo rem) on speci- fied listed commodities, whether locally produced or impor ted. On imports, the tax was applied irrespective of the country of origin of the goods. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution For some of the specified goods, the new tax replaced the internal consumption taxes provided for by the Protocol of San José. (Certain listed commodities were on April 8 exempted by Decree No. 5MEIC, and the rates of tax for some of the listed commodities were modified on June 14 and July 18 by Decrees Nos. 11MEIC and 16MEIC.) NICARAGUA 367 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER ' Exchange System No par value for the cu r rency of Niger has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is off ic ia l ly main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, g iv ing the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange ma rket ra te for the currency concerned, and include a commission. W i th the exception of those relating to gold, Niger's exchange control measures do not apply to relations w i th (1) France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West A f r i c an Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, M a u r i t a n i a, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Repub l ic, and M a l i ). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made f ree ly. All other countries, except Niger i tse l f, are considered fore ign countries, and in pr inc ip le financial relations only w i th foreign coun tr ies are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of ce r ta in cap i tal controls, however, the coun tr ies listed above are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is te red by the Exter- nal Finance Division in the M in is t ry of Finance and Sahara and Nomad Affairs which also super- 1 In view of changes that took place ear ly in 1970 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), th is su rv ey presents the position on Ap r il 7, 1970. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the B anque Cen tra le des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivo ry Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 368 vises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Niger, and inward and outward investment. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either direct or through the in termed iary of the banks and the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, any information necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun- tries must be effected through the BCEAO or authorized banks. Import and export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Economic A f fa i rs in the M in i s t ry of Economic A f fa i rs, Commerce, and Indu s t ry, except those for gold, which are granted by the Ministry of Finance and Sahara and Nomad Affa irs. Import certificates for liber- alized commodities are made out by the importer himself and, when imports are payable prior to importation, are first approved by the External Finance Division. Prescription of Currency Niger is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account with the French Treas- u ry; settlements w i th France (including its Over- seas Depa r tmen ts and Territories, except that of the A f a rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French f rancs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other coun- tries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries —provided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts Francs. in Nonresident Accounts The regulations per ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bankno tes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution imports and import Payments All imports of commodities originating in Por- tugal or its overseas provinces, Rhodesia, or South Afr ica are prohibited. The import f rom any source of rice, wheat flour, and certain foot- wear and plastic goods requires prior authoriza- tion, irrespective of whether an import license or import certificate is also required. A similar regime applies to imports of sugar, except f rom member countries of the Common Organ iza t ion of Afr ican and Malagasy States, and to imports of matches, except from countries of the West A f r ican Customs Union. Imports from France and the Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area of all goods other than those men t ioned may be made free ly w i thout a license or cer t if ica te. Imports from other countries requ ire e i ther a license or an import certificate. Imports of v i r tua l ly all goods from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, and EEC countries, many goods from other former OEEC countries and their past or present dependent territories, and a smaller number of items from the United States and Canada are liberalized and require only an import cer t if ica te. Imports of nonliberalized goods from non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are made under global quotas in accordance w i th an annual program that is deter- mined each year by the M in is try of Economic A f fa i r s, Commerce, and Indus try; the program generally reflects the requirements indicated by importers and is established in m u t u al agreement w i th in a jo int French-Niger Committee. Licenses for pr in ted or unp r in ted cotton fabrics and for j u te bags, however, are issued in proportion to duly substantiated imports from France of a speci- fied quantity of these goods. Goods not subject to quan t i ta t ive restriction may be imported on an import certificate, i.e., a declaration made out by the importer. The Société Na t iona le de Commerce et de Pro- duction du Niger (COPRON IGER) has a monopoly over the import of specified commodities. These include whea t, wheat flour, green tea, and cer ta in textiles. All import transac t ions w i th fore ign countries mu st be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when valued at more than CFAF 25,000 c.i.f. Niger border. The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the neces- sary exchange, provided that the authorized bank NIGER is satisfied that the import transaction is genuine and in accordance w i th the import title. Import certificates requ i re the visa of the External F inance Division if the goods are payable before importation. Payments for invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to the approval of the External Finance Division. Pay- men ts for invisibles related to trade are permitted f ree ly when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accru ing to nonresidents in the fo rm of profits, dividends, and royalties are also perm i t ted free ly when the basic transaction has been approved. Residents traveling to coun- tries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person; any foreign exchange in excess of CFAF 5,000 rema in ing a f ter re tu rn to Niger must be surrendered. The transfer of the fu ll salary of a foreigner working in Niger is per- mitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the t rans fer takes place w i th in three months of the pay period. Resident travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bankno tes issued by other Operations Account coun t r ies. Resident travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes bu t, when traveling to a French Franc Area coun t ry ou ts ide the West A f r ican Monetary Union must declare these if they exceed CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may freely take out up to CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries, and foreign notes up to the amount declared upon entry, or, if no declaration was made, up to CFAF 25,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. With the exception of peanu ts, peanut oil, peanut 369 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER cakes, sisal, cotton, cottonseed, and cer ta in imported commodities, all of wh ich requ i re a license, exports to France and the Ope ra t ions Account coun t r ies in the French Franc Area may be made free ly. Exports to all o ther coun tr ies of domestic products and imported commod i t ies requ i re a license and an exchange comm i tm en t. Export proceeds received in cu r renc ies o ther th an those of France or ano ther Opera t ions Account coun try mu st be collected and surrendered w i t h in two mon ths of the date on which payment fa l ls due. All export transac t ions w i th foreign coun t r ies must be domiciled w i th an au tho r ized b ank when their total va lue exceeds CFAF 100,000. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds f rom t ransac t ions in inv is ib les w i th France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun t r ies in the French Franc Area may be re ta ined. A ll amoun ts due f rom res iden ts of o ther coun t r ies in respect of services, and all income earned in those coun t r ies f rom fo re ign assets, must be collected and surrendered w i t h in two mon ths of the due date or the date of receipt. Res ident and non res ident trave lers may b r ing in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or a bank of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign bankno tes and coins (except gold co in s ). Residents mu st surrender w i th in eight days of en t ry any foreign currency in excess of CFAF 5,000. Capital Capital movemen ts between Niger and France, Monaco, and other Opera t ions Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; cap i tal t ran s fe rs to a ll o ther coun t r ies requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but cap i tal receipts f rom such coun t r ies are perm i t ted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable) are m a in t a in ed over borrowing abroad, over inwa rd and ou tward inves tmen t, and over the issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale of foreign securi- ties in Niger; these controls relate to the trans- actions themselves, not to paymen ts or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities 370 in Niger, these control measures do not apply to relations w i th France and its Overseas Depart- men ts and Territories (except the French Territory of the A f a rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member coun tr ies of the West A f r ican Monetary Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l ink ed w i th the French Treasury by an Opera t ions Account. Special controls are main- ta ined also over the soliciting of f u n ds for deposit w i th fore ign pr iva te persons and fore ign firms and in s t i tu t ion s, and over all pub l ic i ty aimed at plac- ing f u n ds abroad or at subscr ib ing to real estate b u i l d i ng opera t ions abroad; these special controls do app ly to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All inve s tment abroad by residents of Niger requ ires p r ior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of F inance .3 Foreign direct inves tmen ts in N i g e r4 mu st be declared to the M in is ter of Finance before they are made. The M in is ter has a period of two mon ths f rom receipt of the declaration d u r i ng wh ich he may request the postponement of the projects subm i t ted to h im. The fu ll or par- tial l iqu ida t ion of investments, whe ther direct or not, also requ ires prior dec lara t ion. Both the m a k i ng and the l iqu ida t ion of investments, whe ther these are Nigérien investments abroad or fo re ign inve s tmen ts in Niger, must be reported to the M in i s t er of Finance w i th in 20 days fo l low ing each ope ra t ion. Direct inves tmen ts are def ined as inve s tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or en terpr ise. Mere pa r t ic ipa t ion is not considered as d irect inve s tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of fo re ign securities in Niger requires prior au tho r i z a t ion by the M in is ter of Finance. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1 ) loans backed by a guaran tee from the Nigérien Government, and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issuing or offer ing for sale in Niger has previously been authorized. 3 In c lud ing those made th rough the i n t e rm e d i a ry of foreign companies th at are d i rec t ly or ind i rec t ly con- t ro l led by persons in N iger and those made by branches or subs id ia r ies abroad of companies in N ige r. 4 I n c l u d i ng those made by companies in N iger th at are d i rec t ly or i n d i r e c t ly under fo re ign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Niger of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this au thor iza t ion: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior dec- laration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; and (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount ou ts tand ing of these loans, including the new bor- rowing, does not exceed CFAF 2 m i l l ion for any one borrower. The repayment of any foreign bor- rowing, whether authorized or exempt from au tho r iza t ion, requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement are loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Foreign investments in Niger may be granted certain guarantees and facilities under the Invest- ment Code of Ju ly 31, 1968 (Decree No. 68- 24 /PRN ). Existing benefits accorded under the previous Investment Code (Law No. 61-21 of July 12, 1961) have been ma in ta ined. The Investment Code of Ju ly 12, 1961 provided for preferen t ial status that could be granted to new enterprises in indu s t ry, agriculture, real estate, and, in some cases, commerce, when such invest- ments were deemed to be of value to na t ional development. Three preferential regimes were established: A, B, and C. The most liberal bene- fits were offered by Régime C, which was applica- ble to enterprises or industries of particular importance for the implementation of Niger's economic and social development plan. This regime was characterized by the signing of a found ing agreement (convention d'établissement) stipulating the mu tual rights and obligations of the State and the enterprise. This agreement, with a validity of 10 to 20 years, provided guarantees of stability w i th respect to legal, economic, finan- cial, and tax matters. Régimes A and B could grant many of the same benefits but for a shorter period, w i th a max imum of 10 years. Firms cov- ered by the 1961 Investment Code must under- take not to repatriate within a period of 3 years the foreign capital invested in them. NIGER The new Investment Code provides for privi- leged or regular (de droit commun) treatment. The latter provides, for both new and existing enterprises, assurances with respect to indemnities in the event of nationalization, and concerning nondiscrimination between Nigérien nationals and foreign nationals; tax exemptions will be granted to new investments. Privileged trea tment is reserved for enterprises deemed to be of special importance to national economic development and fa l l ing w i th in specified categories of industrial activities. Such treatment may be accorded under two d ifferent regimes, the approval regime (régime d'agrément) and the agreement regime (régime conventionnel). Gold Residents are free to hold gold in any form in Niger. They are also free to acquire and dispose of gold in any form in Niger. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requ irement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles con- taining a minor quantity of gold (such as gold- filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams when carried by a traveler. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1969 January 11. Decree No. 69-35 provided regu- lations for the implementation of Law No. 68-24, the new Investment Law. January 16. Circular No. 1 established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. January 16. Circular No. 2 established proce- dures for the domiciliation of import transactions and for payments for imports. January 16. Circular No. 3 established proce- dures for the domiciliation of export transactions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. 371 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER January 28. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis- à-vis foreign countries in CFA f rancs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO. January 30. The BCEAO, by Ins t ruc t ion No. 1 to Banks, requested the banks to provide mon th ly da ta on their foreign positions. For this purpose, all countries other than Niger were to be considered foreign countries. February 6. The M in is try of Finance issued Notice No. 1 to the authorized banks, concerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign dossiers for securities. The former were def ined as com- prising accounts in CFA francs, French francs, or the cu r rency of any in s t i tu te of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account with the French Treasury. W i th m inor exceptions, all ove rd ra f ts on such accounts and all advances to nonresidents required approval. February 17. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 2 to Banks, concerning forward l iab i l i t ies in foreign currencies. February 17. Circular No. 4 established the terms on wh ich foreign exchange could be pur- chased fo rwa rd. This was only allowed for import payments; the fac i l i ty was limited to specified commodities, either for one mon th or for three months, and could not be renewed. February 26. Notice to Importers No. 1 pre- scribed a license sans devises for imports paid for w i th fo re ign currency in any other coun t ry of the French Franc Area. March 20. Order No. 88/MF-SFE revoked Order No. 382/MF-SFE of December 26, 1968 and established new rules for the import and export of foreign and domestic means of payment by travelers. March 22. Notice No. 2 to Banks was issued concerning foreign exchange allocations for travel abroad. The allocation for tour ist travel was the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 a person a calendar year. That for business travel and off ic ial travel was subject to individual authorization by the External Finance Division. April 15. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 3 to Banks, concerning quarterly reports on their external position. 372 April 22. Decree No. 69-85 made the importa- tion of a number of commodities (canned milk, green tea, certain beet and cane sugar, cigarettes, crude sa l t, pa in ts, specified woven material, blan- kets of cotton, and ju te bags for pack ing) the monopoly of the Société Nationale de Commerce et de Production du Niger (CO PRON IGER ). April 29. Order No. 69-87/MAECI added flour of rye and barley to the commodities for which COPRON IGER has the import monopoly. May 3. Order No. 14/MAECI set out new adm in is t ra t ive procedures applicable to imports of certain basic consumer goods by COPRON IGER. June 7. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 4 to Banks, which supplemented the Instructions issued previously. June 11. Notice No. 3 to Banks was issued concerning the allocation of foreign currency to persons trave l ing to foreign countries. June 11. Notice No. 4 to Banks was issued concerning the transportation by nonresident travelers of means of paymen t. Nonresidents sub- m i t t ing their en try declaration could repurchase fo re ign bankno tes up to CFAF 25,000. July 11. Notice to Importers No. 3 gave COPRON IGER a monopoly over imports of addi- tional types of textiles. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, the Mala- gasy franc, and the Mali franc remained unchanged. November 14. Notice No. 5 to authorized banks was issued concerning suspense accounts (Comptes d'attente) and suspense dossiers for nonresidents. November 14. Circular No. 5 was issued con- cerning the opening of foreign accounts and for- eign security dossiers for persons who, having been residents, become nonresidents. November 14. Circular No. 6 was issued con- cerning reporting requirements for authorized banks w i th respect to payments received from foreign countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution December 1. Circular No. 7 summarized the types of payment for which the approval author- ity had been delegated to authorized banks. December 5. Decree No. 69-162/MF granted Japanese commodities the benefit of the m in imum import t a r i f f. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1970: January 8. Decree No. 70-5/MF was issued concerning certain financial transactions with for- eign countries. For purposes of this Decree, for- eign countries were defined as all countries other than Niger. It revoked Decree No. 67-161 of November 30, 1967 and its amendments (Decree No. 68-15 of Janua ry 17, 1968 and Decree No. 68-74 of June 21, 1968). The prior authorization of the Minister of Finance was required fo r: (1) the issuing, adver- tising, or sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign public organizations or companies, and international institutions; (2) the soliciting in any way of f u n ds for deposit with foreign pr iva te persons and foreign firms or institutions; (3) any publicity with a view to the placing of funds abroad or subscribing to real estate building operations abroad. Exempt from special or gen- eral permission, however, were the various activi- ties mentioned above when relating to loans guar- anteed by the Nigérien Government or relating to shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Niger had previously been authorized. The import and export of gold required the prior approval of the Minister of Finance. Exempt were (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu fac tu red articles con ta in ing a minor quan t i ty of gold; and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a com- bined weight of 500 grams. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, or Operations Account countries outside the West African Monetary Union were required to declare to the customs the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were carrying if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. NIGER January 23. Decree No. 70-23 was issued con- cerning certain investment and borrowing trans- actions w i th foreign countries. It modified the capital controls introduced by Decree No. 67-161 of November 30, 1967. For purposes of invest- ment and borrowing transactions, foreign coun- tries continued to be defined as in Decree No. 68-159 of December 24, 1968, i.e., as countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All payments received from foreign countries by an authorized bank for the account of a resident had to be declared to the Minister of Finance. All payments and receipts relating to the transactions mentioned below had to be channeled through authorized banks. Henceforth all investments made abroad by residents required the prior authorization of the Minister; previously, direct investments required only prior declaration to the Minister, after which the la t ter had two months to request postpone- men t. The l iqu ida t ion of investments abroad con- t inued to be subject to prior declaration. These provisions also applied to the mak ing and liqui- dation of investments abroad by nonresident companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Niger or so controlled by branches abroad of residents. Direct investment in Niger remained subject to prior declaration, a f ter which the Minister could dur ing a two-month period request postponement. The proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion by a nonresident of direct investment or other investments could be t rans fe r red abroad af ter submission of sup- porting documents to the Minister. Borrowing abroad remained subject to prior authorization by the Minister. The exemptions from this requirement were redefined. The report- ing requirements for amounts borrowed or repaid were revised. The repayment of any foreign bor- rowing, whe ther authorized or exempt from authorization, required the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement were loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. March 27. Decree No. 70-105 was issued con- cerning certain financial settlements between Niger and Nigeria. 373 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGER April 4. Order No. 131 amended Order No. 88 of March 20,1969. New def in i t ions were provided of "resident travelers" and "nonresident travelers," and the conditions were specified under wh ich the latter could acquire foreign currency du r ing the ir stay in Niger and take it out upon depa r tu re. April 7. Circular No. 8 was issued concerning the app l ica t ion of Decree No. 70-23. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt f rom prior au tho r iza t ion as fo l lows: ( 1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans mee t ing the following cond i t ions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immed ia te ly by sale of fore ign currency on the exchange ma rket or by deb it to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the a n n u al inter- est rate mu st not exceed the no rmal m a rk et ra te; (c) the total amount of loans exempt f rom approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repa id, inc lud ing the new transaction, must not exceed CFAF 2 m i l l ion; (d) the con- t ract or exchange of le t ters must be subm i t ted to the authorized bank. The repayment of loans not cons t i tu t ing a d irect inv e s tm ent requ ired the special au tho r iza- tion of the M in is ter of Finance if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt f rom special au tho r iza t ion. The repayment of all loans con- tracted before the publication of Decree No. 70-23 also required such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the ex tens ion of existing borrowings and about advance repayment. 374 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.48828 grams of fine gold per Nigerian Pound or <£N 1 = US$2.80. The Central Bank of Nigeria quotes rates at which it is prepared to deal in sterling and U.S. dollars with au thor ized dealers and the public; such deal- ings are for approved transactions and are on a spot basis only. The Central Bank's rates for sterling are determined by the Bank from time to time. The rates for the U.S. dollar are determined on the basis of the Central Bank's preva i l ing rate for sterling against the Nigerian pound. The Cen- tral Bank is prepared to quote rates to authorized dealers and its customers for specific transactions on a spot basis only for the currency of any other Sterling Area territory except South Africa and South-West Afr ica or for any specified currency.1 For approved transactions authorized dealers may deal at ma rket rates, spot or forward, between themselves, with authorized banks in the Sterling Area, and with customers. Authorized dealers may enter freely into contracts w i th resi- dents of Nigeria for the purchase or sale of any foreign currency 2 except Rhodesian pounds for delivery at a fu tu re date, provided that the trans- action is one that would be acceptable on a spot basis (see above) and that the transaction relates to a firm commercial contract for the import or export of goods or to fre ight charges on a specific shipment of goods, and is expressed as payable in a foreign cu r rency. Forward contracts related to imports must not extend more than six months beyond the expiration date of the import license, or beyond the date of import when the license has no expiration date or when no license is required. Forward contracts related to exports may cover any necessary period, provided that payment for the goods is to be received w i th in six months of shipment, or w i th in such longer period as may have been authorized. 1 The specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, pounds sterling, and U.S. dollars. 2 Foreign currencies are defined as all currencies other than the Nigerian pound. Un t il fu r th er notice, all export proceeds in for- eign cu r renc ie s2 (except the proceeds of oil expor ts) are centralized with the Central Bank, which supplies the authorized banks with foreign exchange for approved payments. Administration of Control The Federal M in i s t ry of Finance is responsible for basic exchange control policy and, in princi- ple, for approving applications for the following: the payment of sh ipp ing and marine insurance dues; the repa tr ia t ion of capital and transfer of profits to any coun try outside Nigeria; the raising of external loans, including repayment of such loans; borrowing in Nigeria by companies con- trolled d irec t ly or indirectly from outside Nigeria; the g ran t ing of "approved status" to nonresident inves tmen ts in Nigeria; and any dealings in for- eign securities. The Central Bank of Nigeria is the pr inc ipal adm in is tra tor of exchange con- trol. Most commercial banks and acceptance houses are authorized by the M in is try of Finance to deal in foreign currencies and to approve applications in accordance with instructions issued by the Central Bank. Any application that does not fa ll w i th in the scope of the authority of these authorized dealers must be submitted to the Central Bank, or, for the transactions mentioned above, to the M in is t ry of Finance. The adm in is t ra t ion of trade controls is carried out by the Federal Ministry of Trade and the Central Bank. Prescription of Currency Nigeria is a member of the Sterling Area,3 but paymen ts to Sterling Area countries are subject to the same approval requirements that are appli- cable to settlements with other foreign countries. Authorized payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in Nigerian pounds to an External Account in N iger ia, in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any non-Sterling Area 3 Nigeria's de f in i t ion for exchange control purposes of the Sterling Area does not include South Africa or South-West Africa. 375 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA currency. Authorized payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in Nigerian pounds to a Scheduled Territories Account in Nigeria, or in sterling. The proceeds of exports to foreign countries except Rhodesia may be received in N ige r ian pounds f rom an External Account or a Scheduled Territories Account, or in a specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements w i th Rhodesia; most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Nigerian pounds of persons resi- dent outside Nigeria are divided into three cate- gories: Scheduled Territories Accounts, main- tained for persons permanently resident in a foreign country w i th in the Sterling Area; Rhode- sia Accounts, ma in ta ined for residents of Rhode- sia; and External Accounts, maintained for resi- dents of all other countries. Scheduled Territories Accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments by residents of Nigeria, with transfers from other Scheduled Ter- ritories Accounts and from External Accounts, and, subject to compliance with existing regula- tions, w i th proceeds from sales of all currencies except Nigerian pounds or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for paymen ts to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other Scheduled Terri- tories Accounts and, subject to prior approval, to External Accounts, and for purchases of sterling or other Sterling Area currencies for approved purposes. Rhodesia Accounts have been blocked since July 3, 1969. External Accounts may be credited with authorized payments by residents of Nigeria to residents of foreign countries other than Rhode- sia, with transfers from other External Accounts and from Scheduled Territories Accounts, and with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. They may be debited for payments to residents of Nigeria, for transfers to other Exter- nal Accounts and to Scheduled Territories Accounts, and for purchases of foreign currencies other than Sterling Area currencies or Rhodesian pounds. 376 Imports and Import Payments All importers must be registered. All imports from Rhodesia, South Africa, and South-West Africa are prohibited, as is the import from all countries of about 20 commodities for health, safety, moral, or religious reasons; the import of about 20 other commodities or groups of com- modities is also prohibited unless specific condi- tions have been complied with and these condi- tions are specified in the licenses authorizing such imports. Ind iv idual import licenses are required for the following: ( 1) All imports from Albania, mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, North Korea, Macao, Ruman ia, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam; and ( 2) Most goods f rom other sources, including products the export of which is subject to Marketing Board control (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, be low ). Imports neither prohibited nor subject to specific licensing may be imported under open general license. Authorized dealers may grant foreign exchange for all authorized imports, but certain import payments are subject to delay. Payment in advance of shipment requires the approval of the Central Bank. The Central Bank sells foreign exchange in respect of import payments to author- ized dealers against formal letters of request supported by approved exchange control forms and certified bills of entry and invoices; certain delays may occur before the Central Bank makes the exchange available. A "national reconstruction surcharge" of ll/i per cent of the applicable import du ty is levied on virtually all imports. Payments for Invisibles Most payments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Pay- ments for invisibles to residents of other countries are subject to individual approval; for some cate- gories of invisibles this is granted up to specified limits by the authorized dealers. Applications for payments that cannot be approved by the author- ized dealers are forwarded to the Central Bank, which gives approval for some types of payment, provided that tax and other requirements have been satisfied. However, as mentioned above, certain applications require approval from the Ministry of Finance. Also, certain delays may occur in the granting of the exchange. All in- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution surance other than that for which facilities do not exist in Nigeria must be taken out with a company in Nigeria and all insurance companies operating in the country must reinsure with the Na t ional Insurance Corporation. Sixty per cent of ship charter paymen ts for export shipments must be settled in local currency. Residents are entitled to a basic travel allowance of «£N 100 a year a person for travel outside Afr ica ( < £N 50 a year for ch i ldren, subject to a limit of <£N 250 for any one fam i ly u n i t ). For- eign exchange for this purpose may be sold to residents by authorized dealers. In add i t ion, travel agents and shipping and airline companies in Nigeria may sell transportation tickets for any- where in the world, except Rhodesia, aga inst payment in Nigerian currency. The cost of services rendered by travel agents in respect of hotel accommodation, meals en route, etc., must be covered from the basic travel allowance. There is a nom inal allowance of <£N 1 a person a year for travel within Afr ica, which may be increased by the Central Bank according to the mer i ts of the application. Foreign nationals residing in Nigeria may purchase annua l ly foreign currency up to 50 per cent of their gross taxable earnings in N iger ia for all personal remittances, inc lud ing the basic travel allowance, up to a m ax imum of <£N 3,500 a person in any financial year; t ran s fe rs of man- agement fees and directors' fees, however, are limited to <£N 1,000 a person a year. Persons going abroad are permitted to take with them £,50 in sterling. Residents are per- mitted to take out the equ iva lent of their basic travel allowance of <£N 100 in foreign currency notes; nonresident visitors may take out <£50 in sterling and any other foreign currency notes that were declared upon entry. The export of N iger ian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most locally produced goods may be exported freely, under open general license, to any other country except South Africa and South-West Africa (exports to these countries require individual licenses). Individual export licenses are required for exports of cigarettes and tobacco, columbite, tin and by-products of tin, tantalite, unrefined NIGERIA gold, petroleum products, goods made wholly or partly of imported components, and products subject to control by the Marketing Board (e.g., cocoa, cotton, cottonseed, benniseed, groundnuts, groundnut oil, palm oil, and palm ke rne ls ). The export of certain goods (Afr ican antiquities or works of art produced before 1918, objects that are being used or have been used in African cere- monies) is prohibited, except under prescribed conditions. The export of explosives, other than indus t r ial explosives, and of certain foods is pro- h ib i ted. Exports of petroleum and petroleum products are subject to special arrangements. Export proceeds must be surrendered to an authorized dealer in Nigeria, the United King- dom, or the United States w i th in six months from the day of sh ipmen t .4 For all exports, including those destined for a coun try in the Sterling Area, the exporter is required to submit an exchange control declaration at the time of shipment; the requ i rement also applies to exports of hydrocar- bon oils to the Sterling Area. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 1) must be offered for sale to an au thor ized dealer. Persons entering Nigeria may freely b r ing in foreign banknotes. The import of N iger ian currency notes and coins is prohibited. Capital Except for the purpose of financing imports or exports, permission from the M in is t ry of Finance is required for any individual, firm, company, or branch resident in Nigeria to borrow in any coun t ry outside Nigeria. Official agencies and state-controlled corporations require the prior approval of the Ministry of Finance for any for- eign borrowing. The permission of the Ministry of Finance is also required for borrowing in Nigeria ( 1) by any nonresident individual or company, and ( 2) by any company registered in Nigeria (other than a b a n k) which is controlled directly or ind irec t ly f rom outside Nigeria. How- ever, to enable entities mentioned under (2) to meet temporary shortages of funds, licensed 4 Reduced to three mon ths w i th e f fect f rom Janua ry 16, 1970. 377 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA banks in Nigeria may grant loans or overdraf ts for periods not exceeding 14 days, or may increase the amount of any advance or ove rd ra ft by the amount of loan interest or bank charges payable thereon. General permission is also given for any loan, bank overdraf t, or other credit facility to be arranged to finance Nigerian imports or exports of goods. Residents of Nigeria may not deal in foreign currency securities nor may they buy from or sell to nonresidents of Nigeria any security payable in Nigerian pounds w i thout the permission of the Ministry of Finance. The capital proceeds of securities registered in Nigeria and owned by nonres iden ts may be col- lected and negotiated through au tho r ized dealers, provided that the prior permission of the M in is try of Finance is obtained. Nonresidents of the Sterling Area in tend ing to make direct inves tmen ts in N iger ia are inv i ted to apply to the M in i s t ry of Finance for "approved status," the gran t ing of which means that sympa- thetic consideration will be given to f u t u re requests to repatriate the capital. The g ran t ing of "approved status" is not applicable to the pur- chase of shares on the stock exchange in Nigeria unless th is forms an integral pa rt of the approved investment project. Fur thermore, th is s ta tus is not granted when in t e rn a l ly generated f u n ds f rom profits, dividends, rents, or locally raised loans or bank credit are invested in local enterprises. All foreign-owned compan ies and commercial banks operating in Nigeria must be incorporated in Nigeria. The repa tr ia t ion of foreign capital requ ires approval from the M in i s t ry of Finance. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Nigeria for num isma t ic purposes. Residents other than the monetary au thor i t ies, producers of gold, and authorized indus t r ial users are not allowed w i thout special permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry requ ire specific licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for im- ports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary 378 au tho r i t ie s, producers of gold, and indus tr ial users. Imports of gold coins and of gold and silver bu l l ion are du ty free when made by the Cen tral Bank for mone tary purposes; otherwise, such imports are subject to customs du ty at 100 per cent ad valorem. Changes during 1969 February 13. The Bank ing Decree, 1969 requ i red all commerc ial banks opera t ing in the coun t ry to be incorporated in Nigeria. The decree came in to effect on August 7. April 29. Transfers of employers' con t r ibu t ions to the ir employees' pension and prov ident f u n ds were aga in perm i t ted. They had been suspended since 1967. April 29. Transfers of management fees and directors' fees were l im i ted to <£N 1,000 a person a year. April 30. The basic travel allowance ceased to be gran ted for travel in A f r ica. For such trave l, a nom inal allowance of <£N 1 a person a year was subs t i tu ted. May 8. The Customs Tar iff (Duties and Exemp t ions) (No. 2) Order, 1969, increased many rates of import d u ty and export du ty. May 8. V i r tua l ly all imports required a specific import license. May 8. It was announced that the backlog of prof it and d iv idend remittances would gradually be cleared. June 9. Legal Notice No. 32 established an open general license for imports of g if ts, samples, etc., f rom any coun try (Open General License (all coun tr ies) No. 1 ). June 26. Legal Notice No. 33 established an open general license for imports of additional commodities from any coun try (Open General License (a ll countries) No. 2 ). Commodities covered were those of June 9 and some other commodities. The general license applied to imports from any coun try other than 13 specified countries; these were A lban ia, mainland China, Eastern Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, North Korea, Macao, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, South Africa, South-West Africa, Tibet, and North Viet-Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NIGERIA June 29. A National Insurance Corporation was established. All insurance companies opérât- ing in Nigeria were required to reinsure with the Corporation from October 1, 1969. r , -, AH T ^I • • A .i i j July 3. All Rhodesia Accounts were blocked. . ~ ~ r , . . . August 3. Transfers of buy ing commissions charged to Nigerian importers were again per- mitted, but not more than 4 per cent of the f.o.b. value. r September 4. A trade agreement was concluded w¡th Niger, November 27. The Petroleum Decree 1969 was promulgated. It laid down certain require- r o i ments for companies prospecting for oil and provided for price control over any petroleum products sold in Nigeria. 379 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution• Exchange Raie System Nonresident Accounts NORWAY The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Norwegian Krone or NKr 7.14286 = US$1. The off ic ial l im i ts for the U.S. dollar are NKr 7.09 buying, and NKr 7.20 selling, per US$1 —rates at which the exchange authorities will buy or sell; the rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange ma rket between these limits. Ma rket rates for most Western European currencies vary between l im i ts wh ich result f rom comb in ing the o f f ic ial l im i ts for the U.S. dollar m a in t a in ed by Norway and such l im i ts in force in the coun t ry of the other currency concerned. Forward p rem iums and discounts are le ft to the in te rp lay of ma rket forces. Forward transac t ions with residents must have a commercial basis. Norway accepted the obligations of A r t i- cle V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as f rom May 11, 1967. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tered by the Minis- try of Commerce and Sh ipp ing in cooperation with the Bank of Norway. The au tho r i ty to approve most cu r rent paymen ts has been dele- gated to authorized banks. Import and export licenses, when requ ired, are issued by the Minis- try of Commerce and Shipping and, in certain cases, by the M in i s t ry of Agr icu l ture or the Min- istry of Fisheries. Imports and exports of pre- cious metals, and of sem imanu fac tu red articles thereof, are licensed by the Bank of Norway. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts between No rway and Rhodesia are prohibited when they relate to imports, exports, or t rans it trade, and in all other cases are subject to special license issued by the Bank of Norway. Settlements w i th all other countries except East- ern Germany may be made in any convertible currency, including Norwegian kroner on Con- vertible Krone Accounts (see section on Nonresi- dent Accounts, be low ). Paymen ts between Norway and Eastern Germany are settled on a bilateral basis in accordance w i th a clearing arrangement. 380 The ma in type of nonresident account is the Convertible Krone Account. Such accounts may be held by residents of all countries except East- ern Germany (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above ). They may be credited with authorized paymen ts to any country other than Eastern Germany, w i th transfers from other Con- vertible Krone Accounts, and w i th proceeds from the sale in Norway of convertible currencies. They may be debited for authorized payments f rom any coun try except Eastern Germany to residents of Norway, for transfers to other Con- vertible Krone Accounts, and for purchases in Norway of any foreign currency. Imports and Import Payments Most commodities do not require an import license. Practically all industrial goods may be imported freely from the import free list area 1 upon presentation of the original invoice. Imports of a few commodities, inc lud ing certain temperate zone agr icu l tural products, are restricted, irrespec- tive of origin. There are two restricted lists for specified countries —one applicable to imports f rom Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R., and the other appli- cable to imports f rom Japan and the Republic of Korea; many of the goods on these lists are licensed au toma t ica l ly. Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. A global quota list contains 13 quotas for agri- cu l tural products for which imports are permitted up to fixed l im i ts; these quotas apply to all coun- tries. New and secondhand ships built abroad, other than ships that are 20 years old or older and certain categories of fishing vessels, may be imported free ly, but a special permission is required in order to supervise compliance with cer ta in regulations regarding payments in advance of delivery. The import of a small number of 1 The import free list area comprises all countries except A lban ia, Bu lgar ia, ma in land China, Repub l ic of Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Japan, Nor th Korea, Republic of Korea, Macao, Mon- golia, Poland, Rhodesia, Rumania, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution commodities is prohibited for health and similar reasons, and certain goods (some grains, alco- holic beverages, equipment and materials for the fishing industry, pharmaceutical products, and drugs) are imported by government monopolies. If no license is required, or when an import license has been obtained, payment may be made w i thout delay, provided that the method of pay- ment is in conform i ty with the general rules (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). Payments for Invisibles Payments to any other country except Eastern Germany for all current invisibles, including income from capital and contractual amortization, may be made freely. Payments for invisibles to Eastern Germany must be made in the manner prescribed in the payments arrangement, a liberal practice being followed with regard to most invisi- bles. Payments for any purpose to any country other than Eastern Germany or Rhodesia do not require verification by authorized banks, provided that these payments do not exceed the equivalent of NKr 500. The gran t ing of exchange for travel purposes is not restricted. The basic exchange allowance for tourist travel abroad is equivalent to NKr 5,000 a trip for each person. For business travel, the banks may sell reasonable amounts. Each person leaving Norway may take with him up to NKr 350 in Norwegian banknotes and coins, in denominations not exceeding NKr 100. Nonresi- dents leaving Norway may, in addition, export any foreign banknotes brought into the country by them. Exports and Export Proceeds Most goods may be exported freely to coun- tries in the export free list area,2 against a decla- ration or a license, which is granted automati- cally. Exports subject to regulation are listed and require export licenses. All exports to countries outside the export free list area require an export license. Exports valued at not more than NKr 500 2 The export free list area comprises all coun tr ies ex- cept Albania, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rhodesia, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and North Viet- Nam. NORWAY to any country are exempt from export license. Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, with the exception of shipments for medical, humanitarian, or educational purposes. Payments must be received within 12 months of shipment and in conformity with the regula- tions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ). All exchange from exports must be sur- rendered. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles must be surrendered. Each person entering Norway may br ing in Nor- wegian bankno tes and coins up to NKr 1,000, in denom ina t ions not exceeding NKr 100, and other means of payment w i thout limit. Capital Inward transfers of capital and investments in Norway by nonresidents must be approved by the Bank of Norway. Outward transfers of capital require ind iv idual licenses; the g ran t ing of these licenses depends on the merits of the case. Licenses for outward transfers of proceeds from the sale or liquidation of investments made in Norway by nonresidents are granted freely, and nonresident capital may be repatriated automati- cally. Payments for contractual amortization are also permitted freely. Most transactions in securi- ties invo lv ing nonresident interests are subject to approval. Norwegian securities denominated in Norwegian kroner and purchased by non- residents from Norwegian residents by special permission may be resold to Norwegian residents who will be granted licenses for the transfer of the proceeds from the sale. Personal capital transfers, such as transfers relating to fam i ly loans, gifts, inheritances, lega- cies, dowries, emigrants' assets, savings of nonresi- dent workers, and amounts in settlement of imm igran ts' debts, may be made freely to any member coun try of the International Monetary Fund. In general, resident-owned capital assets abroad, other than securities, real estate, and other authorized investments, have to be surren- dered. Applications for capital transfers to make direct investments abroad are considered on their 381 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution NORWAY ind iv idual merits, and por tfo l io inves tment abroad is approved on ly excep t iona l ly. Resident- owned fore ign securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange are free ly negotiable between resi- dents, provided th at the securities o r ig ina l ly were acqu ired by a resident before October 1, 1966, or that they have been bought w i th the proceeds of fore ign secur i t ies acquired before that date. Transactions in fore ign secur i t ies between residents aga inst se t t lement in k roner requ i re a license f rom the Bank of No rw ay if the s e cu r i t i es were not inc luded in an au thor ized b roke r 's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. Residents may upon app l ica t ion t r a n s f er cap i tal abroad to purchase, for rec rea t ional purposes, real estate va lued at up to NKr 50,000 a f am i l y. Res iden ts o ther than b anks requ i re the prior approval of the Bank of Norway before ra is ing loans, accep t ing o ther fo rms of c ap i t a l, or incu r- r ing or p rov id ing gu a r an t ee ob l iga t ions abroad. Comme rc ial banks have been d irec ted to l im it the ir bo r row ing abroad in c o n f o rm i ty w i th gen- eral gu ide l ines issued annu a l ly. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acqu i re gold coins in Norway for n um i sm a t ic purposes. W i th this excep t ion, res iden ts o ther t h a n, the mone ta ry au tho r i t i es and au tho r ized i n d u s t r i al users are not allowed to hold or acqu i re gold in any fo rm other th an j ew e l ry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm o ther th an jewe l ry requ i re licenses issued by the Bank of No rway; such licenses are not n o rm a l ly gran ted except for impo r ts and expor ts by or on beha lf of the mone- tary au tho r i t ies and i n d u s t r i al users. No customs du t ies or other charges or fees are payable on imports or exports of gold bu l l ion and gold coins not contained in jewe l ry. Changes during 1969 January 6. The global quo tas for 1969 went into effect. March 13. The special licensing requ i rement for imports of cotton tex t i les f rom Por tugal was extended to cover impor ts of cotton textiles con- ta in ing synthetic or artificial fibers. 382 March 17. Gu ide l ines for the banks' borrow ing f rom abroad in 1969 were announced. It was assumed t h at net cap i tal in f low f rom abroad wou ld be reduced f rom an estimated NKr 900 m i l l ion in 1968 to NKr 600 m i l l ion in 1969. This was based on the assump t ion that the Govern- ment and the sh ipp ing indu s t ry would not need fo re ign cap i tal on a net basis. The guidelines imp l ied th a t, in 1969, Norwegian credit ins t i tu- tions would not finance the ir domestic lend ing by t a k i ng up add i t ional f u n ds abroad. The exchange au tho r i t i es assumed that the banks would not increase t h e ir net fore ign assets. May 31. Res iden ts could no longer w i thout approval f rom the Bank of Norway subscribe to, or in any o ther way acquire, shares in foreign inv e s tm ent companies (m u t u al f u n d s) under pro- g rams i n v o l v i ng f u t u re payment comm i tmen ts or in wh ich commission fees and o ther costs were who l ly or sub s t an t i a l ly charged to the in i t ial pay- men ts. The p roh ib i t ion did not app ly to invest- ment agreements entered into before May 31, 1969. June 1. The Bank of Norway tightened the repor t ing requ i remen ts in respect of purchases and sales of fore ign securities w i th se t t lement in fo re ign cu r r en cy, and in respect of transactions in such secu r i t ies between residents w i th settlement in kroner. June 1. Transactions in foreign securities be tween residents aga inst settlement in kroner requ i red a license f rom the Bank of No rway if the secu r i t ies were not inc luded in an authorized broker's safe deposit for customers on May 31, 1969. July 15. The Bank of No rway requested the commerc ial banks to re f ra in from approving cred it applications serving to postpone the surren- der of export proceeds or to accelerate import payments. July 18. The permission of the K ing in Council was requ i red to establish new inves tment compa- nies in Norway, whe ther by domestic or foreign firms, and for foreign investment companies to begin operations in the Norwegian market. For the t ime being, no approvals were given. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution October 1. Four items on the special restricted list applicable to imports f rom Japan and Korea were liberalized. December 15. It was announced that w i th effect from Janua ry 1, 1970 the requ irement of an ind iv idual license for imports of certain cotton textiles f rom Portugal would be replaced by a requ irement of submission of an export certificate issued by the Portuguese authorities for exports to Norway. NORWAY 383 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN 1 Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.186621 gram of fine gold per Pakistan Rupee or PRs 4.76190 = US$1. All transac t ions in foreign exchange must be con- ducted through authorized dealers, whose transac- tions with the general public must be effected at rates authorized by the State Bank of Pak is tan on the basis of par values established w i th the Inter- national Monetary Fund. Authorized dealers in Pak is tan are permitted to cover in the London m a rk et the ir requ i remen ts of specified currencies. They may also cover the ir permitted transactions in specified currencies against sterling or Pakistan rupees, either spot or forward for a l im i ted period, w i th their agents in the countries con- cerned. On December 30, 1969, ma rket rates for telegraphic t rans fe rs on London were <£8.7630 buying, and £8.7370 selling, per PRs 100, and on New York they were US$21 .1101 buy ing, and US$20.8709 selling, per PRs 100. Other e f fec t ive rates arise from the negotiation of bonus vouch- ers wh ich cer ta in exporters and a few other earn- ers or recipients of exchange may sell at freely determined rates to importers who need them in order to ob ta in import licenses for var ious com- modities or to importers or others to obtain exchange for certain invisibles. The vouchers are quoted spot and fo rwa rd on the Karachi stock exchange. On December 31, 1969, these vouch- ers issued under the Export Bonus Scheme were quoted at about PRs 181 per PRs 100 of nomi- nal va lue. There are d i f f e r e nt effec t ive rates aris- ing from the negotiation of a special type of bonus voucher issued under a Bonus Scheme for Hotels. Administration of Control The State Bank of Pakistan has delegated to 24 banks and financial ins t i tu t ions au tho r i ty to deal in all foreign currencies, to supervise sur- render requirements, and to sell exchange for specified purposes w i th in limits prescribed by the State Bank. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports is responsible for the issue of licenses 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1970 (see note at the end of this s u r v e y ), this survey presents the position on January 8, 1970. 384 and the implementation of import and export policies. Certain foreign trade transactions are conducted through the Trading Corporation of Pakistan, Ltd., a state trading agency. Prescription of Currency Pak is tan is a member of the Sterling Area, and the prescribed methods for settling both trade and non trade transactions are similar to those of most other Sterling Area countries. Payments between Pakistan and the Republic of China, Ind ia, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are sus- pended; there is an inoperative clearing account w i th Ind ia. Exchange receipts must be obtained through an au thor ized dealer. Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area must be received in sterling f rom the account of a resident of the Sterling Area (o ther th an a resident of Pakistan) or in Pak is tan rupees from the account of a bank in the Sterling Area. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area must be obtained in sterling f rom an Ex ternal Account in the United King- dom, in Pak is tan rupees from the account of a bank outside the Sterling Area, or in any non- Sterling Area currency. Payments abroad must be made through an authorized dealer. Payments by residents of Paki- stan to countries in the Sterling Area are made by t rans fe r r ing sterling or any other Sterling Area currency, inc lud ing Pakistan rupees, to an appro- pr ia te account. Payments to countries outside the Sterling Area are made by t ran s fe r r ing sterling or Pak is tan rupees to a nonresident account or, in some cases, in the recipient's currency. For imports, payment is normally made to the coun- try of origin of the goods. No exchange control is exercised over transac- tions w i th Afghan is tan, and settlements are made in Pakistan rupees or afghanis. Trade transactions under "barter" agreements are settled through special accounts in inconvertible currencies. Trade in specified commodities with Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, North Korea, Nepal, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia is settled through clearing accounts ma in ta ined in inconvertible Pakistan rupees. Payments to and from Iran and Turkey ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution relating to visible trade (excluding border trade, Iran ian oil, and defense materials) are settled through clearing accounts maintained by the respective central banks in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts D i f fe rent rules apply to nonresident rupee accounts of ind iv idua ls, firms, or companies, on the one hand, and to nonresident rupee accounts of banks, on the other. Authorized dealers may open rupee accounts for banks abroad without reference to the State Bank, but approval is required for opening other nonresident accounts. Transfers from nonresident banks' rupee accounts in Pakistan to the corresponding sterling accounts in the United Kingdom are allowed, but other nonresident account holders must obtain permis- sion from the exchange control authorities for transfers from their credit balances. Accounts of residents of India, except those of the Ind ian High Commission and its personnel, are blocked. imports and import Payments Permitted imports are classified in four lists: a free list, a licensable list, an export bonus list (also called bonus import l i s t ), and a cash-cum- bonus list. All imports require licenses, except goods on the free l i s t2 and goods imported by the Central Government for defense or other pur- poses, goods in transit, personal baggage, certain imports over the land route from Afghanistan and I ran, and certain other items permitted under a M in is try of Commerce Notification (No. 335/260/24, June 12, 1951). The commercial import of goods on the free list is restricted to registered indus tr ial consumers and commercial importers, unless exemption from registration is obtained; however, limitations are applied to indi- vidual import entitlements for goods on this list, ceilings on ind iv idual letters of credit being based on past import performance. Permissible sources and conditions of procurement are prescribed for all items on the list. Import licenses for commodi- ties on the licensable list are granted on a discre- tionary basis; these licenses and licenses for items 2 While private sector imports of free list items do not require an import license, public sector agencies require either an allocation from the Government or an authori- zation. PAKISTAN on the export bonus list and the cash-cum-bonus list are issued in accordance w i th procedures indicated below. Goods on the free list and the licensable list are imported at the official rate. Com- modities not included in any of the four lists are prohibited or are not being licensed. With the exception of specific country licenses issued in accordance w i th trade, aid, or loan agreements w i th particular countries, import licenses may be used in any coun try of the world other than the Republic of China, India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. Cer ta in imports are only or in part effected through the in termed iary of the Trading Corporation of Pak is tan, Ltd.; they include sugar from specified countries, specified raw materials, pig iron, and certain other metals. Licensing takes place in accordance with criteria that are deter- mined administratively, and imports take place at the official rate but, depending on the commodity, may be subject to price equalization levies. Im- ports of rice, wheat, and coal are also reserved for public sector agencies. Import licenses are issued on a c. & f. basis to established commercial importers and industrial consumers and only for commodities specified in the semiannual import program. The quantities to be licensed to established importers are deter- mined by the authorities on an historical basis. A special indus tr ial licensing procedure operates for imports of licensable items by recognized indus tr ial units. This procedure allows specified industries to receive import licenses for items not on the free list on a specific basis determined by the competent authority. For items on the licens- able list, industrial consumers receive licenses according to fixed entitlements based on require- ments for operations at single-shift capacity; com- mercial importers receive licenses under fixed quotas based on past import performance. Supplementary import licenses under a Raw Material Replenishment Scheme are granted to specified exporting industries. The imports con- cerned must be made on cash-cum-bonus terms. Import licenses are issued freely under the Export Bonus Scheme for items on the export bonus list and for any item (other than sheet or plate glass) included in the free list, licensable list, or cash-cum-bonus list, provided that bonus vouchers equivalent to 100 per cent of the 385 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN amount of the license requested are surrendered when applying for an import license. The holder of a bonus voucher (en t i t lement to import) must apply w i th in 30 days (12 mon ths for imports of heavy mach ine ry and equ ipmen t) of the receipt of the voucher for the issue of an import license for any of the items eligible under the Export Bonus Scheme. This license is issued without restriction and w i thout the importer hav ing to be registered. Import licenses issued against bonus vouchers are valid for 6 mon ths f rom the day of their issue, except for imports of heavy mach in- ery and equ ipmen t, for which the period may be extended up to 24 months. Licensing of items on the cash-cum-bonus list is subject to the surren- der of bonus vouchers equ iva lent to 50 per cent of the amount of the license. The surrender of vouchers for these items is also allowed, however, at the t ime the documen ts are retired (subject to bank guarantee, indemn i ty bond, or, for pub l ic sector imports, le t ter of au tho r i ty f rom the govern- ment depa r tment conce rned ). Capital goods generally are licensed only under foreign aid. Imports of capital goods are payable at the off ic ial rate, but any requ i red downpay- ment on private sector imports of capital goods and on most public sector imports of such goods requires surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 100 per cent of the downpayment.. Except for imports of books, periodicals, and newspapers, and those aga inst bonus import licenses, irrevocable letters of credit must be opened for all commercial imports. Rem i t tances are not no rma l ly perm i t ted before shipping docu- ments are received, but in special cases, e.g., mach inery and other capital goods for which deposits have to be made w i th foreign manu fac- turers, the State Bank may authorize advance paymen ts for a pa rt of the va lue of the goods. No import payments are permitted to be made for goods originating in or consigned from the Repub- lic of Ch ina, India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. Imports at the official rate of certain aid- financed iron and steel items, cement, coal, edible oils, and raw ma ter ia ls for the electrical equip- ment indu s t ry, etc., are subject to price equaliza- tion levies; the same items, when not financed 386 w i th aid, are imported at the cash-cum-bonus rate. Impor ts of all commodities, except machinery, are subject to a "defense surcharge" of 25 per cent of the applicable rate of customs du ty. Many imports are subject to a customs surcharge ("regu- latory du ty ") of 10 per cent ad valorem. Payments for Invisibles Paymen ts for invisibles are controlled by the State Bank and in most cases requ i re approval. No remittances are permitted to be made to the Republic of Ch ina, Ind ia, Israel, or Rhodesia. Under au tho r i ty delegated to them, authorized dealers may sell exchange or make rem i t tances in accordance with detailed regulations. Certain rem i t tances of a personal na tu re are subject to a n n u al quo tas, but most are approved at the discretion of the State Bank. Remittances by Pak is tan na t iona ls to the ir families abroad require special au thor iza t ion. Paymen ts for invisibles connected with imports are generally given the same trea tment as that accorded the unde r ly ing trade transaction. Trans- port insu rance mus t, except with respect to cer- ta in aid sh ipmen ts, be taken out with insurance companies in Pakistan. The rem i t tance of d iv idends declared out of cu r rent prof i ts is allowed freely to foreign share- holders where the investment was made with the Governmen t's approval. Profits of branches of fore ign companies may be rem i t ted free ly to their head offices. The same applies to head office expenses charged to a branch's profit and loss account and accepted for tax purposes by the Pak is tan income tax authorities. There is an annual allowance for pilgrims' travel to Saudi Arab ia; for those trave l ing by air or first class by steamer, the allowance is subject to surrender of bonus for an equ iva lent amount.3 Those eligible are selected by ballot. There are also m inor pilgrimage fac i l i t ies for other Middle Eastern countries, usua l ly subject to fu ll surrender of bonus. No exchange is being granted until 3 Deck passengers are granted their allocation at the official rate, and those trave l ing second class by steamer are allowed th e ir exchange quo ta against surrender of bonus vouchers equ iva lent to 50 per cent of that quota. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution fu r ther notice for tourism or other private travel. However, exchange for business travel, medical treatment, and sponsored cultural trips may be granted on an individual basis. Exporters may use a limited percentage of their entitlements under the Export Bonus Scheme for business travel or for opening and ma in ta in ing branch offices outside Pakistan. Pakistan writers and journalists may use their foreign exchange earnings for approved travel abroad. The approval of the State Bank is required prior to booking passage for foreign travel. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency not exceeding the amounts they brought in and PRs 20 in Pakistan currency notes. Resi- dents leaving for Afghanistan may take out PRs 50 in Pakistan currency notes and coins and any amount of A fghan currency. Persons traveling on Category "A" visas (to Ind ia) may not take out any Pakistan currency notes or coins. Residents traveling to other foreign destinations may take out PRs 20 in Pak is tan currency and, subject to State Bank authorization, up to the equivalent of £ 10 in foreign currency notes and coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of most commodities are allowed freely. However, export licenses are required for 24 listed items, as well as for certain types of sports goods and a few other items below mini- mum export prices, and for mill-made cotton piece goods and ready-made garments intended for export to the United Kingdom. Exports to the Republic of China, Ind ia, Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. The Trading Corpo- ration of Pak is tan, Ltd., has the monopoly over exports of specified products. The State Bank exercises control over exchange receipts and requires a declaration by the exporter tha t, when payment in accordance with the prescribed method is received, he will surrender the exchange w i th in a certain period of time. Af ter mak ing certain that the exporter's declaration meets all conditions, the authorized dealer certifies the shipment. Exporters are obliged to collect and surrender export proceeds w i th in four months; export proceeds from ju te manu fac tu res, however, must be repatriated within six months, and exporters to the United PAKISTAN Kingdom also are permitted to surrender up to six months a f ter shipment the proceeds of sales to U.K. importers of goods covered by the U.K. import deposit scheme. There is an Export Bonus Scheme applicable to exporters of all goods other than certain speci- fied commodities including the following major items: raw ju te; raw cotton; hides and skins, inc lud ing lambskins but excluding fu rs and reptile skins; rice; and tea. Af ter surrendering all their exchange receipts for local currency, exporters of other pr imary products, by-products, semimanu- fac tured goods, including unfinished cotton piece goods, and manufac tured goods involving a simple manu fac tu r ing process are issued bonus vouchers of a value equivalent to 20, 30, or 40 per cent of the net exchange surrendered, while for exports of other goods the percentage is 40. Bonus vouchers also are issued to approved sales centers for their local sales to nonresidents against payment in foreign exchange. Exporters must apply to the State Bank within 15 days of the retirement of bills of exchange relating to exports made under the scheme for the issuance of bonus vouchers. These vouchers are freely transferable and entitle the holder to import a wide range of specified commodities, which are not otherwise licensed for importation, as well as any commodity (except sheet or plate glass) in- cluded in any one of the three other import lists. Under a Raw Material Replenishment Scheme, supp lemen tary import licenses are available to most exporting industries. Proceeds from Invisibles With the exception of Afghan currency, which may be retained, incoming foreign exchange derived from invisibles must be surrendered at the official rate w i th in one month. Pakistanis and persons of Indo-Pakistan origin who are employed abroad are entitled to receive bonus vouchers equivalent to 40 per cent of all remit- tances of savings made by them to Pakistan through official channels; Pakistani writers and journalists also receive 40 per cent bonus for earnings in foreign exchange abroad; they may alternatively use their foreign exchange earnings to import articles for their personal use and for approved foreign travel. Earners of foreign ex- 387 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN change from cer ta in other services ( a i r c r a ft repairs, salvage and lighterage operations, and ship repa i rs) are en t i t led to receive bonus vouchers equ iva lent to 20 per cent of the net fore ign ex- change earned by them; and earners of fore ign exchange f rom shipping are en t i t led to receive bonus vouchers equ iva lent to 30 per cent of the ir exchange ea rn ings. Under the Bonus Scheme for Hotels, hotels are en t i t led to receive bonus vouch- ers against wh ich they can ob ta in import licenses equ iva lent to 20 per cent of the ir exchange earn- ings from foreign tourists for room charges, ex t ra meals, bar sales, and cabare t; these licenses are valid for a number of i tems required by the hotel industry. Bonus facilities apply also to Indus Basin Works contracts ( in c lud ing those re la t ing to the Tarbela Dam P ro jec t ); all suppliers are entitled to bonus vouchers equivalent to 40 per cent of the foreign exchange earned from mach inery items and 30 per cent from all other supplies, but not to bonus vouchers on advance payments for supplies to the Indus Basin Works. Persons trave l ing on Category "A" visas (from Ind i a) may not bring in any Pak is tan currency notes or coins. Other travelers may bring in PRs 80 in Pakistan currency notes, subject to dec- laration to the customs, and Rs 5 in coins that are legal tender in Ind ia; Pakistan currency notes in denominations of PRs 50, 100, and 500 may not be brought in. There is no limitation on the import of other currency notes and coins, but they must be declared to the customs on entry. Capital Investments in Pakistan by nonresidents are subject to approval. In order to encourage industrial development in Pakistan, the Govern- ment follows a liberal policy toward foreign entrepreneurs, who can start any indus try in the private sector w i thout any conditions being laid down regarding the participation of local capital. It is, however, expected that local rupee expendi- ture will ordinarily be met from local equity capital. Repatriation facilities are as follows: (1) For- eign capital invested in approved industries established a f ter September 1, 1954 may be repa- triated at any time thereafter to the extent of the 388 original inves tmen t, and current profits may be transferred w i thout restriction, to the country of origin of the capital. ( 2) Profits that are rein- vested in approved industrial projects with the approval of the Government may be treated as investment for the purpose of subsequent repatria- tion. (3) Appreciation of any capital investment under ( 1) and (2) may also be treated as invest- ment for the purpose of subsequent repatriation. These repatriation facilities do not apply to the purchase of shares on the stock exchange unless the purchase is an integral part of an approved investment project, or to capital invested in Paki- stan before September 1, 1954. Guarantees provide for just and fa ir compensa- tion in the currency of the country of origin of the inves tmen t, in the event of nationalization of any project. The Government has no nationaliza- tion measures under consideration. Foreign na t iona ls in Pakistan or abroad may register their investments in National Prize Bonds issued by the Government of Pakistan, and thus fac i l i ta te repatriation at any time of the principal and the prize winnings. Transfers of capital abroad by resident nation- als are, in general, not permitted; the purchase of foreign securities by resident Pakistanis requires approval by the State Bank. However, detailed rules govern the transfer of capital by persons emigrating or retiring from Pakistan, depending upon the nationality of the person concerned and the coun try or monetary area to which the trans- fer is to be made. Foreign nationals temporarily residing in Pakistan are treated as nonresidents for purposes of transfer of securities. Foreign na t iona ls are permitted to purchase Pakistan securities upon approval by the State Bank; the subsequent sale of such securities to foreign nationals and Pakistanis resident abroad also requires approval by the State Bank. The sale by a foreign national resident in Pakistan to a Paki- stani also resident in Pakistan does not require such approval. General permission has been given for the t rans fer or transmission of shares from the name of a nonresident shareholder holding shares with the approval of the State Bank to another nonresident shareholder in the same coun try, provided that the latter is a national of that country. A general license has also been ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution issued allowing foreign nationals temporarily resi- dent in Pakistan to make investments in units of the National Investment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. Foreign life insurance companies have been given general permission to invest in shares issued by Pakistan companies and quoted on the stock exchange. Exports of securities are subject to approval. Proceeds accruing from the liquidation of nonresi- dent capital assets that are not covered by repa- triation arrangements may be credited to blocked accounts. Subject to approval by the State Bank, balances on blocked accounts may be invested in approved government securities payable in Paki- stan rupees or placed on time deposit with banks. A general permission allows Pakistan nationals resident abroad to acquire securities in Pakistan by remittance of foreign exchange or to the debit of their nonresident accounts in Pakistan; divi- dends or interest thereon, as well as the proceeds upon sale, must be credited to nonresident accounts and cannot normally be transferred abroad. Pakistan nationals holding movable or immovable assets abroad require the prior approval of the State Bank to sell these, and the liquidation proceeds must be repatriated to Paki- stan through normal banking channels. Gold The export and import of gold i& prohibited unless authorized by the State Bank. No such permission is granted, but there are no restric- tions on the internal sale and purchase of non- monetary gold. The movement of gold from West Pakistan to East Pakistan, where gold prices usually are higher, is subject to control and at present is limited to a quota of 2,000 tolas 4 a month. Changes during 1969 January 1. The import program for the first half of 1969 went into effect. The most important change was the transfer of additional commodi- ties, including certain iron and steel items, from the official rate to the cash-cum-bonus rate. Iron and steel billets, steel ingots, and steel blooms PAKISTAN were shifted to the bonus list but the 40 per cent customs duty was removed. Other changes in the four commodity lists were minor. The 14 free list items could be imported only from specified sources financed by loans or under bilateral agreements. The cash-cum-bonus list covered 95 items, consisting mainly of essential industrial raw materials, and would be licensed at 100 per cent of entitlement. The 31 items on the licens- able list, as well as the items on the free list and the cash-cum-bonus list, could all, except for sheet and plate glass, be imported against bonus vouchers also. Certain iron and steel items could be imported for 50 per cent of the entitlement on the free list and the remainder under cash-cum- bonus. The export bonus list comprised 261 items. January 16. Trade with Ceylon under the bilateral agreement of April 28, 1967 henceforth was settled through inconvertible special accounts denominated in pounds sterling opened in each other's names by Habib Bank Ltd., and the Cen- tral Bank of Ceylon. January 17. Where exporters desired to extend credit to U.K. importers of goods covered by the U.K. import deposit scheme, the State Bank would on a case-by-case basis permit an exten- sion of the surrender period for export proceeds from four months to six months. January 18. The amount up to which author- ized dealers were permitted to issue foreign cur- rency notes to departing travelers upon surrender of an equ iva lent amount in foreign currency was reduced from PRs 500 a person to <£ 15 a person. January. A number of machinery items which had been importable against bonus vouchers were banned, including all textile machinery except for balancing and/or replacement. March 1. Exchange and passage facilities were made available to a limited number of Pakistan nationals for pilgrimages to Middle Eastern coun- tries ( inc lud ing Tu rkey ). The exchange quota was £40 a person and bonus vouchers had to be surrendered for the fu ll amount. March 5. Supplies for the Tarbela Dam Proj- ect became eligible for bonus vouchers. 4 One tola equals 180 grains troy or 0.375 ounce. March 6. Pakistan writers and journalists were 389 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PAKISTAN allowed 40 per cent bonus on the ir foreign exchange ea rn ings from all types of l i te ra ry and journalistic contributions abroad, provided that these earnings were repa t r ia ted to Pakistan. A l te rna t ive ly, they could use the ir foreign exchange earnings for approved visits abroad and for the import of articles for their personal use, subject to the relevant impo rt policy regulations. March 27. In add i t ion to the p i lg r image f a c i l i- ties of March 1, an exchange quota of <£40 was made available for Z iarat pilgrimages to Iran and Iraq. Full surrender of bonus vouchers was required for travel by air, and none for other modes of travel. March 31. Exports of chrome ore f rom Paki- stan were brought under the special a r rangement w i th the Swedish firm, Sukab. April 5. Imports under bonus import licenses no longer were required to be covered by an irrevocable letter of credit but could be made against sight d r a f ts or usance bills. April 10. Repeat licenses were issued for most items on the cash-cum-bonus l is t, all items on the licensable list, and for those items on the free list which could also be imported on cash-cum-bonus terms. These repeat licenses were issued on cash-cum-bonus terms only. April 14. Applications for the issue of bonus vouchers had to be made w i th in 15 days f rom the date of realization of export proceeds. Previously, application was required w i t h in 45 days f rom the date mentioned or from the date of export, whichever was later. April 16. Ma r t ial Law Regulation No. 34 pro- vided that any person or firm, other than a bona fide s tudent engaged in studies or t ra in ing in a foreign country, who held any fore ign exchange and who had reason to believe that such holding was not l aw f ul or had been acquired u n l aw f u l l y, must declare it to the State Bank or surrender it to an authorized dealer by May 15, 1969. Mar- tial Law Regulation No. 35 required all persons and firms owning any movable or immovable assets other than foreign exchange in any country other than Pakistan to declare to the State Bank by June 16, 1969 their description and value and the income therefrom. Exempt from th is require- ment were bona fide students and wage earners in 390 foreign countries. Both Regulations applied to Pak is tan citizens at home and abroad. April 24. It was announced that persons sur- rende r ing u n l aw f u l ly held foreign exchange by May 15 wou ld be paid the equ iva lent in rupees by the b ank w i thout any questions and w i thout going in to the mode of acquisition of such hold- ings. The money so brought in would not be liable to income tax. Definitions were provided of "foreign exchange" and "un law ful foreign exchange." The la t ter inc luded foreign exchange held in Pak i s tan by foreign na t iona ls for a period exceed ing six months. May 19. The prescribed period for the declara- t ion and su r render of foreign exchange under M a r t i al Law Regulation No. 34 was extended up to June 16, 1969. May 20. Persons entitled to bonus under the Home Rem i t tances Bonus Scheme were tempo- ra r i ly allowed bonus also on their contributions for a specified cha r i tab le purpose. May 22. Where part of the downpayment for imports made under credit agreements was made in local currency, in accordance with the agree- men t, pub l ic and sem ipub l ic sector agencies no longer were requ ired to surrender bonus vouchers for the equ iv a l ent of the local currency paymen t. The p r iva te sector remained obliged to surrender bonus vouchers for the f u ll downpayment. May. Cash-cum-bonus licenses were issued for direct impo r ta t ion of pig iron, copper rods and ingots, z inc ingots, and lead ingots. Pre- v ious ly, these were impor tab le only by the Trad- ing Corporation of Pakistan. May. New gu ide l ines were announced for implementing the revised policy on protection of indu s t ry. June 2. It was clarified that salaried employees abroad were not to be considered "bona fide wage earners" for purposes of Martial Law Regu- la t ion No. 35. June 12. A general license was given to foreign na t iona ls temporar i ly resident in Pakistan to make inves tmen ts in un i ts of the National Invest- ment Trust, subject to certain stipulations. July 1. The import program for the second half of 1969 went into effect. There were 14 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution items on the free list, 33 on the licensable list, 111 on the cash-cum-bonus list, and 262 on the bonus import list. The ma in change was the t ran s fer of 22 items, ma in ly indus tr ial raw mate- rials, from bonus to cash-cum-bonus; these included steel billets, which would now bear a du ty of 50 per cent. Items on bonus were free of restrictions, except caustic soda, which was lim- ited to 20 per cent of entitlement. Customs duties were raised on indus tr ial mach inery and compo- nen ts and on agricultural machinery and imple- ments. Those on motorcars valued at over PRs 11,000 were reduced from 200 per cent to 30 per cent. Customs duties on various industrial raw materials and components were reduced or eliminated. Import paymen ts could not be made for goods o r ig ina t ing in the Republic of Ch ina, India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. July 29. Low-priced tea was taken off the bonus import list and imports were suspended. Superior tea for blending was shifted from the bonus to the cash-cum-bonus list. September 29. Downpay.-ients in respect of imports of pesticides and fertilizers under credit agreements could be made without surrender of bonus vouchers, irrespective of the type of importer. October 6. By v ir tue of Martial Law Regula- tion No. 35, Pakistan nationals residing in Paki- stan who held movable or immovable assets abroad were directed to remit to Pakistan regu- larly the income derived from their assets held abroad. Such assets could not be sold without the prior approval of the State Bank, and liquidation proceeds had to be repatriated to Pakistan through normal bank ing channels. November 5. Haj pilgrims were required to surrender bonus vouchers equivalent to the fu ll foreign exchange quota plus Jiddah dues for pas- sengers traveling by air and first and second class by steamer. Deck-class travelers were not required to surrender bonus vouchers. November 5. Banks were perm i t ted, under specified conditions, to finance purchases of bonus vouchers. NOTE. —The early in 1970: following changes took place PAKISTAN January 1. The import program for the first half of 1970 went into effect. The number of items on the licensable list was raised to 38 from 33, while the free list was unchanged at 14 items with the exception of the reintroduction of steel billets under U.S. aid. Few changes were made in the bonus import list (261 i tem s ), including the addition of free imports of caustic soda in West Pak is tan, which however, was made subject to a protective duty of PRs 300 a ton. The cash- cum-bonus list comprised 115 items. The surren- der of bonus vouchers for imports under cash-cum-bonus terms could hencefor th take place when the documents had to be retired from the bank; cash-cum-bonus licenses could be issued on production of a bank guarantee or indemn i ty bond to the effect that bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of the face value of licenses would be surrendered at the time of retirement of docu- ments. Otherwise, however, the licensing of cash- cum-bonus items was subject to surrender of bonus vouchers equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount of the license. For 9 items of industrial raw materials, licenses would be issued to com- merical importers as well as to unrecognized units, which previously could not receive licenses. Import payments could not be made for goods originating in or consigned from the Republic of China, India, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. The Export Performance Licensing Scheme was abolished. A Raw Material Replenishment Scheme was introduced for manufac turers engaged in ex- port business; imports under the scheme would be on cash-cum-bonus terms. As an innovation, part of the budgeted foreign assistance would be made available to importers immediately, in some cases prior to the formal signing of the relevant loan agreements. This would be done by means of cash allocations from Pakistan's own foreign exchange resources, to be reimbursed subsequently by the credit-giving country. January 8. Haj pilgrims traveling second class by steamer were granted foreign exchange on cash-cum-bonus basis as against earlier on full bonus basis only. Haj pilgrims traveling by air or first class by steamer continued to be required to surrender bonus vouchers equivalent to the sum of their foreign exchange quota and the Jiddah dues. 391 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.888671 gram of fine gold per Panaman ian Balboa or B 1.00 = US$1. U.S. currency notes and coins circulate freely in Panama, and local currency is represented only by limited amounts of silver balboas and subsidi- ary coins. Exchange transactions by commercial banks are based on New York market quotations. Panama has no exchange restrictions on foreign payments, with the exception of a prohibition on payments to Rhodesia other than those for pen- sions or for human i tar ian, educational, medical, or informational purposes. On November 26, 1946, Panama notified the Fund that it accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control Import and export policy is determined by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Indus- try; import policy is made in consultation with the Committee of Adjustments, on which the Government, producers, and consumers are rep- resented. Most import and export licenses are issued by the Price Regulation Office, a semiau- tonomous institution of the Panamanian Govern- ment. In rare cases, import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Com- merce, and Industry. The Price Regulation Office is responsible for the implementation of restric- tions on imports of commodities that compete with national production and on certain exports; the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry determines the import quotas for com- modities that are produced or are about to be produced in Panama. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Quotas are imposed on imports of commodities compet- ing with present or prospective domestic produc- tion; some of these are not being licensed. Import licensing also applies to imports of various foods. 392 Other imports are free. Payments abroad may be made freely. A tax of 3!/2 per cent on the f.o.b. value is levied, in addition to import duty, on imports of all du t iab le goods other than medical equipment and medicines. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited, except those for human i ta r ian, educational, medical, or informa t ional purposes. Authorization is required for exports of coffee in any form, coconuts, copra, and beef cattle. Merchandise on which export taxes are imposed is also subject to licens- ing. Export taxes are imposed on the following: gold, silver, and p la t inum; manganese; other min- erals; bananas; coconuts; scrap metals; pearls; animal wax; nispero gum; ipecac root; and rubber. Exports of wheat flour, firearms, and ammun i t ion are prohibited. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except for most pay- ments to Rhodesia (see above). Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, except for most payments to Rho- desia. Gold Residents may freely hold gold in any form at home and abroad and may freely negotiate gold in any form with residents or nonresidents at home and abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry carried as personal effects by travelers are subject to license if made by residents other than the monetary authorities; import and export licenses are issued freely by the Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce, and Industry. Exports of unworked gold produced in Panama are subject to an export duty of 1 per cent ad valorem, and exports of gold coins (other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PANAMA than U.S. coins, which are exempt) to a du ty of l/2 per cent. Changes during 1969 During the year, imports of a number of addi- tional commodities became subject to quota restriction. March 7. The functions of the Price Regula- tion Office were broadened to include ( 1 ) advis- ing the Government w i th regard to emergency imports to alleviate scarcities of essential goods; (2) regulating prices of the products manufac- tured by protected domestic industries; and (3) setting import quotas in order to stimulate the consumption of domestic products. A Committee of Ad jus tmen ts was charged with certain policy- mak ing func t ions in respect of imports. August 21. Decree No. 276 prohibited all pay- ments to Rhodesia other than those for pensions or for human i ta r ian, medical, educational, or in fo rma t ional purposes, and prohibited all imports f rom and exports to Rhodesia other than exports for human i ta r ian, educational, medical, or informa t ional purposes. 393 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY Exchange Rate System On March 1, 1956, a par value for the Para- guayan Gua raní was established by Paraguay w i th the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on th at par va lue. Exchange t ransac t ions take place at f ree market rates, which since October 1960 have been pegged at 0 123.60 and 0 126.00 per US$1, buy ing and selling. Settlements w i th Spain are made th rough a clearing account at a fixed ra te also of 0 126.00 per US$1. All purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be made th rough authorized commercial banks, except those re la ted to government paymen ts for impor ts and services, wh ich are carried out th rough the Central B ank. There are no fo rwa rd exchange fac i l i t ie s. All purchases and sales of exchange by banks are subject to a tax of 1 per cent. In add i t ion, banks charge a commission of 2 per cent on all sales of foreign exchange. A pa ra l lel free ma rket exists in which the rate for the U.S. dollar was about (3 130 on December 31, 1969. The au thor ized banks are requ i red to sell 30 per cent of their gross fore ign exchange receipts in specified currencies l to the Central Bank. Administration of Control The Cen tral Bank of Paraguay de term ines for- eign exchange policy and supervises the foreign exchange t ransac t ions carr ied out by au tho r ized commercial banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements w i th Spain under a b i la teral pay- ments agreement w i th th at coun t ry must be made through a c lear ing account m a in t a in ed in terms of U.S. dollars. Otherwise, there are no prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Payments be tween Par- aguay and A rgen t ina, Chile, Mexico, and Peru may be made through accounts ma in ta ined with each other by the Central Bank of Paraguay and the central banks concerned, w i th in the frame- work of the LAFTA mu l t i la te ral clearing system. 1 These currencies are Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne the r lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. do l lars. (On Ap r il 17, 1970, A rgen t ine pesos were added to the list.) 394 Imports and Import Payments Imports of a few commodities are proh ib i ted .2 All other imports are free of quan t i ta t ive restric- tion and licensing. Imports of most commodities are subject to an advance deposit of 100 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue, which is re ta ined for 120 days, or if the deposit is made af ter the da te of sh ipmen t, 180 days, or for nonexempt commodi- ties imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, 90 days. Advance deposits are not required for, inter alia, government imports, impor ts by diplomats and by ce r ta in in te rna t ional o rgan iza t ions, fuel and petroleum der iva t ives, cer- ta in mach ine ry, ag r icu l tu ral equ ipmen t, wheat and wheat f lour, and chemicals from any source, specified Spanish goods impor ted through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay, imports from ne ighbo r ing countries ( inc lud ing U r u g u a y ), imports from other LAFTA countries of items inc luded in the Paraguayan concession list ( the Na t ional L is t), and imports falling under the reg- u la t ions governing the incorporation of foreign capital. Surcharges, calculated on the c.i.f. value, are payable on most imports even if no foreign exchange payment takes place. An import sur- charge of 32 per cent applies to most general impo r ts from any source; however, for goods o r ig ina t ing in LAFTA countries and included in the Pa raguayan Na t ional List the rate ranges f rom 3 per cent to 30 per cen t, and for certain other LAFTA goods (ma in ly pharmaceu t ica ls) in a special list the rate is 8 per cent.3 Fuel derived from pe tro leum is subject to a surcharge of .15 per cent (10 per cent for ne ighbor ing countries, inc lud ing U r u g u a y ). There is an add i t ional sur- charge of 5 per cent ( resu l t ing in a total sur- charge of 37 per cent) on imports f rom all sources of radios, record players, and their parts and accessories. Commodities that are exempt f rom surcharge generally are also exempt f rom advance deposit. This is t rue also of all imports under the Capital Inves tment Law, Decree-Law No. 246. 2 These include certain agricultural products, depend- ing on the season, certain petroleum products, and cer- ta in w ire and w ire products. 3 For specified food products and for other items the surcharge is e i ther 8 per cent or 16 per cent when they are imported from neighboring countries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution These surcharges are collected by the banks at the time of delivery of the documents for customs clearance or when the import payment is made, whichever is earlier. The following are the princi- pal exemptions from surcharge: wheat; crude pe tro leum; agricultural tractors; imports for the Government; for religious, cultural, or educational purposes; imports by diplomats and certain inter- national organizations; Spanish agricultural and industrial machinery and implements imported through the Spanish free zone in Paraguay; agri- cultural mach inery and equipment for the Na t ional Wheat Program; and imports under Capital Investment Law No. 246. Imports of investment goods and of raw materials for export indus tr ies receive exemption on a case-by-case basis. In addition to the above surcharges, a tariff surcharge is levied on certain imports by virtue of Law No. 1334/67, which implemented Decree- Law No. 451 of March 31, 1967. On goods that are not exempt, it is 12 per cent or 24 per cent (6, 8, 12, or 18 per cent for cer ta in goods sub- ject to LAFTA concessions) and is levied on the c.i.f. value, which is calculated as follows: the f.o.b. value plus 10 per cent for imports f rom neighboring countries and the f.o.b. value plus 20 per cent for imports from other countries.4 Exempt from this complementary import du ty are public sector and diplomatic imports; raw mate- rials and equipment for the production of goods that are subject to internal consumption taxes or of certain other goods; imports under Capital Inves tment Law No. 246 or Industrial Develop- ment Law No. 202; and all imported goods taxed under the In te rnal Consumption Tax Law. Most imports are subject to sales tax at 5 per cent or 10 per cent by virtue of Law No. 69. In addition to those mentioned above, the fol- lowing charges are levied on the c.i.f. value of imports: a consular fee of 5 per cent, an import clearance fee of 1 per cent, and a customs sur- charge of IY2 per cent, from which wheat and certain other commodities are exempt and the proceeds of which go to the Ins t i tu te of Tech- nology and Standards. Moreover, imports of construction materials are subject to an additional 4 The comp lemen ta ry du ty is 6 per cent or 12 per cent on certain foodstuffs imported from neighboring countries. PARAGUAY customs surcharge of 1 per cent, the proceeds of which go to the Institute of Housing. Imports on credit for a term of more than six months require approval from the Central Bank. This approval is normally granted only for imports of mach inery and vehicles other than pri- vate automobiles. Import payments are free from formal restric- tion, but certain arrears have arisen as a result of insuff ic ient releases of foreign exchange to the commercial banks by the Central Bank. Payments for invisibles Authorized banks may sell exchange freely for specified current invisibles, provided that appro- pr ia te documentation is submitted. They may grant allocations for travel purposes as follows, for each person each tr ip: the equivalent of US$150 for neighboring countries, including Uru- guay; of US$300 for other Latin American coun- tries; and of US$1,000 for all other countries. Banks may also sell exchange for living expenses of students abroad (in addition to tu i t ion) in amounts up to US$150-200 a month. Applications for exchange for other invisibles or for unusually large amoun ts require the prior approval of the Central Bank. Travelers may take out any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Exports and Export Proceeds Certain exports require licenses, in order to assure domestic supplies. The proceeds of exports must be collected within 180 days after comple- tion of shipping formalities, and the exchange sold to an authorized commercial bank; there are no legal sanctions for noncompliance with this requ iremen t. For all exports m in imum surrender prices (aforos) are established; these prices, on which any fiscal charges are based, are of an indicative character, and the fu ll export proceeds should be surrendered. Producers of coffee are permitted to retain 50 per cent of their export proceeds; such retained proceeds may only be used to meet dividend and interest payments due to nonresidents and to pay for imports of machinery and equipment for the producers' own use. Most exports are subject to taxes payable in guaran íes of 1V2 per cent, 5 per cent, or 2l/2 per cent of the f.o.b. value; these taxes are collected by the banks. Exports of meat products are 395 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PARAGUAY exempt, but a single tax of 0 515 per head of cattle slaughtered is levied on the meat processing plants. Proceeds from invisibles There are no surrender requ iremen ts in respect of the exchange proceeds from invisibles. Travel- ers may br ing in any amount in foreign or domestic currency. Capital All inward and outward transfers must be recorded by the authorized banks. Au thor ized banks may free ly grant exchange for con trac tual capital transfers, subject to production of appro- pr ia te documen ta t ion. Other ou twa rd t rans fe rs of capital require the prior approval of the Central Bank; in some instances, the Central Bank may stipulate that paymen ts be made in ins ta l lmen ts. Decree-Law No. 246 of February 25, 1955, the Capital Inves tment Law, empowers the Govern- ment to grant special tax, customs, and advance deposit concessions to proposed private foreign investments, provided that these are registered; the terms may va ry from case to case. The Central Bank has established a limit on the net utilization of short-term foreign credit lines by the National Development Bank and the commer- cial banks. The regulations do not provide for ou tward transfers of capital by residents who are private persons. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm, in Paraguay or abroad. Exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require the prior approval of the Central Bank, which is seldom granted to residents other than the mone- tary authorities and indus tr ial users. The import of gold does not require an import license but payments must be carried out through an author- ized bank. Changes during 1969 January 1. By v ir tue of Decree No. 2203 imports of specified wire and wire products were prohibited. January 30. The reciprocal credit under the agreement with Mexico was increased from US$200,000 to US$250,000. 396 February 1. Law No. 69 of December 26, 1968 introduced a sales tax levied at d ifferent rates on domestic and imported goods. Some essential imports were exempt, and all other imports were subject to the tax at rates of 5 per cent or 10 per cent. March 31. Decree-Law No. 17 increased the tax on purchases and sales of foreign exchange from l/2 of 1 per cent to 1 per cent. April 14. The Central Bank by Resolution No. 10, Act No. 61, prohibited the authorized banks f rom accepting financing for advance import deposits from foreign banks. April 24. The reciprocal credit under the agreement w i th Peru was increased from US$200,000 to US$250,000. July 1. The exchange rate for settlements through the clearing account with Spain was changed from 0 125 to (3 126 per US$1. July 31. The reciprocal credit under the agree- ment w i th Argen t ina was increased from US$1 million to US$1.25 million. September 22. The net short-term foreign indebtedness of the commercial banks was limited to 80 per cent of the ir capital and reserves. They were given three months to comply with this requirement (Resolution No. 6, Act No. 154). November 12. The Central Bank by Resolu- tion No. 37, Act No. 187, prohibited private banks from financing imports of specified nones- sential commodities. Individual ceilings were established for their financing of imports of all other goods. The total amount of such credits could not exceed the level of a bank's import credit on October 31, 1969. With effect from March 2, 1970, each bank's import credit would be limited to 30 per cent of its total credit volume. November 17. The Central Bank by Resolu- tion No. 38, Act No. 187, prohibited the author- ized banks from accepting advance import depos- its financed by foreign banks or firms. December 30. The banks were granted an additional six months to comply with the require- ment introduced on September 22. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Exchange Rate System On December 18, 1946, a par value for the Peruvian Sol was established by Peru with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There is a dual exchange market with two fluctuating exchange rates, an exchange certificate market rate applying to all trade transactions and speci- fied nontrade transactions, including the principal capital movements, and a d r a ft ma rket ra te for services and most other non trade transactions; the former rate has been pegged since October 1967. The foreign exchange requ iremen ts of the public sector are met entirely through the certifi- cate marke t. Export proceeds must be converted into exchange certificates, which are valid for three days and are issued in U.S. dollars only. These exchange certificates are negotiable in the certificate market and may be used to pay for imports and for certain non trade transactions. When approved applications for certificates exceed the supply, the Central Reserve Bank sells foreign exchange at the certificate market rate without any delay. All exchange transactions that do not qualify for the certificate market are per- mitted freely in the d ra ft market. All payments that are eligible for the purchase of exchange cer- tificates may alternatively be made through the draft market. The banks are required to quote a single rate for buy ing and selling certificates, but they may charge a commission of 1A of 1 per cent on certificate sales. On December 31, 1969 the certificate market rate was S/. 38.70 per US$1 and the d ra ft market rate was S/. 43.40 buying, and S/. 43.60 selling, per US$1. A stamp tax of 1 per cent is payable on most outward remittances; the principal exemption is for remittances in respect of foreign financing of imports and exports. Peru accepted the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Export licenses are issued by the Directorate of Foreign Trade in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. Exchange licenses permitting the use of certificates for nontrade transactions are issued by the Central Reserve Bank, except in the case of profit remittances by branches of foreign com- panies, which require approval by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exchange certificates are issued by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru. Exchange certificate transactions are carried out through commercial banks; d ra ft market transac- tions are conducted freely through banks and vari- ous other dealers, or directly between sellers and buyers. For statistical purposes, banks and exchange dealers must inform the Superinten- dency of Banks of all purchases and sales of exchange. All imports and payments for services by the public sector require the approval of the Commission on External Transactions for the Public Sector and a resolution of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. Borrowing abroad by the public sector is subject to prior approval by the Commission on External Credit and the visa of the Directorate-General of Public Credit of the M in is try of Economy and Finance. Prescription of Currency All export proceeds must be received in con- vertible currencies; exchange certificates at pres- ent are only issued in U.S. dollars, but the central bank is empowered to issue certificates denomi- nated in any convertible currency. No other prescription of currency requirements are in force. Payments between Peru and Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Mexico, and Paraguay may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru and the central banks concerned, w i th in the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system. imports and Import Payments All imports from Cuba are prohibited. The import of a number of consumer durable goods and other commodities considered nonessential is prohibited from any source. All other commodi- ties may be imported freely without a license. Public sector agencies, however, may not place import orders without the prior approval of the Commission on External Transactions and the 397 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU Ministry of Economy and Finance. Exchange cer- tificates may be u t i l ized for payment for imports through the commercial banks, which receive for- eign currency against delivery of the certificates. The commercial banks must present evidence that the entire amount represented by the certificates will be used for the importation of merchandise. Imports under documen ta ry letters of credit or on a documen tary collection basis, but not open account imports (except those effected before October 9, 1967), may be paid with cer t if ica tes. The relative sh ipp ing documen ts and the b i ll of lad ing must be fo rwa rded to a commercial bank and presented to the Central Reserve Bank for registration and va l ida t ion. A m a r i t ime f re ight tax of 4 per cent of the ocean f re ight charges is levied on goods imported by sea other than ce r ta in agri- cu l tural and medical products, books, and coins. Payments for most imports are subject to an im- port surcharge of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue. Payments for Invisibles Au tho r iza t ion is requ ired in order to pay for invisibles with certificates or at the certificate rate. The transac t ions in invisibles that are eligi- ble for the certificate ma rket include government paymen ts and paymen ts by fore ign companies in respect of the following: rem i t tance of profits, depletion and depreciation allowances, head office expenses, remunera t ion of technicians h ired abroad, and other con t rac tual obligations, whe ther a l ready contracted or to be contracted in the f u t u r e. Rem i t tances of net profits and of depletion and depreciation allowances requ ire a resolution of the M in i s t ry of Economy and Fi- nance, a prior tax clearance, and the visa of the Central Reserve Bank. Exchange for paymen ts that are not eligible for exchange cer t if ica tes may be freely obtained in the d r a ft m a rk e t. Air and sea passages are subject to a 5 per cent s tamp tax. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Cuba are prohibited. All exports are subject to license to assure the necessary supply of export proceeds to the certificate ma rke t. Export proceeds must be received in U.S. dollars. Trad i t ional exports must be sold against an irrevocable letter of credit conf irmed by a bank established in Peru; the latter must surren- der the foreign exchange proceeds within ten 398 work ing days of paymen t. In special cases, and w i th the au thor iza t ion of the Central Reserve Bank and the Directorate of Foreign Trade, exports may be sold against sight d ra f t s, provided that payment is received w i th in 180 days of ship- men t. All exports other than agr icu l tural prod- ucts, fishmeal, and fish oil are subject to payment of 10 per cent of the f.o.b. va lue, which is chargeable against fu tu re paymen ts of p ro f it tax. Non t rad i t ional exports are granted tax re fund certificates equ iva lent to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value (18 per cent when they are shipped in Peru- v ian vessels). Proceeds from invisibles Pub l ic sector en t i t ies must surrender the ir full receipts at the cer t if ica te rate. All other receipts from invisibles are free of control and may be sold in the d r a ft marke t. Capital In addition to government payments, certain cap i tal paymen ts on pr iva te account may be effected through the certificate ma rke t. The use of exchange certificates may be au tho r ized for the amor t iza t ion of foreign loans contracted by the pr iva te sector, provided that the foreign exchange proceeds of the loan have been surrendered to the Cen tral Reserve Bank. Where such debt was contracted before October 9, 1967, certificate exchange may be allotted by the Central Reserve Bank only to public u t i l i ty enterprises, to earners of foreign exchange, for payment of debts to in te rna t ional organizations, and for payment of debts guaran teed by the State. Interest payments on loans for wh ich amortization may be transferred through the cer t if ica te ma rket may also be made at the certificate rate. All other capital payments may be effected free ly through the d r a ft market, in which inward and outward capital transfers by residents and nonresidents may be effected with- out control. New foreign investments must be registered w i th the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Com- merce to have access to the certificate market for prof it rem i t tance and capital repatriation and to enjoy tax incentives under Peru's promotional laws. Law No. 13270 of November 30, 1959, the Industrial Promotion Law, provides that the Executive may raise import duties on foreign products to encourage and develop existing or new industries. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Peru or abroad. Residents and nonresidents may freely import and export gold in any form. Imports of gold by the mone- tary au thor i t ies and by authorized indus tr ial and professional users, and all exports of gold, are settled in the certificate market. Payment for all other purchases of gold abroad must be made through the d r a ft market. Changes during 1969 January 1. Decree-Law No. 17330 provided that the share capital of banks to be established in Peru in f u t u re must belong to Peruv ian physical or ju r id ical persons. January 29. Supreme Decree No. 0099-69- HC/DH prohibited the importation of certain man-made fibers. January. Circular No. (c) 2-6-DD/l of the Ministry of Foreign A f fa i rs lifted the import prohibitions on about ten tar iff items. March 5. Imports of rice became a government monopoly. March 14. By Decree-Law No. 17475 applica- tions for au thor iza t ion to use foreign exchange certificates for mak ing paymen ts in respect of profits, depreciation, depletion, amor t iza t ion, or office expenses abroad required approval by the M in is try of Finance a f ter prior processing by the Central Reserve Bank. As a result, certain arrears arose in respect of current paymen ts through the certificate marke t. They were removed by August. March 19. By Supreme Decree No. 037-69-HC, a new board, the Jun ta Calificadora, which was empowered to pass upon applications for the use of exchange certificates prior to their approval by the Central Reserve Bank, was set up in the Ministry of Finance. March 25. Decree-Law No. 17535 extended un t il March 31, 1970 the import prohibitions established by Decree No. 202-68-HC April 77. By Supreme Decree No. 050-69-HC persons obliged to surrender to the Central Reserve Bank the foreign exchange proceeds from their exports could pay their income tax either PERU with exchange certificates or in soles at the aver- age certificate rate ruling on the day of payment. May 6. Decree-Law No. 17631 created in the M in is try of Finance a Commission on External Credit to take over the external debt control func t ions of the Council of External Transactions for the Public Sector. May 26. The Andean Agreement for subre- gional economic in teg ra t ion was signed by Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. May 27. Decree-Law No. 17665 exempted imports of capital goods from the 10 per cent impo rt surcharge, provided that (a) equivalent goods could not be obtained locally; (b) the imports would be financed for at least 90 per cent outside Peru, and the loan period would be at least four years; (c) the interest rate was not more than 3 per cent above the pr ime rate in the supplier coun t ry; and (d) repayments would be made in equal installments. May 27. By Decree-Law No. 17664 the 10 per cent import surcharge, which constituted an exchange tax and was collected by the Central Reserve Bank, was replaced by a 10 per cent ta r i ff surcharge collected through the customs. June 17. Decree-Law No. 17710 consolidated the existing regulations concerning the exchange certificate system. The government screening agency ( Jun ta Calificadora) was abolished. In principle, the export of t rad i t ional products nor- ma l ly requ ired the opening of an irrevocable letter of credit by the foreign buyer and its con- firmation by a bank established in Peru. June 17. Decree-Law No. 17712 guaranteed to m in ing companies the availability of certificate exchange stemming from their own exports to cover specified transfers, subject to certain condi- tions. Comp lemen tary regulations were issued by Supreme Decree No. 102-69-EF of July 8, 1969. June. Supreme Decree No. 071-69-HA restricted credit granted by Peruvian banks to branches and affiliates of foreign companies in Peru. September 17. Supreme Decree No. 134-69-EF broadened the existing impo rt proh ib i t ions to include approximately 150 additional tariff items. October 7. Supreme Decree No. 150-69-EF set fo r th imp lemen t ing regulations pe r ta in ing to Decree-Law No. 17710. 399 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PERU November IL Decree No. 248-69-AP estab- lished that all export sales contracts for fishmeal must be registered at the M in is try of Agr icu l ture and Fisheries w i th in 24 hours of their conclusion. November 14. Supreme Decree No. 165-69-EF prohibited exports against sight d ra ft except in "justified" cases. November. Commercial banks were no longer permitted to use the ir gold holdings as a legal reserve asset against local currency liabilities. December. Non t rad i t ional exports were entitled to transferable tax re fund certificates equivalent to 15 per cent of the f.o.b. value (18 per cent when shipped in Peruvian vessels). December 30. Supreme Decree No. 016-69-TC provided shipping conditions which imports with fu ll or partial tariff exemption had to meet. In principle, shipment in Peruvian vessels was prescribed. December 31. Decree No. 18079 provided new regulations for the assembly of automobiles and prohibited in principle the importation of auto- mobiles; exemptions from this prohibition were specified. 400 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES * Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.227864 gram of fine gold per Ph i l ipp ine Peso or P 3.90 = US$1. The official l im i ts established by the Central Bank of the Ph i l ipp ines for its dealings with banks are P 3.8805 buy ing, and P 3.9195 selling, per US$1. Only authorized agent banks may purchase and sell foreign exchange. In spot transactions with their customers, authorized agent banks are per- mitted to quote m in imum and maximum buy ing rates of P 3.8610 and P 3.9195 per U.S. dollar, and m i n im um and m a x im um selling rates of P 3.8805 and P 3.9390 per U.S. dollar, respec- tively. Exchange rates for other authorized cur- rencies purchased by the Central Bank are based on the spot buy ing or selling rates in New York for the currency concerned at the close of the day prior to the ac tual purchase in Man i la, and the Central Bank's current spot buy ing or selling rates for the U.S. dollar. Prem iums and discounts on fo rwa rd exchange transactions are, in prin- ciple, le ft to the interplay of market forces, but the Central Bank engages in straight and swap forward exchange transac t ions (up to one y e a r) with authorized agent banks at the in te rbank spot rate with fixed premiums. Certain firms which before Janua ry 19, 1962 w i th the prior approval of the Monetary Board contracted loans or incurred deferred paymen ts obligations for imports of capital equ ipment at a rate not exceeding P 3.20 per US$1 are allowed to l iqu ida te these obligations by buy ing foreign exchange from authorized agent banks at the official rate of P 3.90 per US$1, w i th the Central Bank re fund ing the d ifference. Administration of Control Exchange regulations are administered by the Central Bank, and applications for foreign exchange in respect of many noncommercial pay- ments and transfers must be submitted to the * On F eb ru a ry 21, 1970 an exchange re fo rm took place. A free exchange ma rket was created for all inter- na t ional transac t ions, w i th the exception that 80 per cent of the proceeds f rom specified lead ing export products con t inued to be subject to su r render at the par va lue. The reform was accompanied by a re laxa t ion of restrictions on trade and paymen ts. On May 1, the 80 per cent surrender requ i rement was replaced by an export tax. Central Bank. Furthermore, all imports not included in one of four special categories require the prior approval of the Central Bank. The Cen- t ral Bank issues circulars and memoranda to the authorized agent banks on the basis of policy decisions reached by the Mone tary Board.1 Cer- ta in new foreign direct or portfolio investment in the Ph i l ipp ines requires the prior approval of the Board of Investments. Prescription of Currency There are no prescription of currency require- men ts for outgoing paymen ts, but all exchange proceeds f rom exports must be obtained in Cana- d ian dollars, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Ital- ian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, Swiss francs, or U.S. dollars. Exports to Indone- sia must be invoiced in U.S. dollars. Most pay- ments and transfers to Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Bank accounts denominated in pesos may be opened in the name of nonresidents, whether ind iv idual or corporate, w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank. They may be opened v i r tu a l ly w i thout restriction, except in respect of arbitrage operations. Nonresident accounts are permitted to be credited only w i th the proceeds from inward remittances of foreign exchange or convertible foreign currencies. Banks are p roh ib i ted f rom selling fore ign exchange for pesos tendered by or on behalf of nonresidents in arb i trage operations. Orders to pay against, or w i thdrawa ls f rom, nonresident accounts which would involve the rem i t tance of foreign exchange for the purpose of capital t rans fe rs and/or trans- fers of earn ings, profits, and dividends to nonresi- dents are pe rm i t ted in pr inc ip le, provided that application forms and necessary supporting evi- dence as required are subm i t ted; at present, some rem i t tances or t rans fe rs are subject to a system of foreign exchange priorities. 1 Du r ing 1970, all foreign payments and transfers must take place w i t h in the f ramewo rk of a qua r te r ly foreign exchange budget d rawn up by the Central Bank. 401 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia and South A f r i ca are proh ib i ted. Impor ts of ce r ta in ag r icu l tu ral com- modities f rom any source are proh ib i ted for pro- tective reasons. Impor ters of motorcar assembly pa r ts opera te vo lun ta ry import cu tback a r range- ments. S im i lar a r rangemen ts exist for impo r te rs of appliances, tex t i les, and liquors. There are no other q u a n t i t a t i ve res tr ic t ions on impor ts, except imports of gold; however (w i th the exception of a few commod i t ies that may s t i ll be impor ted on documen ts aga inst acceptance (D /A ), documen ts against paymen ts (D /P ), or open account t e rm s ), all impo r ts mu st be covered by le t ter of cred i t, and, un less pr ior approval for an excep t ion is given by the Cen tral Bank, the open ing of an import le t ter of credit is pe rm i t ted for only f o ur categories of commod i t ies (essen t ial producer goods, essential consumer goods, semiessential producer goods, and nonessential producer goods) and for the genu ine impo rt needs of indus t r ies des igna ted as expor t-or ien ted. Impo r ts in excess of US$100 must be covered by letters of credit opened on or before the date of ship- men t, w i th the exception of commod i t ies exempt from advance deposit (see be low) and cer ta in "no-dollar" impo r ts ( impo r ts financed by impor t- ers' own foreign exchange or not invo lv ing pay- men ts f rom the P h i l i p p i n e s ). A few specified commodities, however, may be imported und er D/A, D/P, and open account a r rangemen t s. Impor ts f rom Indones ia mu st be covered by an irrevocable letter of credit in U.S. do l lars. Advance deposits in the fo rm of cash ma rg in deposits ("special t ime deposits") are requ ired on the open ing of impo rt le t ters of cred i t, as fol- lows: 25 per cent for essential p roducer goods; 50 per cent for essential consumer goods; 75 per cent for semiessential producer goods; 100 per cent for semiessential consumer and nonessential producer goods; 125 per cent for semiunclassified producer goods; 150 per cent for nonessential consumer goods and semiunclassified consumer goods; and 175 per cent for unclassified producer goods and unc lass if ied consumer goods. Exempt from the cash ma rg in deposit requ iremen ts are imports of mach inery and equ ipment and spare par ts and supplies for the use of export indus tr ies and export-oriented indus tr ies. The deposits are collected by the banks when issuing release certif- 402 icates and they are held for 90 or 120 days, depend ing on the commod i ty. Banks must keep a 100 per cent reserve against the deposits. The open ing of import letters of credit by banks is l im i ted to four categories of imports (essen t ial producer goods, essential consumer goods, semiessential p roducer goods, and non- essen t ial producer goods). The aggregate letters of cred it opened in each mon th by each bank must not exceed 55 per cent of the average mon th ly total le t te rs of cred it opened by that b ank du r ing the period October 1, 1968 to March 31, 1969.2 Export indu s t r i es and export-oriented indus tr ies may open le t ters of credit for all the ir leg i t ima te requ i remen ts, subject to approval. For certain essential consumer goods, the Central Bank approves a flat amount a week or a mon th, irrespec t ive of the ceilings. For categories of impo r ts not men t ioned above the opening of let- ters of cred it is p roh ib i ted. All imports other than those allowed und er Section 2 of C ircu lar No. 281 of November 26, 1969 requ i re prior authori- za t ion by the Cen tral Bank; such au tho r iza t ion is not no rm a l ly gran ted. Cap i tal goods purchased under contracts dated June 26, 1967 or before may be impor ted with- out cover ing letters of credit whe ther the ship- ment had l e ft the port of origin before that date or not. Before goods can be cleared through the cus- toms, the impor ter mu st present, as a rule, a release ce r t i f ica te issued by the Central Bank th rough an au tho r ized agent bank to show that all customs du t ies, taxes, and other levies assessed by the Bu reau of Customs that are payable upon impo r ta t ion of the merchand ise have been col- lected by the authorized agent bank. Certain "no-dollar" imports are exempt from the release cer t if ica te requ iremen t. Payments for invisibles V i r tua l ly all paymen ts to Rhodesia are prohib- ited. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel abroad by residents, rem i t tances for educational expenses, ma in tenance, and expenses of depend- 2 For importers who are also producers, the base period was on January 12, 1970 changed to the calendar year 1968. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ents abroad of residents, medical expenses, remittances of profits, dividends, and earnings of property of nonresidents are only allowed pur- suant to guidelines promulgated by the Cen tral Bank. Remittances, under existing agreements, by foreign shipping and airline companies and by telephone and telegraph companies, as well as remittances of film and other rentals, royalties, insurance and reinsurance premiums, and certain miscellaneous remittances covered by existing agreements, are also permitted, but only under guidelines promulgated by the Central Bank. The Central Bank services existing obligations of resi- dents, corporate or otherwise, to the extent of available foreign exchange resources and ex- pected foreign exchange receipts and in accord- ance w i th such priorities as the Monetary Board may deem necessary and reasonable. An applica- tion to purchase foreign exchange exceeding US$100 must be accompanied by a sworn state- ment concerning the purpose of such purchase and the bank selling the exchange must certify that the rem i t tance is being made for the purpose stated in the application; for prof it and dividend remittances, additional supporting documentation must also be submitted to the bank selling the exchange. Exchange for tourist and business travel abroad is made available as follows: (1) US$500 a year for each adult resident for travel to A f r ica, North and South America, Australia, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, and New Zealand; and (2) US$200 a year for each adult resident for travel to Guam, Hong Kong, Oki- nawa, the Republic of China, or any other neigh- boring country. The following limits apply to exchange for educational expenses abroad, remit- table in quarterly installments: for studies in the United States, US$250 a month for living and other out-of-school expenses, plus the cost of tui- tion, books, laboratory fees, and other school charges; for studies in Aus tra l ia, Europe, Japan, and New Zealand, US$200 a mon th; for studies in other areas applications are considered on a case-by-case basis subject to the prior approval of the Central Bank. Any scholarship allowances are deducted from these amounts. Applications for the remittance of foreign exchange to cover medi- cal and hospitalization expenses must be referred to the Central Bank for prior approval. Estab- lished limits apply for remittances to dependents living abroad (when living in Asia or Europe; PHILIPPINES applications for those living elsewhere are consid- ered on their m e r i t s ), and pensions, gratuities, and proceeds of income earned within the Philip- pines accruing to nonresidents living abroad (up to US$150 a month for each bene f ic ia ry ). Appli- cations for certain invisibles for which no basic allowance has been set are considered on their merits by the Central Bank. No person may take out or export from the Philippines foreign currency or any other foreign exchange except as otherwise authorized by the Central Bank. Residents may take out, as part of their travel allowance, up to US$100 in foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount of foreign currency that they had previously brought in and declared, m inus any amoun ts converted in to pesos. Resident and non- resident travelers require prior authorization from the Central Bank to take out more than P 500 in domestic currency, of which not more than P 5 may consist of domestic silver and/or nickel coins. Exports and Export Proceeds Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain strategic materials and items deemed essential for industrialization and eco- nomic development are also prohibited. Other- wise, exports are generally not restricted, but they are regulated to ensure that the foreign exchange proceeds are surrendered to an authorized agent of the Central Bank. Authorized agent banks issue the necessary export permits upon receipt of the exporter's report of foreign sales; export per- m i ts for copra and coconut oil, however, are only issued by the Central Bank. As a general rule, no commodity may be exported unless it is covered by a d ra ft drawn in one of the prescribed currencies and unless collection of the proceeds will be undertaken by an authorized agent bank; however, payment by means of telegraphic transfer, check, or mail transfer may be allowed. Payments for exports on a cash, collection, or consignment basis must be arranged through an authorized agent bank, which must specifically contract with the exporter to buy the exchange proceeds. Proceeds from exports must be received in the prescribed cur- rencies within 60 days from the date of shipment 403 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES (or within such period as may be established in special cases) and surrendered to the agent bank within one business day of receipt. An irrevoca- ble letter of credit is required for exports of scrap metals, copra, and coconut oil, and for all exports to Guam, Hong Kong, the Republic of China, and Japan. Exports of perishable com- modities to Hong Kong require prepayment. Exports to Indonesia must be invoiced in U.S. dollars. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles must be sold within one business day by the recipient to an author- ized agent bank. Philippine nationals employed abroad are permitted to open U.S. dollar deposit accounts with the Central Bank or authorized agent banks, in which they may retain any U.S. dollars they remit to the Philippines. To be eligi- ble for credit to such accounts at the Central Bank, the earnings must be transferred through Philippine diplomatic or consular establishments. Travelers may freely bring in any amount of for- eign currency and up to F 500 in domestic cur- rency, of which not more than P 50 may consist of Philippine coins. Capital Virtually all payments and transfers to Rhode- sia are prohibited. There are no restrictions on inward capital movements, but any foreign exchange received must be surrendered within one business day, unless it constitutes an inward remittance by a Philippine national abroad for deposit at the Central Bank or at an authorized agent bank. Except as otherwise specifically authorized, resident persons, firms, or corporations may not enter into any contract or transaction which may involve settlement in foreign exchange, or involv- ing any assets belonging to them expressed in for- eign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. This restriction also applies to contracts or trans- actions involving assets within the Philippines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corpo- ration, and to their exportation or importation. Detailed regulations are in force concerning transactions in securities between residents and nonresidents. For sales of foreign exchange for 404 outward capital transfers (repatriation of invest- ments of nonresident investors, overseas invest- ments of Philippine residents, or transfers of assets of prospective emigrants), authorized agent banks must request the applicant to substantiate by means of documentary evidence (such as income tax returns, deeds of sale, and financial statements) that the remittance sought is in fact intended for the purpose stated in the application, and, where remittances by nonresidents of invest- ment income or liquidation proceeds of invest- ments are concerned, that foreign exchange for the original purchase of the securities was remit- ted to the Philippines and sold to an authorized agent bank; furthermore, many types of transfer are currently subject to a priority system. The Central Bank audits most outward capital trans- fers ex post. Also, all applicants for foreign exchange exceeding US$100 must submit a sworn statement concerning the purpose of the payment, and the export of domestic banknotes and coins is restricted. Commercial banks or other institutions may extend or receive credit abroad to finance bona fide foreign transactions. However, nonresident accounts may be credited only through inward remittances or foreign exchange. The Central Bank controls and limits the use of stand-by letters of credit when the facilities are to be used to meet financing requirements in Philippine cur- rency, rather than for trade or production pur- poses. Under the Investment Incentives Act of 1967, all investors in enterprises registered with the Board of Investments are guaranteed the right to repatriate their investments, and to remit earnings thereon and sums needed to meet payments of principal and interest on foreign loans; they are also guaranteed freedom from expropriation and requisition. There are different arrangements for "pioneer investments" and "preferred invest- ments"; the former are granted certain incentives over and above those given to "preferred invest- ments." Normally, enterprises owned or controlled by foreigners are permitted to operate only in "pioneer areas of investment," and normally at least 60 per cent of the voting capital stock of registered enterprises in "preferred areas of investment" (mainly investments related to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exploitation of export-oriented na tural resources and the manufac tur ing of import substitutes) must be owned by Philippine nationals. By virtue of the Laurel-Langley Agreement, U.S. citizens, corporations, and associations are given the same status for this purpose as Philippine citizens until July 1974. Under the Foreign Investment Law of 1968, new enterprises in which investment by non-Fili- pinos exceeds 30 per cent and which are not cov- ered by the Investment Incentives Act must obtain au thor i ty from the Board of Investments in order to engage in any economic activity in the Philippines. If purchases of shares of common stock by foreign nationals would reduce Philippine ownership in a firm to less than 30 per cent, per- mission from the Board must first be obtained. Gold Producers of gold must sell their entire ou tput to the Central Bank at the equivalent of US$35 an ounce (calculated at P 3.90 per U.S. dollar) to be eligible for assistance under the Gold Industry Assistance Act, irrespective of whether this gold is a by-product or the principal or only product of their operations. Gold that is a by- product may either be sold to the Central Bank or in the free market, while gold that is either a firm's only product or its principal product must be sold to the Central Bank. With this exception, residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm in the Philippines. Residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase abroad gold in any form other than jewelry. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Changes during 1969 January 1. The ceiling (equal to the Octo- ber 12, 1968 level) on the total of each bank's out- standing import letters of credit and customers' liability acceptances in connection with imports was extended to February 28, 1969. January 1. The advance deposit requirements for imports imposed by Circular No. 260 of PHILIPPINES June 11, 1968 were extended to February 28, 1969 by Circular No. 268. January 7. The Central Bank announced that exemptions from the ceilings on foreign currency letters of credit would be granted only for imports on a deferred payments basis either for dollar-earning industries or for infras truc ture projects included in the Government's develop- ment program. January 7. Importers of completely knocked down automobiles were requested un t il fur ther notice not to open import letters of credit. Similar requests were addressed to importers of appli- ances, textiles, and liquors. The petroleum indus- try was requested to stretch out its import pay- ments. February 2. Import duties on crude petroleum were doubled; those on light, medium, and heavy oils also were raised. February 3. Certain regulations for the imple- mentation of the Foreign Investment Law went into effect. February 10. The auto-assembly industry agreed to a voluntary cutback of imports of com- pletely knocked down vehicles. Each firm would have a quota of 50 per cent of the letters of credit it had opened in 1968 or, if in 1968 imports had been US$50,000 or less, 50 per cent of the highest annual amount of letters of credit opened in the years 1962 through 1967 plus 50 per cent of that for 1968. Letters of credit for completely knocked down material could again be opened. February 28. The ceiling on banks' import let- ters of credit (see January 1, above) was extended un t il June 30, 1969. February 28. The advance deposit require- ments for imports were extended to June 30, by Circular No. 269. March 11. Subject to certain conditions, letters of credit opened by Filipino contractors for imports of construction materials and supplies for use in projects covered by contracts with U.S. Government agencies were exempted from advance deposits and excluded from the ceiling on foreign currency letters of credit. 405 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES March 18. Imports of commodities under Title IV of U.S. P.L. 480 could be excluded f rom the ceiling on foreign currency letters of credit. April 10. Rules and regu la t ions were issued to govern proceedings in the Ta r i ff Commission for the es tab l ishment of import quotas or imposition of other import restrictions under Section 402 of Republic Act 1937, as amended by Republic Act 5452. April 14. Shipments to the Ph i l ipp ines f rom any coun t ry had to be accompanied by an Exporter's Letter of Credit Cer t if ica te. If pay- ment was not to be by letter of c red i t, the method of payment had to be noted on the ce r t i f- icate. April 16. The ceiling on foreign cu r rency let- ters of cred it and related accounts was con t inued in force for a f u r t h er period of six mon ths and the ceilings were put on a mon th ly basis. It was f u r t h er provided that the aggregate letters of credit subject to ceiling which could be opened du r ing any one mon th could not exceed the aver- age mon th ly total of letters of credit opened by the bank concerned d u r i ng the period October 1, 1968 to March 31, 1969. These l im i ts hencefor th applied separa te ly to (a) o rd in a ry le t ters of credit and (b) de fe r red -payment letters of cred it in respect of mach ine ry and equ ipmen t. At a sub- sequent da te, categories would be established w i th in the ce i l ing for regu lar letters of cred it to provide a reasonable increase for the impo r ta t ion of raw m a t e r i a ls for essential indus tr ies. April 16. The de f in i t ion of export-oriented indus tr ies was broadened and they were exempted for imports of mach ine ry and equip- ment only, f rom the ce i l ing on import letters of credit, and from the advance deposit require- ments. April 16. The ceilings on the foreign cu r rency liabilities of commercial banks and on the ir peso-dollar swap arrangemen ts with the Central Bank were l i f t ed: moreover, au thor ized banks were permitted to use their foreign credit lines freely for fore ign acceptance credits. To encour- age the use of the peso-dollar swap, the Central Bank reduced p rem iums on forward cover for swaps. 406 April 16. The requ iremen ts a f fec t ing banks' reserves against special time deposits were eased. The reserves could hence fo r th be held up to 100 per cent in the fo rm of government securities, provided t h at at least 50 per cent of these securi- ties were e l ig ib le to be held as reserves against regu lar deposits of banks. April 16. C ircu lar No. 271 reduced the period du r ing wh ich the banks were requ i red to hold the special t ime deposits from 120 days to 90 days for the fo l low ing categories of goods: essential producer goods, essential consumer goods, semi- essen t ial producer goods, semiessential consumer goods, nonessential producer goods, and semi- unc lass i f ied producer goods. Deposits which had been held more than 90 days against these goods were released. Nonessential consumer commodi- ties and o ther goods con t inued to be subject to the 120-day w i thho ld ing period. April 16. C ircu lar No. 270 revoked C ircu lar No. 266 of November 26, 1968. The l im it of P 100 a person on the export and impo rt of domes- tic cu r rency by travelers was removed. Hence- fo r th, no currency dec lara t ion was required from a r r iv ing or depa r t ing travelers. April 25. Circular No. 273 provided that incom ing and outgoing travelers could not with- out the p r ior au tho r iza t ion of the Central Bank b r ing in or take out Ph i l ipp ine notes, coins, checks, money orders, and other bills of exchange d rawn in pesos against banks ope ra t ing in the Ph i l ipp ines in an amount exceeding P 500. The ex is t ing l im i t a t i o ns on the import and export of domestic coins were ma in ta ined. April 25. Circular No. 274 extended the provi- sions of C i rcu lar No. 273 of the same date to the import or export by any person, firm, company, or corporation, of Philippine notes, coins, etc. April 29. W i th in the ceilings on foreign cur- rency le t ters of cred i t, items could freely be shifted f rom the regular letter of credit category to the deferred-payment category, but not vice versa. April 29. The amount of foreign exchange sold to a trave ler was required to be marked on his t icke t. No foreign exchange could be sold to holders of tickets so marked. The supervision over re funds on travel tickets was tightened. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution May. Arrangements were agreed with the United States aimed at channeling into the bank- ing system paymen ts received from U.S. sources by Ph i l ipp ine residents, such as social secur i ty payments, veterans' pensions, and contractors' receipts. U.S. agencies opera t ing in the Philip- pines would henceforth purchase their peso requirements from the Central Bank ra ther than from the commercial banks. May 13. Personal effects of Philippine nation- als re tu rn ing to the Philippines were made subject to a 100 per cent special time deposit to be held for 180 days. May 28. The Central Bank was prepared to enter into peso-dollar swap transac t ions w i th authorized agent banks for periods up to one year (previously up to 90 day s ). May 30. The bilateral payments arrangement with Indonesia expired. A new trade agreement was signed p rov id ing that paymen ts would take place in convertible currencies. June 9. The opening of import letters of credit was suspended. The suspension was l if ted on June 19. June 18. The Bankers' Association informed its members that foreign currency letters of credit could again be opened for certain classes of imports, un t il Ju ly 15, subject to a daily ceiling for each bank. June 19. Each bank's mon th ly ceiling on import letters of credit was reduced by 15 per- centage points to 85 per cent of that established on April 16, 1969. In addition, each bank observed a daily ceiling. June 19. The opening of letters of credit was resumed but was restricted to four categories of imports: essential producer goods, essential con- sumer goods, semiessential producer goods, and nonessential producer goods. The base period on which ceilings were calculated was October 1, 1968 to March 31, 1969. However, export indus- tries and export-oriented indus tr ies could open letters of credit to cover their fu ll genuine import requirements. July 1. Banks were advised that special time deposits on import letters of credit and ceilings on foreign currency letters of credit and related PHILIPPINES accounts would remain in force un t il the end of the year. July 1. Consular invoices and certificates of origin covering any shipment from the United States to the Philippines must be accompanied by a Statement of Payment indicating how paymen t, if any, was made or was to be made. This superseded, for the United States only, the Letter of Credit Statement. July 10. The Central Bank announced that it would sell forward exchange either on a swap basis or a s tra ight basis to cover agent banks' lia- bilities ar is ing f rom bankers' acceptance financ- ing. The forward rates posted daily by the Bank for swaps would also be applicable to transac- tions on a straightforward basis. July 16. The monthly ceiling on the opening of foreign currency letters of credit was reduced by a f u r t h er 15 percentage points to 70 per cent of that established on April 16, 1969. Banks were advised that henceforth they need not observe daily ceilings. August 29. The Central Bank requested for- eign firms operating in the Philippines to reduce voluntarily their remittances of profits. September 1. Import duties on many commod- ities were raised retroactively. September 5. Imports of spare parts for machinery and equipment were exempted from the special time deposit requirements. September 15. All imports of raw materials and supplies covered by financing arrangements that were guaranteed by the Development Bank of the Philippines required a letter of credit. October 1. Import letters of credit in excess of US$20,000 and not for machinery or equ ipment could not be opened if the first payment exceeded 20 per cent; the first payment could not be made before shipment, and the balance had to be spread over at least three years from the date of shipment. November 17. Each bank's monthly ceiling on import letters of credit was fu r th er reduced by 15 percentage points, to 55 per cent of the level established on April 16, 1969. Furthermore, each monthly ceiling henceforth was split into weekly availabilities. 407 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PHILIPPINES November 24. Agent banks were required to surrender da i ly to the Central Bank fo re ign exchange equ iva lent to the amount by which the ir foreign exchange holdings and other fore ign assets realizable on demand exceeded 25 per cent of specified ou t s tand ing foreign currency l iab i l i- ties. Surrender once a week was perm i t ted f rom December 3. November 24. The foreign exchange allow- ances for travel purposes were reduced. Au thor- ized banks hence fo r th could not sell more than US$500 or its equ iva len t, for each a d u lt res- ident and for each 12-month period, for t ravel to North Amer ica, South America, Europe, J ap an, Aus t ra l ia, New Zealand, A f r ica, or the M idd le East, and not more than US$200, for each adu lt resident and for each 12-month period, for travel to Hong Kong, the Republic of Ch ina, Ok inawa, Guam, or any other neighboring coun t ry. No allocations were announced for children. Pre- viously, children under 18 were entitled to 50 per cent of the basic tour ist travel allowance for adults. November 26. Circular No. 281 con t inued in force the mon th ly ceilings on fore ign currency letters of credit (covering the impor ta t ion of essential producer goods, essential consumer goods, semiessential producer goods, and non- essential producer goods on ly) but provided that the importation of any single un it of mach inery or equ ipment valued at more than US$50,000 required prior approval from the Central Bank. This circular made mandatory the ceiling system that hitherto had been operated under a "gentle- man's agreement" between the Central Bank and the Bankers' Association. Circular No. 282 of the same date established that all imports other than the four categories mentioned above required prior authorization from the Central Bank. All imports valued at more than US$100 (except those falling under Circular No. 247 of Ju ly 21, 1969, i.e., "no- dollar imports") had to be covered by letters of credit; accordingly, the authorization to import specified commodities on D/A, D/P, or open- account basis was revoked. All exemptions from special time deposit requirements were rescinded, except those for the importation of machinery and equipment (and spare parts and supplies for 408 machinery and equ ipmen t) for the use of export indus tr ies and export-oriented industries (as defined on April 16, 1969). November 26. Circular No. 281 provided that fore ign exchange for travel abroad of residents of the Ph i l ipp in e s, rem i t tances for educational expenses and s tudent ma in tenance abroad, ma in- tenance and expenses of dependents abroad of Ph i l ipp ine residents, medical expenses and ma in- tenance, as well as remittances of profits, divi- dends, and earnings of property of nonresidents, would on ly be granted in accordance with guide- lines to be promulgated by the Central Bank. Remittances, under existing agreements, of for- eign sh ipp ing and airline companies, cable and telephone companies, film and other rentals, roy- alties, insurance and reinsurance premiums, and other miscellaneous remittances under existing agreements would be allowed, but only in accord- ance w i th guidelines to be promulgated by the Cen tral Bank. Existing balances in peso accounts of foreign central banks and nonresident commercial banks w i th authorized agent banks could be freely debited, but such accounts could hencefor th be credited only through inwa rd fore ign exchange rem i t tances. Except to the ex tent authorized by the fore- going provisions of Circular No. 281, resident per- sons, firms, or corporations could not enter into any contract or transaction involving or which m ight involve settlement in foreign exchange, or invo lv ing any assets belonging to them expressed in foreign currencies or payable or deliverable abroad. Similarly, no person, firm, or corpora- t ion, whether a resident of the Philippines or not, could w i thout the prior approval of the Central Bank enter into any contract or transaction involving any assets existent within the Philip- pines belonging to a nonresident person, firm, or corporation, including, where applicable, their exportation or importation. The Central Bank would service existing obli- gations of residents, corporate or otherwise, to the extent of available foreign exchange resources and expected foreign exchange receipts, in accordance w i th such priorities as the Monetary Board might deem necessary and reasonable. The Central Bank would prepare projections of for- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution eign exchange receipts and adopt, periodically, budgets covering the various categories of foreign exchange expenditures and payments. All receipts of foreign exchange by any resi- dent person, firm, company, or corporation had to be sold to the authorized agents of the Central Bank by the recipients within one business day following receipt. Any resident person, firm, com- pany, or corporation residing or located within the Philippines, who acquires foreign exchange could not, unless authorized by the Central Bank, dispose of such foreign exchange in whole or in part, nor receive less than its fu ll value, nor delay taking ownership thereof except as such delay is customary, except to sell the exchange to an authorized bank. November 26. Circular No. 282 stated, with- out further particulars, that the purchase, sale, and transfer of securities was hereby permitted. November 27. All banks were authorized to accept demand, checking, and/or savings deposit accounts denominated in U.S. dollars in the names of Filipinos temporarily working and /or residing abroad. Such accounts could be funded only by inward remittances of dollars, w i thdraw- als for local disbursements could only take place in pesos, withdrawals for remittance abroad would be subject to sworn aff idav it regarding the purpose, and dollar deposits would be converted to peso deposits upon the holder's re turn. Interest could be paid either in pesos or U.S. dollars. On December 9, banks were informed that U.S. dollar accounts in the names of Philippine nation- als working in Viet-Nam could only be savings or time deposit accounts. December. Government banks were instructed not to extend any new loans or guarantees, including guarantees of foreign supplier credits, pending a reassessment of credit priorities. Guarantees already issued but not used were recalled. The Central Bank suspended its approval of new suppliers' credits. December 3. The exchange allocations were announced for living allowances for students PHILIPPINES abroad (US$250 a month for the United States; US$200 a month for Europe, Australia, New Zealand, and Japan; other areas case-by-case); ma in tenance for dependents abroad (in Asia US$50 a month for each dependent; in Europe US$150 a mon th for each dependent; other areas case-by-case); pensions, gratuities, and proceeds of income earned within the Philippines and accruing to nonresidents living abroad (up to US$150 a m o n t h ). The Central Bank would examine on their merits all applications for which case-by-case consideration was announced, and those for medical and hospitalization expenses. It was confirmed that persons under 18 were not entitled to travel funds. December 16. Specified essential commodities could again be imported on D/A, D/P, or open account terms. December 22. Circular No. 284 revoked Sec- tion 4 of C ircu lar No. 282, which had permitted the purchase, sale, and transfer of securities. December 24. Automobiles and other items of considerable value being brought in by returning residents who had stayed abroad less than a year were made subject to the special time deposit requirements by Circular No. 285. December 26. Detailed regulations were issued by Central Bank Memorandum regarding transac- tions in securities. Transactions involving a non- resident interest had to take place through the intermediary of an authorized security dealer. Definitions were provided of residents, foreign securities, Philippine securities, Philippine domes- tic securities, and Philippine foreign securities. Every sale, assignment, encumberance, transfer, or delivery of securities by a resident to a nonres- ident and every export of securities from the Philippines required approval by the Central Bank or by an authorized security dealer in cir- cumstances set out in the Memorandum. Such prior approval was also required for every sale of securities in the Philippines, or for delivery in the Philippines, by a nonresident, and for every pur- chase by a resident of any securities owned by a nonresident. 409 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0309103 gram of fine gold per Portuguese Escudo or Esc 28.75 = US$1. Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar, the pound sterling, and the other quoted cu r r en c i e s1 are based on the relative exchange rates in the inter- national exchange marke ts. Neither the Bank of Portugal nor the commercial banks charge buy ing or selling commissions. For settlements w i th countries w i th which Portugal has bilateral pay- ments ag reemen ts ,2 the U.S. dollar rate applies to transactions in "agreement dollars" ( f or Greece, Israel, and Tu rkey) and the pound ster- ling rate to transactions in "agreement pounds sterling" ( for Po l and ), wh i le f ixed exchange rates apply to other agreement currencies. Authorized banks may deal in foreign exchange w i th the Bank of Portugal. They are also norma l ly allowed to deal in foreign exchange w i th banks abroad at the rates p reva i l ing in the Portuguese foreign exchange ma rke t, but they are not expected to solicit such transactions in for- eign markets. They are not allowed to buy and sell foreign exchange among themselves, or to enter in to arbitrage operations in foreign marke ts. In dealing w i th the ir customers, the au thor ized banks buy and sell foreign exchange in converti- ble currencies for their own account; their pur- chases and sales of bilateral agreement currencies are made for the account of the Bank of Portu- gal. Purchases and sales of unquo ted currencies can only be made through an authorized bank acting on a commission basis. Banks are required to obtain the prior approval of the Bank of Por- tugal to accept deposits in foreign currencies from residents or nonresidents and to obtain short-term credits abroad. The banks may use their foreign exchange holdings for all authorized purposes, but the M in is try of Finance may set 1 The quoted currencies are Aus t r ian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Danish kroner, deu tsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne ther lands gu i lde rs, Norweg ian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Portugal has bilateral payments agreements w i th Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Israel, and Poland. Settlements w i th Greece and Turkey are also channeled through special accounts. 410 limits on the foreign exchange resources of the commerc ial banks, and in certain circumstances may require that foreign exchange assets be sold to the Bank of Portugal. Cap i tal held abroad by residents in the form of foreign exchange that is not subject to surrender requ i remen ts may be transferred to other resi- den ts th rough authorized commercial banks at o f f ic iai rates of exchange. Decree-Law No. 44699 of 1963 fo rb ids direct transac t ions in foreign ex- change between residents who are pr iva te persons. There is no forward exchange market in opera- tion in Portugal, but authorized banks may enter in to fo rwa rd transac t ions w i th ind iv idual custom- ers. The exchange ra tes for these transactions may not be h igher than the spot buy ing rate or lower than the spot selling rate of the same date, but the size of the commission is not prescribed. The commercial banks may cover open positions by entering into swap transactions with the Bank of Portugal. The escudos issued in the overseas territories are at par w i th the metropolitan escudo. The par- ity for the Macao pataca is Esc 4.75 = pataca 1. Interterritorial payments are subject to transfer charges collected by the credit ins t i tu t ions con- cerned which may not exceed 0.6 per cent; this l im it is 0.3 per cent for payments resulting from transactions expressed in foreign currencies and settled through another overseas territory or through metropolitan Portugal. In addition, inter- territorial payments are subject to a service charge payable to the agent of the interterritorial clearing and paymen ts system and to a service charge of l/2 of 1 per cent in favor of the exchange funds of the overseas provinces concerned. Exchange Control Territory Portugal and the Portuguese overseas territo- ries cons t i tu te a single exchange control territory, the Portuguese Monetary Area. The exchange control regulations of Portugal are for the most pa rt applied un i fo rm ly throughout the Area, and current paymen ts between the various territories are made free ly through multilateral clearing accounts. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the M in is try of Finance and the Bank of Portugal, with the assistance of the commercial banks authorized for this purpose. Trade control policy is formu la ted by the Commission of Economic Coordination in the M in is try of Economy. A Directorate-General of Commerce in the Ministry of Economy adminis- ters the trade control; import and export licenses ("bulletins") are issued by the Foreign Trade Division, operating w i th in the office of the Direc- torate-General, or by other executive departments duly authorized. Licenses for imports of certain goods included in the negative list are issued by economic coordination departments associated with the Ministry of Economy. Practically all for- eign trade transactions are subject to registration with the M in is try of Economy. Prescription of Currency Transactions with countries with which Portu- gal does not have bilateral payments agreements may be settled in any of the currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal (see footnote 1) or, for Portuguese exports, in escudos to the debit of a Demand Foreign Account in Escudos (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, below. Transac- tions with countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 2) are settled through clearing accounts maintained in U.S. dollars ( for Greece, Israel, and Tu rkey ), in pounds sterling (for Po land), or in escudos or the currency of the partner country ( for Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, and Hunga ry ). In exceptional cases, payments to nonresidents may be made by crediting escudos to a nonresident account, subject to prior approval by the Bank of Portugal. Nonresident Accounts The main categories of nonresident accounts are as follows: "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are divided into (1) "Time Foreign Accounts in PORTUGAL Escudos," for which the opening, debiting, and crediting are subject to special advance authoriza- tion of the Bank of Portugal, and (2) "Demand Foreign Accounts in Escudos," which may be opened, debited, and credited without prior authorization of the Bank of Portugal for (a) payments for transactions expressed in escudos and du ly authorized in that currency, for imports and exports of goods, services, and capital between metropolitan Portugal and foreign coun- tries,3 (b) purchases or sales of escudos against the foreign currencies quoted by the Bank of Portugal,4 and (c) transfers between these accounts. For all other debit and credit opera- tions, au thor iza t ion of the Bank of Portugal is required. The g ran t ing of credit in the form of over- d r a f ts on the above accounts for periods of one year or less requires the authorization of the Bank of Portugal. For periods longer than one year, au thor iza t ion is required from the Inspec- torate-General of Credit and Insurance with the agreement of the Bank of Portugal. "Foreign Accounts in Escudos" in the name of persons resident or domiciled in countries with which Portugal has bilateral payments agreements or arrangements: These accounts are opened, debited, and credited according to instructions issued by the Bank of Portugal. There are also provisions for resident and non- resident accounts in foreign currencies, but these accounts are of limited importance. Imports and Import Payments Imports of certain products are prohibited, ma in ly for sanitary reasons, for the protection of public order and morals, and for the prevention of trade frauds. Any physical or juridical entity may be an importer; importers must be certified by the Corporation of Commerce and must pay income taxes regularly. 3 However, the intent of the monetary directives in force is to exclude the escudo from payments to non- residents, and the Bank of Portugal authorizes such pay- ments in escudos only in exceptional cases. 4 Sales of escudos are subject to the proviso that the commercial bank concerned may be required to confirm the nature of the transaction for which escudos are required. 411 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Most imports consigned from and originating in the Portuguese overseas territories are free of restriction. A registration procedure is applied, for payment control purposes, and certificates of origin are required to ensure that goods originat- ing in foreign countries do not enter Portugal via overseas territories. Certain products, such as cotton, some oilseed products, and a few other raw materials may be imported freely from the Portuguese overseas territories (af ter local industrial demand for these raw materials has been satisfied) but are subject to quantitative restrictions when imported from th ird countries. Special regulations are applied to sugar, imports from overseas territories being free of restrictions while imports from foreign countries are author- ized only if supplies from overseas territories are insu f f ic ien t. Practically all imports from outside the Portu- guese Monetary Area are effected on the basis of "bulletins." For imports free of quan t i ta t ive restriction, the bulletin serves a statistical purpose and enables the importer to obtain the necessary foreign exchange as specified in the bulletin. For imports subject to restriction, the bulletin is equivalent to an import license. The va l id i ty of the bulletin is normally 90 days. Payments beyond that period but within one year require the approval of the Bank of Portugal; beyond one year the authorization of the Inspectorate- General of Credit and Insu rance is required. Goods not on the so-called negative list may be imported freely from most countries that are members of the GATT. The negative list includes certain foods tuffs, other agricultural products, certain na tural or manu fac tu red raw materials, some textile fibers, and a small number of finished products, including motor vehicles; the items on the negative list are subject to quantita- tive restrictions for protective reasons. The GATT liberalization does not apply to Ghana, India, and Nigeria; imports from these GATT members of goods liberalized if imported from other GATT countries are subject to individual authorization, which is granted only in excep- tional cases. Furthermore, a somewhat more extensive negative list applies to Japan. Nonliberalized imports from countries that are GATT members are admitted either under global 412 or bilateral quotas or under individual authoriza- tion. There are bilateral quotas for specified agri- cultural imports from certain EFTA countries. Imports of nonliberalized industrial products are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction when originating in EFTA countries; special legislation provides that automobiles must be assembled in Portugal, but imports of completely knocked-down vehicles from EFTA countries are free of restrictions. All imports from countries that are not members of the GATT are based on individual authoriza- tions; imports from Eastern European countries are generally licensed restrictively or in accord- ance with bilateral agreements. Payments for Invisibles Payments to the Portuguese overseas territories for current invisibles may be made freely through authorized banks. Such payments to foreign countries are also free of quantitative restrictions, but are subject to procedures which d iffer in respect of the amounts of foreign exchange that authorized banks may grant freely for the various transactions. For payments to countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral payments agreements, the authorized banks may grant any amount of for- eign exchange for expenditures incidental to trade; up to the equivalent of Esc 50,000 per capita and per annum for tourism; and up to the equivalent of Esc 100,000 for most transactions in invisibles not mentioned above, including income on imported capital. For payments to countries with which Portugal has bilateral pay- ments agreements, the authorized banks may effect freely payments for invisibles listed in the respective payments agreements. Application must be made to the Bank of Portugal for exchange for payments of items not referred to above and for payments in excess of the above- mentioned limits. Travelers may take out freely domestic and foreign banknotes and foreign coins for their travel expenses; exports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports are effected on the basis of "bulletins" (similar to the import bulle- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution t ins ). Export bulletins are issued freely, with few exceptions; the p r ima ry purpose of this procedure is to enforce the prescription of currency and sur- render regulations. The export of a few domesti- cally produced goods is restricted, mainly to assure adequate supplies to domestic industries and to avoid depletion of local resources. Bag- gage and exports and re-exports of merchandise whose value does not exceed Esc 2,500 do not require a bulletin as long as they are not expressly excluded from this exemption. Exporters are required to sell to an authorized bank, w i th in the period stipulated in the export bulletin, the total amount of the export proceeds, in the foreign currency indicated in the bulletin, if payment is not received from a Demand For- eign Account in Escudos. The Bank of Portugal may, however, authorize the deduction of com- mission expenses abroad, and freight, insurance, or other charges per ta in ing to exports, from the total amount of the export proceeds subject to surrender. Proceeds from invisibles Portuguese residents may receive freely pay- ments for invisibles from residents of countries with which Portugal does not have bilateral pay- ments agreements. Also, payments from residents of countries with which Portugal does have pay- ments agreements may be received freely for invisibles listed in the payments agreements. Receipts on account of all other invisibles require authorization by the Bank of Portugal, which is granted without restriction, once the proposed operation proves to be real and licit. Receipts from invisibles must be surrendered. Travelers may bring in freely domestic and foreign banknotes and coins for their travel expenses; imports of notes and coins for other purposes require authorization from the Bank of Portugal. Authorized banks are not permitted to receive or to pay out foreign banknotes or coins for the settlement of operations expressed in for- eign currencies. Capital Capital transfers between Portugal and its overseas territories are subject to prior authoriza- tion "by the Inspectorate-General of Credit and PORTUGAL Insurance; approval is also required from the authorities of the territory concerned. When the amount exceeds Esc 50 million, the approval of the M in is ter of Finance and of the Minister of Overseas Territories is required. For most types of transaction, however, authorization to export from Portugal (and to import into the overseas te r r i to ry) is granted freely whenever the transac- tion is found to be a bona fide one. All capital movements between Portugal and other countries (excluding credits with a term of one year or less, which require approval by the Bank of Portugal) are subject to the prior authorization of the Inspectorate-General of Credit and Insurance; and for transactions exceeding Esc 10 m i l l ion, the approval of the Minister of Finance is also required. Moreover, before gran t ing an authorization, the Inspec- torate-General may request the advice of the Bank of Portugal on the monetary and foreign exchange aspects of the transaction involved. Foreign investments in Portugal from residents of countries that are members of or associated w i th the OECD, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD are authorized freely if they involve activities that are of recognized interest for Portugal's development, that is, unless a speculative operation in real estate is involved. Certain activities, however, are reserved for enterprises having a majority of Por- tuguese cap i ta l; these include defense, public utili- ties, oil refining, and fishing. The transfer abroad of the fu ll proceeds from the liquidation of foreign investment which originated in a bona fide inward capital movement from OCED, EFTA, IMF, or IBRD countries is authorized without restriction. Foreign credits from OECD countries with a ma tu r i ty of up to five years are liberalized when a Portuguese resident participates in the underly- ing commercial or service transaction. The repay- ment of foreign credits and loans that originated in a bona fide inward capital movement is always authorized. Investments outside the Portuguese Monetary Area by residents of Portugal are authorized only when the capital involved is not considered indis- pensable for the national economic development. In practice, authorization is granted only for small investments and for the improvement or enlargement of existing Portuguese investments. 413 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution PORTUGAL Residents of Portugal may reinvest in securi- ties, w i th in time l im i ts fixed by the authorities, the proceeds of the sale of other securities in an OECD coun try. They may also t rans fer such pro- ceeds to o ther residents, provided that the pro- ceeds do not belong to a Portuguese credit ins t i tu- tion and th at the ir owner is not under an obli- gation to su r render them to such an ins t i tu t ion. Arb i trage operations in foreign securities car- ried out by residents of Portugal invo lv ing two other OECD countries or between Portugal and an OECD coun t ry are au thor ized f ree ly; but if a t r an s f er of fo re ign exchange to or f rom Portugal is invo lved, a pr ior au thor iza t ion is requ ired. Transfers by Portuguese na t iona ls or by for- eigners resident in Portugal who em igra te to any other OECD coun t ry are au tho r ized up to Esc 100,000 a n n u a l ly for a f am i l y. Transfers by fore ign na t iona ls who have been re s ident in Por tu- gal are au thor ized up to Esc 500,000 a year for a f am i ly when they r e tu rn to the ir coun t ry of origin. Transfers on account of bequests, inheritances, and dowries to o ther OECD countries are au thor- ized up to Esc 500,000. For bequests, inherit- ances, and dowries exceeding this amoun t, annual transfers up to Esc 500,000 are authorized. In cases of bequests and inher i tances, the legator or the deceased person must have been a res ident of Por tugal and the legatee or he ir a resident of an OECD coun t ry at the t ime of the death. G i f ts to re la t ives res ident in OECD countries are author- ized when their value does not exceed Esc 28,750 a year. Transfers to OECD coun tr ies in respect of l ife in su rance policies due f rom Portuguese insurers are au tho r ized in favor of the bene f ic ia ry when the ir va lue does not exceed Esc 500,000 for a cap i tal sum, a reduced va lue, or an a n n u i ty cer- ta in, and Esc 50,000 for a su r render value. Capital movements and transfers of assets not enume ra ted in the preceding paragraphs or invo lv ing coun tr ies other than those mentioned above are au thor ized on the merits of each case. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold in any form in Por tuga l, and there is a free gold market in Lisbon. The purchase or sale of coined or uncoined gold, when carried out between metro- 414 politan Portugal and foreign countries, is subject to special advance au thor iza t ion from the Bank of Portugal whenever a resident of metropolitan Portugal takes part in the transaction or has an in terest in it. The impo r t, export, or re-export of coined or uncoined gold is also subject to special advance au tho r iza t ion from the Bank of Portugal. Licensing of imports is relatively liberal. There is a f ree ma rket for gold in Macao, in which both residents of Macao and nonresidents who are not resident in the Portuguese Mone tary Area may free ly trade among themselves in bars, leaves, and coins; settlement mu st take place in patacas or U.S. dollars. In Macao, the Government sets over-all l im i ts for imports of gold in any form other than jewelry; au thor i ty to carry out such imports is delegated to a concessionary enterprise for a two-year period. Impor ts and exports of gold, unless made by or on behalf of the Macao mone ta ry authorities, require licenses issued by the Commissioner for Economy. Changes during 1969 January 8. The rediscount rate for export transac t ions was reduced and that for imports of less essential commodities was increased. April 3. Decree-Law No. 48950 was published which revised certain provisions of the export credit and export credit insurance system. April 24. An export credit insurance company was established. July 17. Oil re f in ing activities were reserved for enterprises having a ma jor i ty of Portuguese capital. September 18. A government-sponsored re- search and financing company, the Sociedade Financeira Portuguesa, was formed to promote investment, to screen and approve specific invest- ment projects, and to a t tract domestic and foreign capital. It was also given the task of improving both the structure of the domestic financial mar- ket (in the metropolis and the overseas provinces) and the management of enterprises of national or international scope financed or partially owned by the Central Government or the governments of the overseas provinces. October 1. Decree-Law No. 49306 revised the permissible l im i ts on transfer charges for inter- territorial payments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA Exchange Raie System The par value is 0.00888671 gram of fine gold per Rwanda Franc or RF 100 = US$1. The National Bank of Rwanda ( the central b a n k) has established official limits for banks based on par values for the U.S. dollar and for other converti- ble currencies; those for the U.S. dollar are RF 99.25 buying and RF 100.75 selling. The authorized banks' rates may fluctuate free ly between these limits. The National Bank maintains official quotations within these limits for the U.S. dollar and certain other currencies;1 the official buying and selling rates for the U.S. dollar were RF 99.50 and RF 100.50, respectively, on Decem- ber 31, 1969. There is a free market for trans- actions in foreign banknotes other than the cur- rency of the Democratic Republic of Congo in which the authorized banks' middle rates are not permitted to deviate from par by more than 15 per cent; banks may not import or export bank- notes. Administration of Control Control over foreign exchange transactions and foreign trade is vested in the National Bank; au thor i ty to carry out some of these transactions is delegated to authorized banks. Exchange policy and foreign trade policy are determined by the General Foreign Exchange and Licensing Com- mittee, which comprises the Minister of Finance, the Governor of the National Bank, and five other members. Prescription of Currency Outgoing paymen ts may be made in any cur- rency; receipts must be obtained in one of the currencies quoted and specified by the National Bank.1 Most payments to Rhodesia are prohib- ited. All foreign payments except in border trade must be made by bank transfer. 1 These are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian l ire, Japanese yen, Kenya sh i l l ings, Ne th- er lands gu i lders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Tanzania shillings, Uganda shillings, and U.S. dollars. Imports and Import Payments A few imports, such as narcotics, are prohib- ited f rom all sources for reasons of public policy. Most imports from Portugal and Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports except baggage and household effec ts of travelers and merchandise valued up to RF 20,000 require licenses; these are issued freely and serve statistical purposes only. Before orders are placed, applications for import licenses for all other goods must be sub- m i t ted to the National Bank through an author- ized bank on a form entitled Import License and Payments Au thor iza t ion (Modèle I ). The ap- proval of an import license application consti- tutes an authorization also to obtain foreign exchange. An open general license permits the impor ta t ion of certain petroleum products and butane gas by specified companies. The National Bank grants global import licenses for other com- modities and for specified amounts to individual firms in order to ensure their continuous opera- tion. Licenses are examined at the National Bank only to avoid capital exports through overinvoic- ing and to ensure that importers do not have excessive recourse to domestic bank credit. Except as stated above, there are no restrictions as to currency of payment or permitted origin or place of sh ipmen t, but control is exercised to ensure that payments are made to the supplier country. Import licenses must be presented to the customs officials when the goods are cleared through customs. The number and date of expi- ration must be entered on the customs clearance form, called the Consumption Declaration, a copy of which is then sent to the National Bank by the customs office. Payments for imports in principle cannot be made prior to the arrival of the goods in Rwanda and must be made within 30 days after arrival. Importers of auto- mobiles must lodge a deposit or provide a bank- ing guaran tee covering the import payment. Payments for Invisibles The prior approval of the National Bank is required for all payments for invisibles; such approval is norma l ly given in all cases where no illegal ou tf low of capital seems to be involved. Foreign exchange is sold by the National Bank, 415 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution RWANDA through the authorized banks, for transport, insurance, and other expenses connected with imports and exports; for transfers of the salaries or wages ( a f t er income tax and a f ter deduction of RF 15,000 a mon th) of foreign nationals employed in Rwanda under contract; for transfers of the net earned income of foreign nationals who are self-employed or are engaged in a profession or established as independent traders; and for sal- aries of foreigners traveling abroad on leave. Pay- ments in respect of transport charges on imports and exports cannot be made until the goods have been cleared through customs or af ter the exchange proceeds have been surrendered. Net profits and dividends due to nonresidents may be remitted abroad in fu l l, subject to the right of the National Bank to prescribe their transfer in installments. Nonresidents may transfer their net income from rents (a f ter deduction of taxes and a provision of 20 per cent for ma in tenance), and residents of foreign nationality may remit two thirds of such net income; the National Bank, however, may limit the amounts so transferable. With permission f rom the National Bank, resi- dents may purchase tickets for travel abroad in Rwanda francs. Purchases of foreign exchange for travel purposes are authorized on an ad hoc basis. Remittances for payments for certain other invisibles may also be authorized on an ad hoc basis. Travelers may take out domestic banknotes up to RF 5,000. Residents require authorization by the National Bank to take out foreign banknotes. Nonresident travelers may take out any amount in foreign banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of oil and oil products to Rhodesia are prohibited. All exports, except trade samples, baggage and household effects of travelers, and merchandise valued at less than RF 20,000, are subject to a prior declaration entitled Declaration of Collection of Foreign Exchange (Modèle E). Declarations for all exports must be presented to the National Bank through an authorized bank, for certification. A Declaration is valid for a period of three months, but extensions may be granted by the National Bank, which also 416 reserves the right to determine the conditions for certification. For exports to Burundi, the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda payments must be collected not later than 30 days after the goods have left the coun- t ry; for exports to all other countries, this period is 120 days. All exchange proceeds from exports must be surrendered to an authorized bank w i th in 8 days from their collection. Proceeds from Invisibles All receipts from invisibles of RF 5,000 or more must be surrendered to the authorized banks w i th in 8 days from their collection. All claims must be collected within 30 days from the date on wh ich they become payable. Travelers may bring in up to RF 5,000 in domestic banknotes and any amount in foreign banknotes. Capital All ou tward transfers of capital require the prior approval of the National Bank. Such approval is rarely given unless the transfer relates to a foreign investment in Rwanda that is cov- ered by the Investment Law of May 4, 1964 or to the personal effects of a foreign national return- ing to his own country. Retransfer guarantees may be given by the National Bank in respect of short-term capital inflows remaining in Rwanda for at least two months. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Rwanda. Imports and exports of gold require licenses and are normally made only by the monetary authorities. Changes during 1969 March 8. The National Bank issued a commu- nication concerning the presidential order of Feb- rua ry 1, 1964 by which political and economic sanctions were introduced against Portugal. May 15. Importers applying for an import license were required to confirm in writing that they would not have excessive recourse to domes- tic credit to finance the import payment. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SAUDI ARABIA Exchange Raie System The par value is 0.197482 gram of fine gold per Saudi Arabian Riyal or SRls 4.50 = US$1. The Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency sells U.S. dollars to banks at the par value rate, and this serves as the basis for exchange quotations in the market. The Monetary Agency also sells sterling to banks at the appropriate cross rate. All settle- ments with Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited; there are no other restrictions on foreign payments. Saudi Arabia accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement, as from March 22, 1961. Prescription of Currency The use of the currencies of Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa is prohibited. No other pre- scription of currency requirements are in force. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are not required, and exchange for payments abroad may be obtained freely. All imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Exports and Export Proceeds Export licenses are not required, and no con- trol is exercised over export proceeds. All exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa and the re-export of certain imported items benefiting from government subsidy are prohibited. Payments for and Proceeds from Invisibles These are not restricted, except that payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Capital No exchange control requirements are imposed on capital receipts or payments by residents or nonresidents, but payments must not be made to, or received from, Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica. The Foreign Capital Investment Law (Royal Decree No. 35 of February 24, 1964) provides for specified benefits to be extended to approved foreign investments in Saudi Arabia. Gold The monetary authorities and all other resi- dents, inc lud ing private persons, may freely and w i thout license purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, at home or abroad. They may also, w i thout a license and w i thout payment of any customs du ty or tax, import and export gold in any form. Transactions involving Israel, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited. Changes during 1969 August 14. The government subsidy on imported wheat and rice was fu r ther reduced from 12V4 per cent to 8 Va per cent and that on imported meat from IVi per cent to 5 per cent. 417 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL 1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Senegal has been established with the Fund. The u n it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, wh ich is off ic ia l ly main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, g iv ing the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.2 Exchange t ransac t ions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afr ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and inc lude a commission. Senegal's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1 ) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West A f r ican Mone tary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Togo, and Upper Vo l ta ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Opera- tions Account (Cameroon, the Cen tral A f r i c an Republic, Chad, the People's Repub l ic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Repub l ic, and M a l i ). Hence, all paymen ts to these coun t r ies may be made free ly. All other coun tr ies, except Senegal i tse l f, are considered fore ign coun tr ies, and in p r in c ip le financial relations only w i th for- eign coun tr ies are subject to exchange control. For purposes of ce r ta in capital controls, however, the coun tr ies listed above are also considered for- eign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is adm in is tred by the Exter- nal Finance and Investment Division in the M in- istry of Finance, wh ich also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for 1 In view of changes th at took place ea r ly in 1970 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), th is survey presents the pos i t ion on J a n u a ry 9, 1970. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Cen tra le des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon cu r rency in Dahomey, Ivo ry Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. 418 sale of foreign securities in Senegal, inward direct inves tmen t, and all ou tward investments. Much of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized banks. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, either directly or through the in termed iary of the banks and the Postal Adm in is t ra t ion, any in fo rma t ion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun tr ies must be effected through autho- rized banks or the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion. Import and export licenses are issued by the M in is try of Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the M in is try of Finance. Import cer- t if ica tes for liberalized commodities are made out by the impor ter himself. The Senegalese Agri- cu l tu ral Ma rke t ing Agency (Office de Commercia- lisation Agricole du Sénégal—OCAS) has a monopoly over exports of groundnu ts and imports of white rice and has authority to import certain other essential foods tuffs. Prescription of Currency Senegal is an Operations Account coun try of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO main- ta ins an Operations Account with the French T reasu ry; settlements with France (and its Over- seas Depa r tmen ts and Territories, except the French Terr i tory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account coun- tries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA f rancs, French f rancs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements w i th all other coun tr ies are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the cur- rencies of those countries —provided that the cur- rencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.3 All settlements with Portugal, Rhode- sia, and South Africa are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA 3 There are inoperative payments agreements with Guinea and Mali. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. imports and Import Payments Imports of Portuguese, Rhodesian, and South A f r ican origin and /or provenance are prohibited. The import of a number of goods is prohibited from any source. The import from any source of a number of other commodities is subject to indi- vidual licensing. Imports from countries in the French Franc Area other than Mali are generally free of license and quan t i ta t ive restriction; some goods, although free from import license, requ ire prior au thor iza t ion by the Minister of Commerce. Imports of v ir tua l ly all goods from EEC coun- tries and imports of some goods from former OEEC countries, the United States, and Canada are free of quan t i ta t ive restrictions; such liberal- ized imports require only an import certificate made out by the importer h imse l f. A joint French-Senegalese Committee establishes mini- mum amoun ts for imports of goods f rom the French Franc Area. There is an annual program with global quotas for imports from all non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area. The import program is put into effect through indi- vidual licenses, which are required for most commodities. Licenses are issued only to author- ized traders and to industrial and agricultural producers. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 25,000 (c.i.f. or delivered at the bo rde r ). The import licenses or import certificates entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for Invisibles All payments to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are sub- SENEGAL ject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accru- ing to nonresidents in the form of profits, divi- dends, and royalties are also permitted. For tour- ist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allocation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 100,000 a year for each person (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Senegal must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equivalent of CFAF 5,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip. Allocations of travel exchange must be marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). The transfer of the fu ll net salary of a foreigner working in Senegal is permitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out, in addition to their foreign exchange allocation, up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and bank- notes issued by other Operations Account coun- tries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes, but if the coun try of destination is not a member country of the West A f r ican Monetary Union, they must declare the amount taken out to the customs if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try, or if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. With a few exceptions (e.g., gold, diamonds, tunny ), exports to coun- tries in the French Franc Area are free of license. Most exports to other countries require licenses, ma in ly in order to assure adequate supplies for the domestic needs of Senegal and to prevent cer- tain re-exports. Export proceeds received in cur- rencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be collected 419 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL and surrendered w i th in 120 days of the arrival of the goods at their destination. All export transac- tions relating to foreign countries must be domi- ciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due from residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected, and surrendered, if received in foreign currency, w i th in two months of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonresi- dent travelers may bring in any amount of bank- notes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue m a in t a in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of foreign banknotes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area; residents bringing in foreign banknotes must declare them to the customs upon en try and sell them to an authorized bank w i th in eight days. Capital All settlements between Senegal and Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. Capi- tal movements between Senegal and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requirements that may be applicable) are ma in ta ined over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal; these controls relate to the transactions themselves not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African 420 Monetary Un ion, and those other countries whose bank of issue is l inked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are ma in ta ined also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of funds for deposit with for- eign private persons and foreign firms and institu- tions, and over all publicity aimed at placing f u n ds abroad or at subscribing to real estate bu i ld ing operations abroad; these special controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. All investment abroad by residents of Senegal requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.4 Foreign direct investments in Senegal5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before such investments are made. The Minis- ter has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. Both the mak ing and the l iqu ida t ing of direct and other investments, whether these are Senegalese investments abroad or foreign investments in Senegal, must be reported to the Minister of Fi- nance w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments im- plying control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Senegal requires prior author- ization by the Minister of Finance, as do issues by Senegalese companies. Exempt from authorization, however, are operations in connection with (1) loans backed by a guarantee from the Senegalese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issue, offering, or sale in Senegal has pre- viously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt 4 Inc lud ing investments made through the intermediary of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Senegal and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Senegal. 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Senegal that are d irec t ly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Senegal of foreign companies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution from this authorization: ( 1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior dec- laration, as indicated above; (2) loans contracted by authorized banks; (3) loans other than those mentioned above, when the total amount out- standing of these loans, including the new bor- rowing, does not exceed CFAF 40 million for any one borrower. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the spe- cial authorization of the Minister if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. In accordance with the Investment Code of March 22, 1962, as amended on May 19, 1965, the purpose of which is to encourage domestic and foreign private investment in projects which conform to Senegal's Four-Year Development Plan, an investor may sign a special founding agreement (convention d'établissement) with the Government by which he receives certain legal, financial, and other assurances in return for his commitment to carry out a certain program. A convention d'établissement is extended only to domestic and foreign investors who propose a min- imum investment over three years of CFAF 500 million. Such enterprises may be granted an assurance of unchanged taxation. Furthermore, firms proposing a program that either involves a m in imum investment of CFAF 40 million in three years, or creates at least 40 permanent jobs for Senegalese workers and s taff, may be accorded the designation of priority enterprises; as such, they are eligible for considerable tax privileges. The corresponding minima for invest- ments outside the Cap Vert region are CFAF 20 million invested or 20 jobs created. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Senegal. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1 ) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or SENEGAL gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold articles up to a com- bined weight of 200 grams. By virtue of Ordi- nance No. 60-21 of October 1, 1960, brokers in precious metals require an authorization from the Minister of Finance to conduct their business. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Purchases abroad of nonmonetary gold are subject to a tax of 25 per cent. Commercial imports of gold jewelry require prior authorization (Decree No. 65-794 of November 19, 1965). Changes during 1969 January 10. Order No. 505/MF listed the types of payment that could be made freely, through an authorized bank or the Postal Administration, to foreign countries, subject to the submission of documen tary evidence. Nonresident accounts in Senegal could no longer be credited with BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other institute of issue maintaining an Operations Account with the French Treasury. All amounts subject to surrender had to be col- lected and, where appropriate, sold on the exchange ma rke t, within two months of the due date. Such payments could not be collected in banknotes or to the debit of a postal checking account in Senegal. The due date for export receipts had in principle to be within 120 days after arrival of the commodities. The Order also contained definitions of "foreign countries," "resi- dents," and "nonresidents." Foreign countries were defined as all countries other than France, Monaco, the countries of the West African Mon- etary Union, and the other Operations Account countries. January 14. Notice No. 19 provided that resi- dent and nonresident travelers to foreign coun- tries could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, or the equivalent in French banknotes or banknotes of an institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury. Imports by resident or nonresi- dent travelers of BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes of other Operations Account countries were free, as were imports of any means of payment denominated in a foreign currency; foreign currency brought in by resi- dents had to be surrendered within eight days. 421 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL Nonresident travelers could freely take out any foreign banknotes they had previously brought in, up to the equivalent of CFAF 25,000; any addi- tional amounts could be taken out only if they had been declared upon en try. An exchange allo- cation of the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year (CFAF 50,000 for children under ten) was established for residents traveling to for- eign countries. January 14. Circular No. 16 established approval procedures for payments to foreign countries. January 14. Circular No. 17 established proce- dures for the domiciliation of export transactions and for controls over the repatriation of export proceeds. January 14. Circular No. 18 established proce- dures for the domiciliation of import transactions and for payments for imports. January 15. Decree No. 69-62/PR/MF submit- ted to control by the Minister of Finance all claims and liabilities in CFA francs and in any foreign currency that banks in Senegal had vis-a- vis foreign countries. This control could be dele- gated to the BCEAO. January 18. Order No. 871/MF required prior approval to send means of paymen t, titles to claims or property, and domestic or foreign securi- ties to a foreign country through the mail or by parcel post. The BCEAO and the authorized banks were exempt from this prior approval. February 24. Circular No. 33 established more detailed procedures for payments and t rans fe rs to foreign countries. Authorized banks were permit- ted to grant residents a special exchange alloca- tion for business travel, equivalent to CFAF 5,000 a day, subject to a maximum of CFAF 100,000 a person a trip. February 24. Circular No. 34 established the terms on which foreign exchange could be pur- chased forward. This was only allowed for import payments; the facility was limited to specified commodities, either for one month or for three months, and was not renewable. February 28. Order No. 2756/MF delegated to the BCEAO the control over the banks' posi- tion vis-à-vis foreign countries in CFA francés and foreign currencies. 422 February 28. Order No. 2757 /MF appointed five commercial banks and the Postal Administra- tion as au thor ized banks, the latter only for pay- men ts to foreign countries that had received the pr ior approval of the External Finance Division. March 17. The BCEAO issued Ins truc t ion No. 1 to Banks, concerning the ir external claims and liabilities, and Instruction No. 2 to Banks, con- cerning their fo rwa rd liabilities in foreign cur- rencies. March 20. Circular No. 44 was issued con- cerning Foreign Accounts in Francs and foreign securities dossiers. March 20. Circular No. 45 was issued concern- ing the deposit requ iremen ts for residents in respect of foreign securities. March 31. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 3 to Banks concerning the control over their ex te rnal claims and liabilities. April 1. C ircu lar No. 59 was issued modifying Circulars Nos. 17 and 18. April 1. Circular No. 60 was issued modifying Notice No. 19. A personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) was introduced. April 1. Circular No. 61 was issued concerning the possibility for authorized banks to grant sub- delegation to such ins t i tu t ions as hotels and travel agencies. April 18. C ircu lar No. 73 was issued complet- ing Circular No. 44. April 21. Circular No. 77 was issued concern- ing the ren t ing of cars and buses for tourist purposes. April 21. Circular No. 78 was issued concern- ing deduc t ions from the tourist travel allocation for cruises by ship or airplane. April 21. Circular No. 79 was issued concern- ing certain facilities for travel agencies. April 21. Circular No. 80 was issued concern- ing payments by foreign air transportation com- panies. April 21. Circular No. 81 was concerning the accounts of travel agencies. issued May 14. Circular No. 101 was issued concern- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing expenses and receipts of foreign ships in Sen- egal and of national ships abroad. Special accounts for these purposes were introduced (Comptes d'escale). May 19. Circular No. 103 added one commod- ity to those eligible for forward cover upon importation. June 12. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 4 to Banks concerning the control over their external claims and liabilities. July 2. Circular No. 127 was issued concerning suspense accounts and suspense dossiers of non- residents. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, the Mala- gasy f ranc, and the Mali franc remained unchanged. September 20. Order No. 12218/MF-MCA revoked Order No. 12625/MFAE of August 20, 1963, which had introduced a system of barter (échanges compensés) in border trade with con- tiguous foreign countries. October 11. Decree No. 69-111 modified the system of the importer-exporter card (carte d'importateur-exportateur). October 17. Decree No. 69-1126 was issued concerning certain financial transactions with for- eign countries. For purposes of this Decree, for- eign countries were defined as all countries other than Senegal. It revoked Decree No. 67-763 of June 30, 1967. The prior authorization of the Minister of Finance was required for: (1) the issuing, adver- tising, or sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign public organizations or companies, and international institutions; (2) the soliciting in any way of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms or institutions; (3) any publicity with a view to the placing of funds abroad or subscribing to real estate building operations abroad. Exempt from special or gen- eral permission, however, were the various activi- ties mentioned above when relating to loans guar- anteed by the Senegalese Government or relating to shares similar to securities whose issuing or SENEGAL offering for sale in Senegal had previously been authorized. The import and export of gold required the prior approval of the Minister. Exempt were: ( 1 ) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; ( 2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold; and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a max imum weight to be announced by the Minister. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, or Operations Account countries outside the West A f r ican Monetary Union were required to declare to the customs the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were carry ing if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. October 21. Decree No. 69-1133 was issued concerning certain investment and borrowing transactions with foreign countries. It modified the capital controls introduced by Decree No. 67-763 of June 30, 1967; Articles 3 to 14 of that Decree were revoked. For purposes of investment and borrowing transactions, foreign countries continued to be defined as in Decree No. 68- 1324 of December 19, W68, i.e., as countries other than France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All payments received from foreign countries by an authorized bank for the account of a resident had to be declared to the Minister of Finance. All payments and receipts re la t ing to the transactions mentioned below had to be channeled through authorized banks. Henceforth all investments made abroad by residents required the prior authorization of the Minister; previously, direct investments required only prior declaration to the Minister, after which the latter had two months to request postpone- ment. The liquidation of investments abroad con- t inued to be subject to prior declaration. These provisions also applied to the making and liqui- dation of investments abroad by nonresident companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Senegal or so controlled by branches abroad of residents. Direct investment in Senegal remained subject to prior declaration, after which the Minister could du r ing a two-month period request post- ponement. The proceeds of the liquidation by a 423 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SENEGAL nonresident of direct investments or other invest- ments could be transferred abroad after submis- sion of supporting documents to the Minister. Borrowing abroad remained subject to prior authorization by the Minister. The exemptions from this requ irement were redefined. The report- ing requ iremen ts for amounts borrowed or repaid were revised. The repayment of any foreign borrowing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, required the prior authorization of the M in is ter; exempt from this requ irement were loans cons t i tu t ing a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. October 28. Decree No. 69-1182 made imports of car batteries from all sources subject to quota. October 31. Circular No. 195 was issued con- cerning the reporting requirements for authorized banks with respect to payments received from foreign countries. November 6. Order No. 14316/MF authorized travelers to import or export articles of gold up to a combined weight of 200 grams. November 26. Decree No. 69-1325 required prior authorization for imports of detergents from all sources. NOTE.—The following changes early in 1970: took place January 7. Circular No. 7 was issued concern- ing the issuance and utilization of carnets de change for 1970. The tourist travel allocation remained unchanged at the equivalent of CFAF 100,000 a person a year. January 9. Circular No. 10 was issued concern- ing the application of Decree No. 69-1133. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt from prior authorization as follows: (1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meet- ing the following conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the annual interest rate must not exceed the normal market rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repaid, including the new transaction, must not exceed CFAF 40 million; and (d) the contract or exchange of letters must be submitted to the authorized bank. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment required the special authoriza- tion of the Minister of Finance if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special authorization. The repayment of all loans con- tracted before the publication of Decree No. 69- 1133 also required such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the extension of existing borrowings and concerning advance repayment. 424 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Exchange Raie System The par value is 1.06641 gram of fine gold per Leone or Le 1 = US$1.20. The Bank of Sierra Leone stands ready in transactions with commer- cial banks to buy and sell leones in exchange for sterling at the rate of Le 1 = £ stg. 0 10s. Od., subject to a max imum commission of 1 per cent on either side. The authorized banks in Sierra Leone base their rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the pound sterling on the current London market rates. Certain capital transfers to non-Sterling Area countries are chan- neled through the investment currency and prop- erty currency markets in the United Kingdom. Administration of Control Exchange control policy is made by the Minis- try of Finance. The day-to-day administration of exchange control is carried out by the Bank of Sierra Leone. Authorized commercial banks are permitted to sell exchange for permitted imports and, in small amounts, for travel expenses. The Bank of Sierra Leone has power to direct pay- ments into Blocked Accounts. Import and export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Trade and Industry. Prescription of Currency Sierra Leone is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with other Sterling Area countries may, with minor exceptions, be made freely in sterling or any other Sterling Area currency.1 Authorized payments to and receipts from Guinea must be channeled through a clearing account established under the terms of a bilateral payments agreement with that country. Author- ized payments to other countries outside the Ster- ling Area (except Rhodesia), including payments for imports, may be made in leones to the credit of an External Account in Sierra Leone, in ster- ling to the credit of an External Account in the United Kingdom, or in any other non-Sterling 1 In this survey, the expression "Sterling Area" means the "Scheduled Territories" as defined in Sierra Leone's exchange control regulations, i.e., the Sterling Area except South Africa. Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from other countries outside the Sterling Area (except Rhodesia) may be obtained in ster- ling from an External Account in the United Kingdom, in leones from an External Account in Sierra Leone, or in any specified currency.2 Receipts from exports to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may also be obtained in any currency of a country outside the Sterling Area that is freely exchangeable for Sierra Leonean currency or sterling. Settlements w i th Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in leones held with authorized banks in Sierra Leone by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be designated External Accounts. These may be credited with authorized payments from residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents. They may be debited for any payments to residents of the Ster- ling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds. Rhode- sian Accounts are accounts with banks in Sierra Leone conducted in the name of persons resident in Rhodesia. In addition, there are Blocked Accounts, to which are credited amounts that may not be remitted abroad and that are due to residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohibited. All imports from ma in land China, countries in the Soviet area other than Czechoslovakia and the U.S.S.R., and Algeria, Guinea, Korea, and the United Arab 2 The specified currencies are listed as Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 425 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SIERRA LEONE Republic, and certain commod i t ies3 from any source require ind iv idual import licenses. With the exception of specified textiles,4 all other imports from Czechoslovakia, the U.S.S.R., and most countries and territories outside mainland Ch ina and the Soviet area may be made freely under open general license.5 Foreign exchange is granted for all permitted imports. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Ster- ling Area may be made free ly. Remittances to all other countries require approval. For travel to countries outside the Sterling Area, residents are entitled to a basic exchange allowance of Le 500 du r ing a calendar year. Applications for larger amoun ts are considered on an ind iv idual basis. In addition to the basic exchange allowance, travelers may take out, regardless of des t ina t ion, the equ iva lent of Le 20 in any combination of leone notes and sterling 3 The "negative" list includes bacteriological products and o ther an t ib io t ic s, op ium and cocaine d e r i v a t i v es and preparations, medicines and pharmaceutical prod- ucts, f irearms, amm u n i t i o n, explosives, unwo rked and par t ly worked silver, gold jewelry, meat, rice, seeds, flower bu lbs, wheat flour, maslin flour, corn, raw tobacco, ce r ta in tex t i les and textile articles, fiber suit- cases, umb re l las, plastic footwear, cement, commodities of the type exported by the Sierra Leone Produce Mar- ke t ing Board (e.g., live cattle, palm kerne l, and palm o i l ), salt, certain oil re f ine ry products, motor vehicles, and ce r ta in parts for motor vehicles. 4 These specified textiles may be imported under open general license f rom all coun t r ies other than Ceylon, ma in land Ch ina, Repub l ic of China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern G e rm a n y, Hong Kong, H u n g a r y, Ind ia, Japan, No r th Korea, Repub l ic of Korea, Pakistan, Poland, R um a n i a, and Singapore. Imports f rom the sources men- tioned are restricted. 5 The open general license applies to A rg en t in a, Aus- tra l ia, Au s t r i a, Bahama Islands, Barbados, Be lg ium, Ber- m u d a, Bolivia, Braz i l, Bu rma, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central A f r i c an Repub l ic, Ceylon, Chad, Ch i le, Colombia, Democratic Repub l ic of Congo, Peo- ple's R epub l ic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyp rus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Denma rk, Dom in ican Repub- lic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Gabon, Fed- eral R epub l ic of G e rm any, Ghana, Greece, Gua tema la, Ha i t i, Hondu ras, Hong Kong, Iceland, Ind ia, Indonesia, I re land, Israel, I ta ly, Ivo ry Coast, Jama ica, Japan, Jo rdan, K eny a, K uw a i t, Leeward Is lands, L ibya, Lux em- bourg, Malagasy Repub l ic, Ma law i, Malaysia, Ma l i, Malta, M au r i t an i a, Mexico, Morocco, Muscat and Oman, Ne the r lands, New Zealand, N ica ragua, Niger, Nigeria, No rway, Pak is tan, Panama, Peru, Ph i l ipp in e s, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tanza- n ia, T r in idad and Tobago, Tun is ia, Tu rkey, Uganda, U.S.S.R., Un i ted K ingdom, Un i ted States, Upper Volta, U ruguay, Venezuela, Windward Islands, Yugoslavia, and Zambia. 426 notes and Le 50 in foreign currency notes other than Rhodesian pound notes. Nonresident travel- ers may take out foreign currency banknotes, inc lud ing s ter l ing notes, declared by them when entering Sierra Leone. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for a few commodities to certain desti- na t ions, exports require ind iv idual export licen- ses. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. The proceeds in specified currencies (see footnote 2) of exports other than d iamonds to countries outside the Sterling Area mu st be sold to an authorized bank in Sierra Leone or elsewhere in the Sterling Area within six mon ths from the date of export, unless per- mission to do otherwise is obtained. The proceeds from exports of diamonds must be obtained in a specified cu r rency which must be sold to either of two designated authorized banks in Sierra Leone. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be offered for sale to an au thor ized bank. Subject to declaration upon entry, persons en ter ing Sierra Leone may bring in any amount of domestic and foreign banknotes other th an Gu iñean f ranc notes; the importation of the la t ter is prohibited. Capital There are no restrictions on the movement of cap i tal between Sierra Leone and other Sterling Area countries. Capital paymen ts to nonresidents of the Sterling A rea are subject to exchange con- trol. Residents of Sierra Leone require permission f rom the Bank of Sierra Leone to purchase for- eign cu r rency, securities, or real estate situated outside the Sterling Area; when such purchases are approved, they must normally be financed with investment currency or property currency acqu i red in the London marke t. Investments by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be repatriated at any time, together with profits, provided that exchange control permission was obtained ini- t ia l ly for the investment. The Sierra Leone Exchange Control Ordinance imposes control on the issue and transfer of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution securities. The placing of an issue in Sierra Leone requires permission if either the person acquir- ing the securities or the person for whom he is nominee is resident outside the Sterling Area. Permission must also be obtained before a secu- rity registered in Sierra Leone may be transferred to a person resident outside the Sterling Area. Capital in respect of securities registered in Sierra Leone may not be transferred outside Sierra Leone without permission. Where permission has been given for securities registered in Sierra Leone to be sold to persons resident outside the Sterling Area, the company is usually required to obtain bank certification of the funds brought into Sierra Leone to ensure that permission will not be given later for taking out appreciably more than was brought in. The Development Ordinance of 1960 provides for income tax and customs du ty concessions to foreign and domestic companies under tak ing industrial or agricultural activities that are needed for the development of the country. Noncitizens are prohibited from owning or controlling certain types of businesses. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in Sierra Leone for numismatic pur- poses. Also, residents and nonresidents may freely buy, hold, sell, or export certain Sierra Leonean gold coins issued for commemorative purposes. With these exceptions, residents other than the monetary authorities, gold producers, and authorized industrial users are not allowed to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require individual import licenses. Exports of gold in any form require licenses issued by the Chief Inspector of SIERRA LEONE Mines; such licenses are not normally granted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone- tary au thor i t ies and local gold producers. Travel- ers, however, do not require a license to take out personal jewelry valued at up to Le 200. Exports of unworked gold are not subject to export tax. Changes during 1969 March 3. Government Notice No. 265 added additional oil ref inery products to the list of items requiring individual import licenses. May 6. Government Notice No. 569 added motor vehicles, rubber tires and inner tubes for vehicles, and parts for motor vehicles except engines and electrical parts to the list of items requiring individual import licenses. August 21. The Non-Citizens (Trade and Business) Act, 1969 went into effect. The act prohibited the ownership of certain businesses by noncitizens, defined as individuals not citizens of Sierra Leone or any company, association, or body of persons controlled by noncitizens. Cer- tain exemptions were provided for existing busi- nesses. The act also empowered the Minister of Trade and Indus try to restrict the expansion of existing businesses operated by noncitizens. September 19. Government Notice No. 1176 was published, inv i t ing import applications for 1970. There were no changes in the list of coun- tries to which the open general license applied. November 10. Government Notice No. 1327 added salt to the list of items requiring individ- ual import licenses. December 12. It was announced that the Gov- ernment had the intention of acquiring in the near f u t u re a majority ownership interest in all mining companies operating in Sierra Leone. 427 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.290299 gram of fine gold per Singapore Dollar or S$3.06122 = US$1. The Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singa- pore, stands ready to buy Singapore currency against sterling at S$7.4204 per <£ stg. 1 and to sell Singapore currency for sterling at S$7.2734 per <£ stg. 1 ; these rates include a commission of 1 per cent per Singapore dollar which the Board charges per Singapore dollar issued or redeemed, and no add i t ional commissions are charged. The Board deals only in sterling and only at these limits. Commercial banks deal directly with the Accoun- tant-General, who has discretion to buy and sell sterling w i th in or at the l im i ts and applies buying and selling rates for sterling that are announced from time to t ime. The rates quoted by the com- mercial banks for customers are w i th in 1 per cent on either side of the par value. As at Decem- ber 31, 1969 the buying and selling rates of the commercial banks were S$7.3675 and S$7.4000 per <£ stg. 1, respectively, for telegraphic transfers. No official buy ing and selling rates have been established for other currencies. The commercial banks quote mu tua l ly agreed rates for customers for most Sterling Area currencies and for speci- fied currencies.1 The rates are calculated on the basis of quotations for Singapore dollars against sterling in the Singapore exchange market and the quotations for other currencies against ster- ling in the London exchange ma rke t. On Decem- ber 31, 1969, the commercial banks' selling rate for the U.S. dollar was S$3.0900 per US$1. Authorized banks are permitted to deal forward in all currencies. Singapore, Malaysian, and Brunei currency notes and coins are freely interchangeable, at par and w i thout charge, in the three countries con- cerned, at the commercial banks, and with the monetary authorities. (The old Malayan dollar, which ceased to be legal tender with effect from January 16, 1969, is valued at S$0.8571.) 1 These specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 428 Singapore accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from November 9, 1968. Administration of Control The Exchange Control Division of the Ministry of Finance administers exchange control. Much of the au thor i ty for approving normal current paymen ts is delegated to commercial banks authorized for this purpose. The Trade Division of the M in is try of Finance administers import and export controls. Prescription of Currency Singapore is a member of the Sterling Area and generally follows the prescription of currency a r rangemen ts and the sterling payments system of the United Kingdom. All payments to and from Sterling Area countries must be made in sterling or another Sterling Area currency. Certain pay- men ts to Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R. are made through special accounts. Pay- men ts to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be made either in Singa- pore dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Receipts from exports to other countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia must be obtained either in Singapore dollars or another currency of the Sterling Area through an External Account, or in any specified currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts The accounts of residents of other countries in the Sterling Area are treated as resident accounts. The accounts of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area are treated as nonresident accounts and, unless specially restricted, are designated External Accounts. External Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of any non-Sterling Area currency, other than Rhodesian pounds, sold to a bank in Singapore, with transfers of Singapore dollars or sterling from other External Accounts, and with funds eligible for transfer to countries outside the Sterling Area. Balances on External Accounts may be transferred to any ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other account, whether resident or nonresident, and may be converted into any non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Accounts of residents of Rhodesia are designated Rhode- sian Accounts. All debits and credits to such accounts requ i re prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are permitted freely under open general license or specific licenses, depending on the na tu re and origin of the goods. A few imports are controlled for health or security reasons, and in such cases certain conditions must be satisfied before licenses are issued. Some imports are restricted for the protection of local industries. All imports originating in Rhodesia and South A f r ica or any territory administered by either are prohibited. Furthermore, the open general license does not apply to goods originating in, wholly or mainly manu fac tu red in, or consigned from, Albania, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- many, North Viet-Nam, mainland China, and the People's Republic of Mongolia, and license appli- cations for such goods must be submitted through the in te rmed ia ry of Intraco, Ltd. For imports of certain commodities, it does not apply to Japan. Intraco, a state-sponsored trading company, con- ducts much of the importing business with state trad ing countries. Permission to make payments for permitted imports is readily given, provided that the pre- scription of currency regulations are observed. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of the Ster- ling Area may be made freely. Payments related to commercial transactions and personal pay- ments of a current na tu re to other countries, except Rhodesia, are authorized, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. Authorized banks are permitted to approve applications for payments in respect of many categories of current invisibles, either without limitation or up to established limits. Applications for payments in excess of these limits, or for purposes for which no delegation of authority has been granted, are approved by the Exchange Control Department of the Ministry of Finance, provided that no unau thor ized capital outflow is involved. There SINGAPORE are no restrictions on the amount of foreign exchange made available for travel abroad; there is a basic travel allowance equivalent to <£ stg. 500 a person a year for travel outside the Ster- l ing Area and amounts in excess of this figure are allowed on application. Remittances to nonresi- dents of dividends, interest, and agreed profits on all bona fide inves tmen ts are subject to exchange control approval, which is given freely. Unless special permission is obtained, not more than S$500 in Singapore notes and the equivalent of <£ stg. 250 in foreign notes may be taken out of Singapore by resident travelers; there is no restriction on the amount of Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei currency notes, and cur- rency notes issued by the Board of Commission- ers of Currency, Ma laya and British Borneo that may be taken out of Singapore by travelers going direct to B runei or Malaysia. Nonresident travel- ers may take out any amount of foreign exchange declared upon entry. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Exports of certain textiles to specified destinations are sub ject to restrictive licensing, and all exports of waste paper, copra, scrap iron, steel bars, cement, and un t rea ted bird feathers are restricted. Other commodities do not require an export license. Exchange control approval is required only for exports exceeding S$20,000 in value to countries outside the Sterling Area and for exports to any country of gold in any fo rm; this requirement serves to ensure that the proceeds are obtained in accordance with the provisions of the Exchange Control Ordinance and are sold to an authorized bank. Proceeds from Invisibles The exchange control requirements governing exchange receipts from invisibles are, in general, the same as those for export proceeds. Travelers coming direct from Brunei or Malaysia may bring in any amount in Singapore notes, Malaysian and Brunei currency notes, and currency notes issued by the Board of Commissioners of Currency, Ma laya and British Borneo, and other travelers may bring in S$500 in Singapore notes; other- wise, permission is required for the import of Singapore notes. Permission is also required for 429 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SINGAPORE the import of currency notes of Ind ia in excess of Rs 270 and of Indonesia in excess of Rp 3,000. No limitations are imposed on the import of cur- rency notes of other countries. Capital There are no restrictions on capital transfers to and f rom other countries in the Sterling Area. Cap i tal t r an s f e rs from Singapore to coun tr ies out- side the Sterling Area requ i re exchange control approva l. Inwa rd transfers of capital from such coun tr ies do not requ i re approval but the subse- qu ent u t i l iza t ion of nonresident-owned f u n ds in Singapore for inves tment purposes in most cases is subject to ind iv idual exchange control approval. Singapore banks t h at have been licensed to th is effect may freely lend to nonresi- den ts of the Sterling Area f u n ds deposited with them in non-Sterling Area currencies by other such nonresidents. Inve s tment by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia in quoted stocks and bonds is free ly perm i t ted if made th rough a recognized stock exchange w i th f u n ds f rom an External Account or t rans fe r red in a specified cu r rency; inves tment in stocks and bonds is sub ject to ind iv idual approval if it is to be made otherwise. Inves tmen ts in new indus t r ial and deve lopment projects that have been granted "pioneer status" are not restricted. However, to ensu re t h at subscr ip t ion monies are derived f rom an Ex te rnal Accoun t, exchange control approval is requ i red before shares are issued to residents of coun tr ies outside the Sterling Area. Subject to prior exchange control approval, proceeds from sales of securities held in Singapore and of other inve s tmen ts may be freely repatriated by residents of coun tr ies outside the Sterling Area. Borrowing f rom local banks by nonresident-controlled com- panies is subject to controls. Inves tmen ts by Singapore nationals in coun- tries ou ts ide the Sterling Area may be made only upon approval of the exchange control au tho r i- ties; th is is given only when such inves tmen ts are considered to serve the economic interest of Sin- gapore. Gold The Board of Commissioners of Currency has 430 issued a gold coin of S$150 that is legal tender. This coin may be free ly held and used by resi- dents. Resident and nonresident travelers may free ly take out or b r ing in three such coins; add i t ional quan t i t ies require exchange control approval. Otherwise, the following applies. There is in Singapore a free gold market to wh ich only nonresidents of the Sterling Area have access. Authorized dealers in gold (including In t r a co) may import gold f rom any source for sale in th is ma rke t. Settlements take place in Ex ternal Account sterling or in any non-Sterling Area cu r rency. Buyers may export the gold or deposit it w i th an authorized dealer; they may resell it to any authorized dealer or, under the superv is ion of an authorized dealer, to another non res ident of the Sterling Area. Residents o ther than authorized dealers are not perm i t ted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any fo rm other th an gold that has been manu fac tu red into jewe lry. Goldsmiths are, however, permitted to purchase cer ta in quan t i t ies of gold from an authorized dealer for the manu fac tu re of bona fide jewe lry and ornaments. Permission for impor ts of gold in any form other than jewelry con s t i tu t ing the personal effec ts of a traveler is not no rma l ly given, except for imports by author- ized dealers to meet the genuine requirements of go ldsm i ths for m a n u f a c t u r i ng jewelry and orna- men ts and for indus t r ial uses. Impor ts of gold for the m a n u f a c t u re of jewe lry for domestic sale are pe rm i t ted by registered importers 2 who hold an impo rt license. Licenses are issued for imports of a specified qu an t i ty of gold each qua r ter through a tender system adm in is tered by Intraco, and the amount any successful tenderer may bring in th rough the in te rmed ia ry of Intraco is subject to a m a x im um of 1,500 ounces a quarter. The regis- tered importers tender for the import licenses each qu a r t er and the prem iums paid for the licen- ses accrue to the Government. Authorized gold bu l l ion dealers may also tender to import gold, subject to the same rules th at are applicable to tendering and importing by goldsmiths; they may only sell the gold to goldsmiths who are unable 2 These are goldsmiths who have been granted ex- emp t ion f rom the Foreign Exchange Control Ord inance, 1953 (Pa rt II, Section 5) to impo rt gold bars solely for m anu f a c tu re into gold ornaments. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or unw i l l ing to import gold themselves. Imports of gold bars are subject to a levy of S$3 an ounce. There are no other duties or taxes appli- cable to domestic or foreign gold transactions. Exports to Sterling Area countries of articles m anu f a c tu r ed partly or wholly of gold require neither exchange control approval nor an export license. Otherwise, exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are prohibited. The price of gold used for the manu fac tu re of ornaments is fixed by the Singapore-Chinese Gold and Silver Merchants Association. On Decem- ber 31, 1969, this price was about S$200 per tahil of approximately 1.21 troy ounces. Changes during 1969 Dur ing the year, a number of Singapore banks were granted licenses enabling them to accept deposits in non-Sterling Area currencies from resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area for on-lending to nonresidents of the Sterling Area and perm i t t ing them to pay interest on the depos- its received. January 7 7. A special bank account was estab- lished for settlements in respect of certain com- modities traded between Singapore and the U.S.S.R. January 16. The old Malayan dollar ceased to be legal tender. March 15. Exports of articles manufactured wholly or par t ly of gold could be exported to any Sterling Area country w i thout requiring permis- sion from the Controller of Foreign Exchange. March 28. Imports of commercial motor vehi- cles and motor buses were freed from specific licensing and quan t i ta t ive restriction, except when originating in or consigned from Albania or East- ern Germany. April 1. A free gold market was established for transactions between nonresidents of the Ster- ling Area only. Imports of gold bars became sub- ject to a levy of S$3 an ounce. Intraco was SINGAPORE charged w i th administering system. the gold tender April 18. Imports of tires, tubes, and certain chemicals ceased to be subject to specific licen- sing. May 17. Quan t i ta t ive restrictions were imposed on imports of sheet and plate glass. The quota for 1969 was set at 120 per cent of 1968 imports. May 27. All imports of goods originating in, wholly or ma in ly manufac tured in, or consigned from Albania, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, North Viet-Nam, mainland China, and the People's Republic of Mongolia were placed under special licensing. Previously, the only coun- tries to which the open general license was not applicable were Albania and Eastern Germany. Applications for licenses had to be submitted through Intraco. July 12. Impor ts of instant coffee were made subject to quantitative restrictions at 105 per cent of 1968 imports. August 8. The Board of Commissioners of Currency, Singapore, issued a legal tender gold coin of the denomination of S$150. Resident and nonresident travelers could freely take out or bring in three such coins on their person. September 1. The Free Trade Zones Act came into effect. It provided certain customs and other fac i l i t ies for imports into and exports from speci- fied free trade zones in Singapore. Two such zones were established on the same date. November 8. The export of steel bars required a license. Until fu r ther notice, such licenses would not normally be issued. December 26. It was announced that import quotas for a number of commodities were being continued in 1970 at 1969 levels. These included wheat flour (at 1 per cent of 1962 imports), mild steel flat bars (at 1 per cent of 1965 imports), in- stant coffee (at 105 per cent of 1968 imports), and motorcycles (at 100 per cent of 1967 imports). 431 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA Exchange Raie System The par va lue is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Somali Shilling or So. Sh. 7.14286 = US$1. The Somali National Bank carries out exchange transactions in "convertible" cu r renc ies1 with authorized dealers at a single fixed rate for each currency based on the par value or official rate of that currency and the par value of the Somali shilling. Settlements under bilateral payments agreements are made at rates corresponding to official par values. The exchange market in Somalia comprises the Somali National Bank and four commercial banks appointed as authorized exchange dealers in respect of transactions in for- eign currencies. The banks charge a foreign exchange commission ( inc lud ing bank ing com- mission) of 0.7 per cent for all exchange transac- tions other than purchases and sales of bank- notes. Au thor ized exchange dealers generally do not conduct fo rwa rd exchange transactions on behalf of the public, although this is not prohib- ited. Administration of Control The M in is try of Indu s t ry and Commerce is the principal government agency concerned w i th the imp lemen ta t ion and operation of trade and exchange controls. It has been given the au thor i ty to regulate and control all foreign economic transactions and to establish policy for the licens- ing of imports, exports, and exchange. The Somali Na t ional Bank is authorized to determine the rates at which foreign currencies are to be negotiated, to establish a list of "convertible" cur- rencies,1 and to appoint banks as authorized exchange dealers. It may also implement the trade and exchange controls on behalf of the Ministry of Indus t ry and Commerce. An Advi- sory Commission, consisting of nine members representing various ministries, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Au thor i ty, and the police, advises the Ministry of Indus try and Com- merce on policy questions relating to the regula- 1 These are listed as Au s t r ian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, D j ibou ti francs, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Ne ther lands guilders, pounds sterling, South Arab ian dinars, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 432 tion and control of foreign economic transactions. The National and the Local Licensing Commit- tees, usually consisting of members representing the M in is t ry of Indus try and Commerce, the Min- istry of Finance, the Somali National Bank, the Customs Au tho r i ty, and the police, decide on applications for licenses for imports and for t rans fe rs in respect of services. The Somali Na t ional Bank grants licenses for certain routine invisibles. Transfers in respect of capital are authorized by the National Licensing Committee in Mogadiscio, unless they are governed by the provisions of Law No. 10 of February 18, 1960 on foreign investments, as extended and amended by Decree-Law No. 3 of March 3, 1968. Prescription of Currency Settlements with mainland China and the U.S.S.R. are made through bilateral clearing accounts denominated in pounds sterling. Settle- ments w i th the United Arab Republic must be made mostly in convertible currencies; 50 per cent of payments for imports from the United A rab Republic and all payments for invisibles to the United Arab Republic other than those for Suez Canal dues are to be debited to Somalia's creditor balance resulting from the terminated paymen ts agreement with that country; other pay- men ts normally are channeled through special accounts denominated in sterling. Settlements with all other countries must be made in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies (see foot- note 1 ) ; however, residents are not permitted to make settlements w i th Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Somali shillings or in "convertible" currencies may be opened with authorized exchange dealers by Somali nationals abroad on diplomatic service; Somali nationals residing abroad and deriving income only from sources outside Somalia; foreign nation- als and foreign institutions enjoying diplomatic status in Somalia; foreign persons customarily resident abroad and companies whose head office is abroad, provided that they do not derive income (including export proceeds) from sources ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution w i th in Somalia; and by other physical or juridical persons individually authorized by the Somali National Bank to maintain a nonresident account. Imports and import Payments Imports of goods originating in or shipped from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. For reasons of public policy, the import of a few commodities from all sources may be prohibited and that of certain other items requires individual license. All other commodities may be imported freely. Individual licenses are required for 11 commodities or groups of com- modities, constituting approximately one third of total imports in value. Some of these commodities may be imported only from specified sources.2 No quotas are ma in ta ined for any imports. All imports, whether subject to licensing or not, must be declared. If goods imported under license d i f f er in weight, quan t i ty, or value by more than 10 per cent from the specifications in the import license, a new import license must be obtained. All imports other than those made by the Government, diplomatic and consular agen- cies, and international organizations are subject to a statistical and administrative tax of 10 per cent. Payments for imports are authorized by the Somali National Bank or an authorized exchange dealer on the basis of either an import license (where requ i red) or a "notice of import of goods not subject to license" and other documentation relating to the import transaction (bills, bills of lading, shipping notices, etc .). Provided that the Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer is satisfied that the transaction meets the legal requirements, permission to make payment for impor ts is granted to the applicant not later than the third business day following the receipt of the application or on such other subsequent day as may be specified by the applicant. The Somali National Bank or the authorized exchange dealer may also permit advance payments for imports (i.e., payment for merchandise not actually passed through customs at the time of 2 The perm i t ted origin varies from commodity to commodity; the specified sources of supp ly are the United States, the U.S.S.R., and /or the Un i ted Arab Republic. SOMALIA p aym en t) provided that documentary evidence of actual shipment is produced. Advance payments for imports without documentary evidence of actual shipment are not permitted. Authorized banks must require a cash deposit of at least 25 per cent when opening import letters of credit exceeding So. Sh. 30,000; exemption from this requirement may be given for essential imports. For rice imports from the United States and the United Arab Republic and for imports of edible oils from the United States, the minimum deposit is 10 per cent. Special paymen ts regulations apply to border trade in specified areas of Somalia; part of this trade is carried on by traders who do not operate through authorized banking institutions. Such traders are permitted to use the proceeds from their exports to a neighboring country for the import of goods from that country up to So. Sh. 10,000 a month for each person. Unused balances rema in ing from such transactions must be surrendered. Traders in border areas who operate through bank ing institutions may be allowed a revolving advance payment, without submitting documentation, up to So. Sh. 10,000 a month a person. The advance may be accumulated for three months and is reconstituted for the value of goods actually imported as shown by documen- tary evidence. Payments for Invisibles Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Payments for current invisibles are subject to licensing, mainly to pre- vent unau thor ized capital movements; provided that balance of payments considerations permit, genuine requ iremen ts are met. Transfers of sala- ries, wages, gratuities, and allowances paid in Somalia to their foreign personnel by enterprises registered under the Foreign Investment Law are norma l ly allowed up to 50 per cent. The Somali Na t ional Bank may grant licenses for exchange for travel purposes up to specified limits. Appli- cations for exchange for amounts exceeding those limits and for all other invisibles are considered on their merits by the Licensing Committees in Mogadiscio and Hargeisa. For tourist travel by residents, there is an allowance of the equivalent of So. Sh. 1,000 a person a year, which is appli- cable to all countries except Canada, Japan, and 433 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOMALIA the Un i ted States; for these three countries, the allowance is So. Sh. 1,400 a person a year. Nonres ident travelers may take out w i thout au tho r iza t ion any foreign exchange which they brought in and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins. Resident travelers may take out with- out au tho r iza t ion So. Sh. 200 in Somali notes and coins and up to the equ iva lent of So. Sh. 200 in foreign bankno tes and coins. A currency declara- tion is requ ired by all persons leav ing the coun- try. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports and re-exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. The export of a few commodities to any des t ina t ion may be prohibited for reasons of pub l ic policy. An export declaration is requ ired for all com- modities. Exports of bananas and n i ne other commodities or groups of commodities are sub- ject to license; o ther exports may be made f ree ly. Except in border trade (see section on Imports and Import Payments, above ), all export pro- ceeds must be repa tr ia ted, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali Na t ional Bank or to an au thor ized exchange dealer w i th in five business days a f ter the ir receipt. The Somali National Bank may exempt exporters f rom the surrender obligation in respect of the ir export proceeds. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from inv is ib les must be repa tr ia ted, declared, and offered for sale to the Somali Na t ional Bank or to an au thor ized dealer w i th in five business days a f t er their receipt. The Somali Na t ional Bank may grant exemptions from the surrender requ i remen t. Nonres iden ts may b r ing in freely with them any amount in foreign exchange and up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bankno tes and coins; they mu st make a cu r rency declaration when entering the coun try. Resident travelers may br ing in up to So. Sh. 200 in Somali bankno tes and coins and are obliged, upon arrival, to declare and offer to surrender any foreign exchange or gold they bring in. Capital Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and 434 South A f r ica are prohibited. Capital transactions are subject to licensing unless they are authorized by the Foreign Investment Law of February 1960 (as amended in March 1968). In accordance w i th the provisions of that law, foreign enter- prises must be registered w i th the Ministry of P lann ing and Coordination. For "productive" en terpr ises (i.e., those that engage in irrigation, imp rovement of land, establishment of factories, cons truc t ion of aqueduc ts, and testing, analyzing, and d r i l l ing activities in connection with oil and m in e r al exp lo r a t ion ), profits may be transferred abroad f ree ly up to a l im it of 15 per cent per a n n um of the capital invested; this transfer right is c um u l a t i ve for three years. Should profits in any one year be less than 15 per cent, the trans- fer right for the succeeding three years is corre- spond ing ly increased. The capital itself may be t ran s fe r red abroad beg inn ing five years af ter the da te of reg is tra t ion. Profits resulting from other fore ign inv e s tm en ts may be t rans fe r red abroad up to a l im it of 10 per cent per annum of the capital inves ted, and the capital itself may be transferred abroad over a m i n im um period of three years, beg inn ing seven years a f ter the date of registra- tion. The M i n i s t ry of Finance, upon the recommen- da t ion of other ministries concerned, may extend total or p a r t i al exemption to any enterprise from import and export taxes, excise du ty, income tax, and mun ic ipal tax, for a period not exceeding five years. For inves tmen ts registered prior to March 1968, the fiscal exemptions may be granted for up to ten years. Enterprises registered in or after March 1968 mus t, to the largest possible extent, employ residents; a program for the substitution of res ident employees for nonresidents is to be subm i t ted, for the record, to the Committee on Foreign Investments. Gold Residents may hold and acquire in Somalia, for n um i sm a t ic purposes only, gold coins that are not legal tender in any country. Such coins and unworked gold may be traded in Somalia only against domestic currency, at fixed buying and selling rates established by the Somali National Bank on September 26, 1964; these rates are So. Sh. 7.937 and So. Sh. 8.101 per kilogram, respectively. With these exceptions, residents ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require permissions issued by the Somali National Bank; such permis- sions are not normally granted except for imports and exports' by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold imported by jewelers must be melted down to a fineness of not more than 22 carats within one month. Imports are exempt from customs du ty when originating in EEC countries and subject to a 10 per cent du ty when of other origin. Changes during 1969 January 1. The number of commodities subject to ind iv idual import licenses was reduced from 33 to 11. The import of some of the commodities was restricted to specified sources of supply, depending on the item concerned; the permitted sources were the United States, the U.S.S.R., and the United Arab Republic. The import licenses pending since July 1968 for rice, white shirting, and grey sheeting were declared null and void. The suspension of tea imports was terminated. January 1. A new customs tar iff, based on the Brussels nomenc la ture and including preferential du t ies on items produced in the EEC area, entered into effect. Import duties on a number of primary materials, agricultural equipment, essen- tials, and heavy oil were reduced or abolished, and rates of import duty were standardized in accordance with the type of product and the degree of processing. Export duties on bananas (wh ich had been suspended since the closing of the Suez Cana l ), and the administrative and sta- tistical fee of 5 per cent on exports, were elimi- nated. January 9. Registered traders were permitted to make advance payments for imports from neighboring countries against payment of a cash deposit of 15 per cent of the amount of the import transaction. The deposit was to be refunded upon presentation of documentary evi- dence of actual shipment. SOMALIA May 5. Since Kenya on April 24 had permit- ted its banknotes, when originating from livestock exports from Somalia to Kenya, to be repatriated and credited to a nonresident account of a Somali bank, the Somali authorized banks were allowed to make use of this facility. Kenya banknotes to be so remitted could be purchased at par minus a commission not exceeding 2 per cent. June 18. The import licenses pending since the beginning of February for edible oils were declared null and void. July 1. It was announced that export licenses would be granted, for a limited period, for ivory and leopard skins. July 10. The Minister of Industry and Com- merce was authorized to issue import licenses for cement from countries other than the United A rab Republic and the U.S.S.R. whenever there was an impending shortage of cement. July 19. The official quotation for the Djibouti franc was changed from Djibouti franc 1 = So. Sh. 0.0333 to Djibouti franc 1 = So. Sh. 0.0335, and that for the South Arabian d inar from dinar 1 = So. Sh. 17.143 to dinar 1 = So. Sh. 17.18. July 21. The cash deposit requirement for the opening of import letters of credit for rice imports from the United States and the United Arab Republic was reduced from a m in imum of 50 per cent to a minimum of 10 per cent. The same reduction was applied on August 17 to edible oils imported from the United States. August 18. Edible oils could be imported from the United States only. September 11. The cash deposit requirement on the opening of import letters of credit was reduced f rom a general m in imum of 50 per cent to one of 25 per cent. Deposits were not required for letters of credit not exceeding So. Sh. 30,000. October 25. Exports of charcoal and firewood were prohibited, and all export licenses for these products were declared null and void. October 29. Advance payments for imports without documentary evidence of actual import were prohibited. 435 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA Exchange Raie System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per South Afr ican Rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on the fixed rates for sterling against rand (R 171.2140 buying, and R 172.0715 selling, per £100) and the London market rates for sterling against other currencies. Subject to certain limitations, authorized dealers are permitted to conduct forward exchange opera- tions among themselves and with overseas banks. The rates for the U.S. dollar on Decem- ber 31, 1969, were US$1.4030 buying, and US$1.3945 selling, per R 1. Exchange Control Territory For purposes of control over transactions in securities, residents of Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland are regarded as nonresidents. Other- wise, there are v i r tua l ly no exchange or trade restrictions between the Republic of South Africa, South-West Africa, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland, and these are regarded as form- ing, with the Republic of South Afr ica, a single exchange control territory. Administration of Control Import and export licenses are issued by the Director of Imports and Exports acting on behalf of the Secretary for Commerce. Exchange licens- ing is the responsibility of the Treasury, which has delegated this authority to the South African Reserve Bank; in turn, the Reserve Bank has dele- gated to the commercial banks much of its licens- ing power. Appropriate exchange for licensed imports is made available by the authorized deal- ers upon presentation of suitable documentary evidence. Prescription of Currency South Africa is a member of the Sterling Area, and settlements with residents of countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency. Settlements with residents of other countries except Rhodesia may be made in ster- ling or rand to or from an External Account or 436 in any specified currency,1 or, for outgoing pay- ments only, in any other non-Sterling Area cur- rency. Settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts are the accounts of resi- dents of countries outside South Africa, South- West Afr ica, Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland ( the Blocked Accounts, however, of residents of the last three countries also are nonresident accounts —see section on Exchange Control Ter- ritory, above). They are divided into four cate- gories: Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, External Accounts, Rhodesian Accounts, and Blocked Accounts. Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries. They may be credited with all authorized pay- ments by South African residents to Sterling Area countries; with transfers from other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts; and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South Africa of pounds sterling or the currency of any other country in the Sterling Area (excluding South A f r ica ). They may be debited for pay- ments for exports to countries in the Sterling Area and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to South African residents; for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts (provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area coun try concerned) and to other Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts in South Afr ica; for purchases of any Sterling Area cur- rency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Rhodesian Accounts are held by residents of Rhodesia. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents; 1 In the South Afr ican exchange control regulations, specified currencies are listed as Austrian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Nether- lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with transfers from Nonresident Sterling Area Accounts, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned; with transfers from External Accounts in South Africa; with transfers from other Rhodesian Accounts; and with the proceeds from the sale to an authorized dealer in South Afr ica of Rhode- sian currency, any specified currency (see foot- note 1), or the currency of any country in the Sterling Area other than South Africa, provided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned. They may be debited for payments for exports to Rhodesia and other payments due by Rhodesian residents to South Afr ican residents; for transfers to other Rhodesian Accounts in South Africa for any pur- pose; for purchases of Rhodesian currency in South Afr ica; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. External Accounts are held by residents of countries other than Rhodesia outside the Sterling Area. They may be credited with all authorized payments by South African residents to such countries outside the Sterling Area; with transfers from other External Accounts in South Africa and from External Accounts in the United King- dom or other countries in the Sterling Area (pro- vided that the transaction has been approved in the Sterling Area country concerned); and with the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in South A f r ica of specified currencies (see footnote 1). They may be debited for payments to South Afr ican residents and residents of other countries in the Sterling Area for any purpose; for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts or to other External Accounts in South Africa or in any other country in the Sterling Area; for purchases of any non- sterling currency; and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in South Africa. Blocked Accounts represent ma in ly the proceeds from sales of South African securities by a non- resident to a resident. Such proceeds may not be transferred from South Afr ica or to another Blocked Account in South Africa, but may be retained on deposit or reinvested in securities which are quoted locally; such securities may be exported and sold abroad. If invested in Govern- ment, Municipal, or Public Utility Stocks, the SOUTH AFRICA proceeds on redemption at ma tur i ty are freely transferable to the nonresident owner, provided that he had held the securities for a continuous period of at least five years to redemption. Blocked rand may also be used to subscribe to a special issue, made available by the Government to nonresidents only, of five-year transferable bonds offered by tender on a discount basis and repayable in foreign currencies applicable to the domicile of the holder. Prior to the creation of this facility on June 11, 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to a special issue made available to nonresidents only, of three-year nonnegotiable, nontransferable bonds (called nonresident bonds) bearing interest at 31A per cent and repayable (in three annual installments f rom the date of subscription) in foreign curren- cies applicable to the domicile of the holder. In special cases, blocked rand may also be used for direct investment in manu fac tu r ing enterprises. Emigrants' assets that exceed the permissible transferable amoun t, and the proceeds of South A f r ican securities held by immigrants prior to their arrival in South Africa or acquired abroad w i th in three years of their arrival, are also blocked, but favorable consideration is given to the release of such immigrants' funds (see section on Capital, below). imports and import Payments All importers of goods requiring import licenses must be registered with the Director of Imports and Exports. Most licenses allow the importation of a range of commodities, but they are, in general, to be used for goods of the same type previously brought in by the importer. Import licenses are valid for imports from any country. Imports free of license include (1) all goods imported from Botswana, Lesotho, or Swa- ziland, and (2) all goods imported from Rhode- sia, Malawi, and Zambia that were grown, pro- duced, or manufac tured in those countries. The Import Control Regulations for 1969, as amended du r ing the year, distinguished between the following categories: ( 1) Goods on the free list, i.e., those that could be imported without import license. The list included tea, raw wool, various materials for the clothing industry in South Africa, newspa- 437 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA pers, books, periodicals, certain stationery items, petrol, oils, lubricants, scientific and laboratory equipment, and X-ray apparatus and film. (2) Goods that required import permits for which no specific annual quotas were fixed for ind iv idu al importers. This list included capital p lant and equ ipment and raw ma ter ia ls. A dis- tinction was made between two categories: goods required by m anu f a c tu r e rs for use or processing in the ir own factories, and goods imported by merchan ts for resale to indus t ry. Permits for raw ma ter ia ls were gran ted on a basis of six months' stocks at the cu r rent rate of consump t ion to m anu- fac turers who imported such goods for the ir own use. From J anu a ry 1969, manu fac tu re rs were in practice granted the ir f u ll requ i remen t s; some m anu f a c tu r e rs carried up to n ine months' stocks. For cap i tal p lant and equ ipment for pur- poses of replacement or to promote eff ic iency and p roduc t iv i ty, permits were granted free ly. For capital p lant and equ ipm ent requ ired for purposes of expans ion or for the es tab l ishment of new indus tr ies, perm i ts were also granted free ly where such expans ion or es tab l ishment of new indus tr ies had been approved. To merchants impor t ing these goods for resale, permits for p lant and equ ipment with an f.o.b. price not exceeding R 1,000 per single u n it and for raw ma te r ia ls were issued in accordance w i th the requ iremen ts of i n d i v i d u al firms. For p lant and equipment with an f.o.b. price for each i n d i v i d u al item of more than R 1,000, permits were generally issued free ly. (3) Motor vehicles and CKD (completely knocked down) ma te r ia ls for motor vehicles. M anu f a c tu r ed cars were not subject to quotas and pe rm i ts to import them were free ly available to private ind iv idua ls for the ir own use, w i th the fo l low ing excep t ion: for vehicles with an f.o.b. price not exceed ing R 1,900 the permit was freely issued only if the vehicle had been used by the applicant for not less than two months out- side South A f r i ca and provided that it had been registered in the name of the applicant du r ing th at period. Perm i ts for CKD ma ter ial for motor vehicles were granted as follows: (a) for light and heavy commercial vehicles, on the basis of nine mon ths' stock; (b) for locally m a n u f a c t u r ed passenger vehicles (i.e., vehicles for which an acceptable local content program had been sub- 438 m i t ted ) — the local content required was 45 per cent or more, on the basis of fu ll requirements; and ( c) for locally assembled passenger vehicles, on a restricted basis —additional import facilities, however, could be earned for these vehicles by unde r tak ing to increase local content. (4) Goods that required import permits and for wh ich quotas as determined from time to time were granted to ind iv idual importers. For pur- poses of allocation, these goods were divided in two subcategories, namely (a) general merchan- dise, and (b) certain specified items of merchan- dise. The items in subcategory (a) comprised a number of consumer goods, cameras and photo- graph ic materials, cotton, textile piece goods imported by merchants, and a number of other items not included elsewhere. Additional facilities above normal allocations were granted to import- ers upon app l ica t ion. Subcategory (b) included some consumer goods, a few capital goods, bulk Pharmaceu t ica ls, certain agr icu l tural commodities, and also some strategic items. (5) Goods on the restricted list, i.e., those that required specific import permits. The list contained only 22 items, largely agricultural products, such as fresh f ru i t, and consumer goods also produced in South Africa. Importers of gen- eral merchandise and merchant importers of raw ma te r ia ls w ish ing to import any of the goods in this group could convert the ir import permits into specific permits (in which case the goods to be imported were specifically described), provided th at the goods to be imported under the specific perm it for wh ich application was made fell w i th in the same general category as the goods detailed in the original import permit issued. Such individ- ual licenses could be obtained by the surrender of the o r ig inal import pe rm i ts on the basis of R 2 surrendered for R 1 of the specific permit ob ta ined .2 The first R 5,000 of an importer's total a n n u al quota could be converted into a spe- cific pe rm it for any articles in this category (w i th three m inor specified exceptions) on the basis of R 1 for R 1. In addition, if the goods in this cate- gory were imported under rebate of customs 2 The M in is ter of Economic A f fa i rs, however, could refuse applications for such conversions or authorize a conversion subject to such conditions as he m ight deter- mine. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution du ty, a specific perm it was not required and there was no import permit loss by conversion. The Import Control Regulations for 1970 con- ta in only three basic categories of imports for purposes of control: ( 1) goods that may be imported w i thout import permits; (2) goods that may be impor ted against import permits granted upon application to bona fide merchants and manu fac tu re rs to meet their fu ll reasonable requ i remen ts; and (3) goods that may only be imported against import permits under specific quotas determined f rom time to time. There no longer is a restricted list. It has been stated that the import allocations for 1970 will be main- ta ined at basically the same level as in 1969. Provided that licensing regulations are respected and upon p resen ta t ion to his bank of the necessary consignment documents (proof of impo r t a t ion ), an importer is granted exchange to pay for the import. Payments for Invisibles All payments to nonresidents for current invisi- bles require exchange licenses. For some types of transac t ion, there is no l im i ta t ion on the amoun t; for others, authority is delegated to the commer- cial banks to approve payments up to established limits. For cu r rent income payments, such as declared d iv idends, profits, royalties, etc., that accrue in South Africa, approval is given by the authorized banks w i thout reference to the Reserve Bank, provided that profits or dividends to be rem i t ted by nonresident-owned branches and subsidiaries are based on profits earned since December 31, 1959 and their rem i t tance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. Favorable consideration is, however, given by the Reserve Bank to such transfers where the use of local credit facilities is not regarded as excessive. Income derived from securities acquired with blocked funds or otherwise held by nonresidents is freely transferable to the monetary area of the owner. Limited amounts of exchange to pay for membersh ip fees, fam i ly maintenance, etc., are authorized. The basic allowance for tou r ist travel in a calendar year is R 2,000 for an adu lt and R 800 for a child under the age of 12. Separately, there is ano ther annual basic exchange allocation of R 250 for an adult (R 100 for a child under SOUTH AFRICA 12) for travel to the Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Rhodesia, Zambia, and Portu- guese East and West Africa. Applications for larger amoun ts are considered on their merits by the Reserve Bank. Residents leaving South Africa may take out free ly, as pa rt of the basic travel allowance, the equ iva lent of R 200 in banknotes, of which South A f r ican Reserve Bank notes may not exceed R 100 for travel to Malawi, Portuguese East A f r ica, Rhodesia, or Zambia, or R 20 for travel to other destinations. Foreign visitors leav- ing South Afr ica w i th in 12 months after arrival may take w i th them up to R 50 in Reserve Bank notes and any reasonable amount of foreign notes which they brought into the country or obtained f rom the disposal of instruments of exchange that they brought to and exchanged in South Africa. These l im i ta t ions on the export of Reserve Bank notes do not apply in the case of Bantu returning to neighboring countries, who are permitted to take w i th them reasonable amounts in the form of banknotes representing their earnings in South Africa. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of commodities considered as being in relatively short supply, or for which domestic prices are substantially lower than those obtain- able overseas, require licenses irrespective of desti- nation (w i th the exception of exports to Bots- wana, Lesotho, and Swaziland). Certain other goods are controlled for strategic reasons only, and pe rm i ts are required for their export to desti- na t ions other than the United Kingdom, any Commonwealth country, any British colony, pro- tectorate, or trust territory, or the United States. Special provisions apply to exports to the Demo- cratic Republic of Congo when these are valued at over R 5,000. The re-export of imported goods is controlled to prevent commodity and exchange arbitrage. Unless otherwise permitted, all export proceeds must be surrendered w i th in 6 months from the date of shipment and 30 days from the date of collection. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be surrendered 439 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA within 30 days from the date of their acquisition, unless exemption is obtained. Upon entry, resi- dents may bring in R 20 in South African Reserve Bank notes, and nonresidents R 50; however, resident and nonresident travelers com- ing from Malawi, Mozambique, Rhodesia, or Zambia are allowed to br ing in R 100 in South Afr ican Reserve Bank notes. Capital The proceeds of the sale of South Afr ican securities by nonresidents to residents must be credited to Blocked Accounts (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above). The following payments related to nonresident capital may be carried out by the authorized banks without ref- erence to the South African Reserve Bank: trans- fers to nonresidents of the proceeds on ma tur i ty of Government, Municipal, and Public Utility Stocks and National Savings Certificates, pro- vided that they were registered in the name of the nonresident transferee (who was not an emi- g ran t) on June 16, 1961, or, if the stocks were acquired a f ter June 16, 1961, provided that they are registered continuously in the beneficial owner's name for a period of not less than five years to redemption; normal capital repayments to nonresidents by certain "dying" mines in regular periodic installments not exceeding in any one year 10 per cent of the nom inal value per share; transfers to nonresident owners of any balance of up to R 50, left over from the reinvestment of blocked f u n d s; and t rans fe rs of up to R 20,000 to a nonresident benef ic iary from the proceeds of legacies from estates in South Africa that hold no foreign assets. Emigrant families whose assets do not exceed R 20,000 may have R 10,000 trans- ferred abroad as a settling-in allowance, and those with greater assets may have 50 per cent of their assets, up to R 30,000, transferred; any balance exceeding the permissible transferable amount is blocked. Prior to June 1964, blocked rand could be used to subscribe to the Govern- ment's issue of three-year nonresident rand bonds (for emigrants, subscriptions of up to R 30,000 a family were perm i t ted); this enabled the nonresi- dent to secure the transfer of his funds in converti- ble currencies at official market rates in three equal annual installments, together with interest at 3Î4 per cent a year. Since June 1964, similar 440 facilities have been available through subscription to five-year transferable bonds. The South Afr ican Reserve Bank may approve transfers of repayments at maturity to nonresident holders of mortgage bonds registered in their names on or before June 16, 1961. Favorable consideration is given for the transfer by nonresi- dent-owned branches and subsidiaries of open or loan account balances or undistributed current profits, or for the transfer of any dividends by them, provided that the remittance does not involve the use of local credit facilities. The phys- ical export of nonresident-owned securities is per- mitted, except by emigrants in excess of their settling-in allowances. Inward capital transfers require exchange control approval; certain types of such transfers are freely permitted by open general licenses. Foreign exchange accruing to residents from capi- tal transfers and transactions must be surrendered. Outward transfers of capital by residents in general require the approval of the South African Reserve Bank and are usually not allowed. Transfers by residents for the purchase of South African (or other) shares on external stock exchanges are not permitted (except in amounts not exceeding R 2,000 for each shareholder, to allow South African residents to exercise rights arising from existing holdings of shares in foreign companies quoted only on foreign stock exchanges), although South African stockbrokers may engage in arbitrage transactions in securities, subject to certain conditions designed to prevent any net outflow of exchange. Applications by South Afr ican residents to retain in, or transfer to, neighboring territories funds for bona fide long-term investment in specific development projects or for the expansion of existing South African owned or controlled projects are consid- ered by the South Afr ican Reserve Bank and the Treasury on their merits; but such applications are scrutinized, in part to prevent remittances to those areas from being used as a first step in the onward transfer of capital to other countries. For three years after their arrival in South Africa, immigrants may dispose of their foreign assets held abroad and also invest in South African securities abroad. However, the proceeds from the sale of all securities brought in by immigrants are blocked; the blocking is normally for at least ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution three years, but the restriction may be removed on amounts up to R 20,000 or more, to enable the imm igrant to set up a home and to meet cur- rent living expenses. There are normally three ways in which hold- ers of blocked rand can repatriate funds from South A f r ica: ( 1) by taking up special nonresi- dent bonds issued by the Government (see above) —these ma ture in five years, when the redemption proceeds may be w i thdrawn at the official rate; (2) by holding certain Govern- ment, Municipal, and Public Utility Stocks, and Na t ional Savings Certificates for at least five years to redemption, when the proceeds can be transferred abroad at the official rate; and ( 3) by exporting South African shares bought on the Johannesburg stock exchange, provided that they have been restrictively endorsed, and selling them abroad ( at a price which may involve a premium or a discount on the South African quotation). Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in South Afr ica for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities, authorized dealers, regis- tered gold producers, and authorized industrial and professional users are not allowed to pur- chase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. All exports of gold require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank; the approval authority has been delegated to authorized dealers in respect of exports of jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler (subject to a written declaration to the effect that the jewelry will be brought back to South Africa on the traveler's re tu rn) and in respect of exports of gold jewelry by manufac tur ing jewelers (sub- ject, except for exports to Malawi, Rhodesia, and Zambia, to a written declaration that the articles are in fu l ly manu fac tu red form and that the gold content of each does not exceed 75 per cent of the selling.price to the u l t ima te consignee). Fur- thermore, authorized dealers may without refer- ence to the Reserve Bank allow residents to export currency coins, including gold coins, up to R 300 for each applicant during a calendar year. The gold-mining industry sells its ou tput to the Reserve Bank, except for sales effected on the industry's behalf in the free market. SOUTH AFRICA The Mint from time to time strikes gold coins that do not circulate freely in South Africa as currency; these are made available in limited numbers to resident collectors, while the bulk is sold in non-Sterling Area countries. Imports of gold are confined ma in ly to coins for numismatic purposes and to certain types of jewelry. Changes during 1969 May 27. The Government announced that import allocations for 1969 would be maintained at the same level as for 1968. This meant (because a first issue of import permits of 75 per cent of the total 1968 allocations had already been made on October 25, 1968 for 1969) that the new issue would be equal to 25 per cent of 1968 allocations. Except for capital goods (of an f.o.b. value exceeding R 1,000 per u n i t ), this issue was made automatically and importers did not need to apply for import permits. At the same time, the Government confirmed that importers with sufficient funds to finance addi- tional imports could apply for a larger allocation, if existing facilities were not adequate for their needs. Allocations for raw materials to both mer- chants and manufac turers were granted to meet their fu ll reasonable requirements, allowing for stocks of up to nine months. May 29. The restrictions were lifted that on October 21, 1968 had been imposed on exports to the Democratic Republic of Congo. June 18. The Government indicated that it would act more leniently in applying the exchange control relaxations announced on July 31, 1968. In particular, a less restrictive attitude would be taken to requests for outward direct investment by residents and for the transfer abroad of the local sale proceeds of nonresident- owned direct investment in South Africa. In addi- tion, the Government would now consider applica- tions from recognized South Afr ican financial ins t i tu t ions (other than bank ing institutions) which regularly received investment funds from the public, to make portfolio investments in for- eign shares and securities quoted only on foreign stock exchanges. Applications for foreign exchange in connec- tion w i th these relaxations were required to be 441 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTH AFRICA submitted through normal banking channels. The relaxations would not be applicable, however, where the financing of capital exports involved the use of bank credit. The relaxations were pri- marily aimed at assisting in the removal of excess l iqu id i ty from the private nonbank sector. July 11. Temporary import controls were imposed on certain goods used for weighing and measuring. This move was to m in im ize the cost of conversion to the metric system. Import per- mits would be granted f ree ly, provided that the goods were designed for use with metric measure- ments. November 21. The M in is ter of Economic A f fa i rs announced that the import a l loca t ions for 1970 would be ma in ta ined at basically the same level as in 1969. He also announced an adm in is- trative simplification of the impo rt regime. Henceforth, there would be only three basic cate- gories of imports for purposes of control: ( 1) goods that may be imported w i thout import per- m i t s; ( 2) goods that may be imported against impo rt perm i ts granted upon application to bona fide me rchan ts and manu fac tu re rs to meet their f u ll reasonable requ iremen ts; and ( 3) goods that may only be imported against import permits under specific quotas determined from time to t ime. There would no longer be a restricted list. November 26. South Africa ceased to invoke Ar t ic le XII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. December 11. A revised Customs Un ion Agree- ment with Botswana, Lesotho, and Swaziland was signed to replace the 1910 agreement, w i th effect from March 1, 1970. December 30. A f t er no t ing a policy s ta tement of South A f r i ca w i th respect to the sale of gold and the hand l ing of its reserves, the In te rna t ional Mone ta ry Fund decided that it would buy gold offered to it by South A f r ica whenever the la t ter ind ica ted th at the o f fer was in accordance with this statement. 442 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SOUTHERN YEMEN1 Exchange System The currency of Southern Yemen is the South- ern Yemen Dinar, which is issued by the South- ern Yemen Currency Au tho r i ty and is defined as equivalent to 2.13281 grams of fine gold, corre- sponding to SYD 1 = US$2.40. No par value has been established for the Southern Yemen d inar. The Currency Authority's rates for the purchase and sale of U.S. dollars cannot exceed l/2 per cent either side of pa r i ty; at present the Currency Authority's dealings in U.S. dollars and sterling with authorized dealers take place at Ys per cent either side of parity. Southern Yemen is a member of the Sterling Area. Exchange transactions must be carried out through the in te rmed ia ry of authorized dealers in accordance with prescription of currency regula- tions that generally are similar to those applicable in the United Kingdom. All payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohib- ited. All imports require ind iv idual licenses. A state Board of Trade, which is a department of the Economic Organization for the Public Sector and Na t ional Planning, handles certain imports of consumer goods but has a monopoly only over imports of flour, sugar, whea t, rice, cooking oil, tea, cigarettes, and motor vehicles. All exports require ind iv idual licenses. Imports into and exports from the free port of Aden are free of exchange control and trade control and are exempt from customs duties. Foreign investments that have been approved 1 Southern Yemen became a member of the Interna- tional Mone tary Fund on September 29, 1969. und er the Foreign Investment Law of July 22, 1969 may be granted various exemptions from import du ty and other tax facilities. Foreign employees of approved enterprises may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their salaries or wages. Changes during 1969 July 9. The Public Sequestration Ordinance, 1969 was issued. It provided for the supervision in the pub l ic interest of any company tak ing or about to take action against the public interest. July 22. Law No. 27, the Law for the Encour- agement of Foreign Investment, was enacted. For approved foreign investments, the act provided for, in ter alia, exemption from customs duties on impor ts of mach inery and spare parts and certain exemptions from state taxes. Foreign employees of firms considered as approved investments would be permitted to transfer abroad up to 50 per cent of their salaries or wages. September 1. All exports and imports were placed under ind iv idual licensing. Previously, vir- tually all imports from non-CMEA countries were on open general license, while individual import licenses were ma in ly required for gold, silver, p la t inum, diamonds, and other precious metals and stones, and for imports from CMEA countries. November 27. Law No. 37 was enacted. It provided for the creation of the Economic Orga- nization for the Public Sector and National Plan- ning. November 27. Thirty-six foreign companies operating in banking, insurance, shipping, petro- leum ma rke t ing, and commerce were national- ized. 443 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0126953 gram of fine gold per Spanish Peseta or Ptas 70.00 = US$1. The off ic ial l im i ts are Ptas 69.48 buy ing, and Ptas 70.53 selling, per US$1. Market rates for speci- fied currencies l admitted to the exchange ma rket vary between l im i ts which result f rom combining the off ic ial l im i ts for the U.S. dollar ma in ta ined by Spain and such l im i ts in force in the coun t ry of the other currency concerned. Official buy ing and selling rates for these currencies are fixed daily by the Spanish Foreign Exchange Ins t i tu te ( IEME ), ac t ing in consultation w i th the author- ized banks. Purchases and sales of clearing cur- rencies are centralized in the IEME which pub- lishes the rates at which it settles the transactions it carries out direct and the rate applicable to banknotes. These rates are based on the rates of the previous week. Authorized banks quote buy ing and selling rates for Moroccan d irhams. They are allowed to operate in foreign markets for spot transactions and fo rwa rd transactions related to commercial transactions for up to 180 days. Exchange Control Territory The Peninsular Territories of the Spanish State, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands, Ceuta, Melilla, and Spanish Sahara cons t i tu te a single exchange control territory, the Spanish Monetary Area. Administration of Control On a policy level, controls are administered by the M in is t ry of Commerce and, on a technical adm in is t ra t ive level, by the IEME and by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade in the Min- istry of Commerce, in cooperation w i th authorized banks. Prescription of Currency Settlements on account of merchandise transac- tions and invisibles other than those w i th bilateral payments agreement countries may be made in any specified currency,1 but in practice they are 1 In addition to U.S. dollars, these currencies are Aus- trian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish 444 usua l ly made in the currency determined on the basis of the coun try of origin or destination. Set- tlements w i th bilateral payments agreement countries 2 are made through agreement accounts expressed in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are three types of nonresident accounts: external accounts in convertible pesetas, external accounts in internal pesetas, and nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies. Ex ternal accounts in convertible pesetas may be credited w i th proceeds from the sale in the Spanish exchange market of any foreign curren- cies listed in that marke t; with authorized current and capital payments which have been liberalized or authorized by license, when such payments are to be made in pesetas or specified foreign curren- cies; w i th transfers from other similar accounts in convertible pesetas; with interest received on bal- ances held in these accounts; and with receipts from the National Lottery (when evidence is sub- mitted that the ticket was acquired with foreign exchange). They may be debited for the purchase of foreign currencies (including foreign bank- notes) listed in the Spanish exchange marke t; for paymen ts for Spanish exports; for investments in Spain; for transfers to any other external account; and for any other type of payment in Spain. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. External accounts in internal pesetas may be credited w i th pensions and salaries obtained by the account holder and not otherwise transfer- able; w i th receipts from the Na t ional Lottery (when no evidence is submitted that the ticket kroner, deutsche mark, Finnish markkaa, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, and Swiss francs. 2 Bulgaria, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Equatorial Guinea, Hungary, Mexico, Para- guay, Poland, Ruman ia, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab Republic, Uruguay, and Yugoslavia. Spain also has a bilateral payments agreement with Morocco re- qu i r ing paymen ts between the two countries to be made in bilateral d i rhams or bilateral pesetas. The payments agreement w i th Uruguay expired on February 6, 1970. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution was acquired with foreign exchange); and with interest received on balances held in these accounts. They may be debited to pay the per- sonal expenses in Spain of the account holder and his close relatives (s taff expenses if the account is opened in the name of a company) and for the purchase of government bonds, of fixed-interest-bearing stocks issued by Spanish public corporations, and of shares quoted on the stock exchange. They may also be debited for the purchase for the use of the account holder of town and country properties that do not represent investments for commercial, industrial, or agricul- tural purposes. All other entries on these accounts require the prior authorization of the IEME. Nonresident accounts in convertible foreign currencies may be held by nonresident foreign nationals, nonresident Spanish nationals, and nonresident firms or banks; resident foreign na t iona ls may ma in ta in such accounts only if opened before J anu a ry 1, 1968. The deposits may be either sight or time deposits. The accounts may be credited w i th convertible curren- cies quoted in the Spanish exchange market and with any amount of interest. They may be debited freely for reconversion into the currency initially deposited, for the purchase of other con- vertible currencies quoted in the Spanish exchange marke t, and for conversion into pesetas, inc lud ing the transfer to an external account in external pesetas. Overdrafts are prohibited, except for mail credits in favor of foreign banks. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All imports require either an import license or an "import declaration" issued by the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade. Provided that import prices are not considered abnormal, import decla- rations are issued freely for a large number of goods (mostly raw materials, capital goods, and spare parts, but also some consumer goods) in- cluded in an import free list that applies to most countries w i th which Spain has no bilateral pay- ments agreements; the free list also applies to specified imports from Iran and Japan.3 All other imports require licenses. For a few commodities, 3 The import free list does not apply to the payments agreement countries (except the United Arab Republic) SPAIN import licenses are not at present being issued; these include passenger automobiles. There are global quotas for specified imports from countries to which the free list applies, but licenses are usually granted up to considerably larger amounts. With certain exceptions, the global quota regime also applies to goods of Japanese origin. Licenses for specified imports f rom Bulgaria, Czechoslova- kia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and Yugoslavia are issued freely. Imports of certain agricultural products, some raw materials, petroleum prod- ucts, and tobacco are state traded; some goods formally listed as being subject to state trading, such as feedgrains, may in fact be freely imported by private traders. Imports of certain agricultural products that are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction and previously were state traded are subject to variable import levies. Import subsidies are paid on certain foods tu f fs and specified other essential commodities. Exchange in the appropri- ate currency to pay for authorized imports is granted freely. Except for capital goods, suppliers' credit for imports is not normally permitted to ex- ceed 90 days. All import transactions must be domiciled with an authorized bank, and the import payment must be made through the intermediary of the bank of domiciliation. All imports are subject to an advance deposit in pesetas equal to 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value of the import transaction. The deposit must be lodged with the Bank of Spain prior to presenting or to A fghan i s tan, Albania, Andorra, Bhutan, mainland Ch ina, Repub l ic of Ch ina, North Korea, Laos, Mongolian Republic, Nepal, North Viet-Nam, San Ma r ino, Tibet, the U.S.S.R., and the Yemen Arab Republic. The coun t r ies to wh ich the import free list applies are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, United K ingdom, and their over- seas territories; and Algeria, Argen t ina, Australia, Bar- bados, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bu rma, Bu rund i, Cam- bodia, Cameroon, Canada, Central Afr ican Republic, Ceylon, Chad, Chile, Democratic Republic of Congo, People's Repub l ic of Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Dahomey, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, F in land, Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guate- mala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indo- nesia, Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Republic of Korea, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan A rab Repub l ic, Malagasy Repub l ic, Ma law i, Ma lays ia, Ma l i, Ma ld ive Islands, Ma l ta, Mau r i tan ia, Maur i t ius, Mozambique, New Zealand, N icaragua, N iger, Nigeria, Pak is tan, Panama, Peru, Ph i l ipp ines, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierre Leone, Singapore, Somalia, South Afr ica, Southern Yemen, Sudan, Swaziland, Tan- zania, Tha i land, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United States, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet- Nam, and Zambia. 445 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN the import declaration or app l ica t ion for import license to the M in i s t ry of Commerce. The deposit, wh ich bears no in teres t, is re ta ined for a period of six mon ths. Payments for invisibles All t ran s fe rs abroad and p aym en ts by residents in f avor of nonresidents on account of c u r r e nt invisibles are subject to au tho r iza t ion, m a i n ly for the purpose of check ing cap i tal t ran sac t ion s. Payments up to Ptas 5,000 for any purpose may be made freely. For a large proportion of in- visibles, the banks are authorized to sell foreign exchange f ree ly, provided that the request is sup- ported by appropriate documen ts. For ce r ta in services transfers may be made f ree ly up to a pre-established amoun t; for t ran s fe rs wh ich exceed that amount licenses are granted l ibera l ly. Holders of Spanish securities (exc lud ing secu- rities issued by p r iva te companies acqu ired through d irect subsc r ip t ion) may f ree ly t r a n s f er abroad accrued in teres t, d iv idends, and proceeds from the disposal of subscr ip t ion r igh ts; the securities mu st have been pu rchased w i th con- ve r t ib le pesetas or w i th pesetas re su l t ing f r om the sale of fo re ign exchange quo ted in the Spanish fore ign exchange m a rk e t. Prof i ts and d iv id ends on d i rect inve s tmen ts are also t r a n s f e r a b le abroad w i t h o ut res tr ic t ion. A general license p e rm i ts the re insu rance abroad of risks insu red in Spain w i th Spanish firms or w i th fore ign in su r an ce compa- nies ope ra t ing in Spa in. In su rance con t r a c ts abroad may not be conc luded, except wh e re t h ey concern exports and imports of goods. There is a basic tou r i st exchange a l lowance of Ptas 50,000 a person a yea r; in add i t ion, alloca- tions of Ptas 50,000 a person a t r ip may be taken up, subject to the p r ior ag reement of the IEME, once the basic allocation has been used up. The au tho r ized banks are also p e rm i t t ed to sell the equ iv a l ent of Ptas 2,000 a day for bus i- ness trips, up to the equ iva lent of Ptas 100,000 a person for each t r ip. For longer bus iness t r ip s, the bank must apply to the IEME for add i t ional exchange, which is granted l ibe ra l ly for th is pur- pose. Travelers may take w i th them Ptas 3,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. 446 Exports and Export Proceeds All exports are sub ject to prior l icens ing by the Directorate-General of Foreign Trade. Exports to all de s t ina t ions of olives for oil produc t ion are suspended, wh i le other types of olives may be exported f ree ly. W i th very few exceptions, licenses for expor ts are gran ted free ly. All export pro- ceeds must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME th rough au thor ized banks. Certain ag r icu l tu ral exports are subject to an export tax. Proceeds from Invisibles All exchange proceeds f rom invisibles must be sold in the exchange market or to the IEME through au thor ized banks. Travelers may bring in a m a x im um of Ptas 50,000 in notes of the Bank of Spain. Capital Foreign cap i tal pa r t ic ipa t ion is perm i t ted freely in most Spanish indus t r ies, as specified in a decree of Ap r il 18, 1963. In ce r ta in other indus- t r ies, fore ign inves tment of up to 50 per cent of the cap i tal of the en terpr ise is perm i t ted f ree ly, and th at wh ich exceeds 50 per cent requ ires the au tho r iza t ion of the Council of Ministers; for p a r t i c ip a t ion in Spanish sh ipp ing companies, the fo rmer ra t io is 40 per cent. Foreign investment is not p e rm i t t ed in Spanish enterprises whose activ- i ty is d i r e c t ly connected with na t ional defense, p u b l ic in fo rma t ion, and cer ta in pub l ic services. New inv e s tm en t, both foreign and Spanish, for the e s t a b l i s hm e nt of Spanish enterprises in a large n um b er of specified sectors that are under the ju r i sd ic t ion of the M in is tr ies of Indu s t ry and A g r i c u l t u re is f ree f rom control, provided that ce r ta in m i n im um conditions are met; these condi- t ions re la te ma in ly to the size of the enterprise and its po ten t ial ou tpu t. Investment in ex is t ing en terpr ises in these sectors is permitted free ly even if the m i n im um conditions are not fu l f i l led. All inve s tment in a few specified indu s t r ial and ag r icu l tu ral sectors requires prior au thor iza t ion by the Gove rnmen t; investment in all other indu s t r ial and ag r icu l tu ral sectors and in the tour- ist sector is free. Foreign inve s tment for the purpose of modern- izing, expanding, and establishing Spanish enter- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution prises may be effected either by t ran s fe r r ing currencies that are negotiable in the Madrid exchange marke t, by us ing convertible pesetas, by b r ing ing in capital goods, by re inves t ing prof i ts or capital transferable under the Foreign Investment Law, or by providing know-how, patents, or licenses. Proceeds, including capital appreciation, from the l iqu ida t ion of foreign direct inves tmen ts made af ter J anu a ry 1, 1950 for the purpose of estab- lishing, modernizing, and expanding Spanish enterprises may be transferred freely. Transfers abroad of pr inc ipal of investments made by non- residents before J anu a ry 1, 1950 are subject to prior authorization by the IEME; such au thor iza- tion is rarely given. Purchases by nonresidents of shares in most Spanish companies, as specified in Decree No. 701 of Ap r il 18, 1963 ( inc lud ing inves tment trusts but exc lud ing those companies whose activ- ity is directly connected w i th national defense, public in fo rma t ion, and certain public services) are perm i t ted freely. This applies to shares acquired by Spaniards resident abroad, as well as by resident or nonresident foreigners, either w i th convertible pesetas or with pesetas resu l t ing f rom the conversion of foreign currencies negotiable in the Spanish exchange ma rke t. Proceeds, inc lud ing capital gains, from the liquidation of such shares acquired a f ter Janua ry 1, 1950 may be trans- ferred abroad at any time, or used for f u r t h er purchases of shares. The above applies also to bonds and other fixed-income securities repre- senting debts of Spanish companies; there is no limit on bond holdings. Proceeds obtained from the sale of nonresident holdings of shares of Spanish companies and other Spanish securities acquired before Janua ry 1, 1950 may be used to purchase other Spanish securities but may not be transferred abroad w i thout prior authorization by the IEME; such authorization is rarely given. Investment in Spanish real estate by nonresi- dents is freely permitted if financed w i th pesetas derived from convertible currencies or f rom bal- ances in convertible peseta accounts. The IEME has empowered authorized banks to provide the investor with a document cer t ify ing that he owns such pesetas; this is the only requ irement for official registration of the change in ownership. SPAIN Certain investments in real estate may also be financed f rom external accounts in internal pese- tas (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Irrespective of the method of financing, coun try properties purchased may not exceed 4 hectares of irrigated land or 20 hectares of un irr i- gated land. Ou tward capital transfers by residents require approval. Requests by firms to invest abroad in the same l ine of business are granted ra ther liber- ally, provided that the investment contributes to the expansion of Spanish exports; this includes pa r t ic ipa t ion in foreign enterprises. Other direct inves tmen ts are subject to more severe restric- tions. Por tfo l io investments by all residents and purchases of real estate abroad by private per- sons are severely restricted. Approval of requests by residents to grant loans to nonresidents is based on criteria similar to those applied to residents' requests to make d irect investments abroad. Suppliers' credits by Spanish residents to non- residents requ i re authorization by the Directorate- General of Foreign Trade; such authorization accompanies the export license. Before issuing the license, the IEME may be consulted about the g ran t ing of the credit. There has been no experience w i th the issuing of bonds in the Spanish capital market by nonres- idents, nor with short-term credits by Spanish banks to nonresidents. Credits to nonresidents for transac t ions with Spain may, however, be author- ized by the IEME. Also, the authorized banks may ex tend various types of credit to nonresi- dents, provided that this credit is financed with f u n ds deposited in Spain in nonresident converti- ble currency accounts; some forms of such credit do not require prior approval by the IEME. For t ran s fe rs abroad of inheritances and dowries, authorizations are granted liberally when small amoun ts are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Spain for num i sma t ic purposes. With this excep- tion, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jew- 447 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SPAIN elry, al home or abroad. By law, only Ihe IEME is allowed lo import or export gold. Changes during 1969 January 7. Procedural changes wenl inlo effecl relaling lo Ihe hand l ing of import declaralions and licenses and lo melhods of paying for imports. All import Iransaclions musí be domi- ciled wilh an aulhorized bank, and Ihe import paymenl musí be made Ihrough Ihe in lermed iary of Ihe bank of domicilialion. Applicalions for import declaralions and licenses could be sub- milled lo aulhorized banks, which would forward Ihem lo Ihe Direclorale-General of Foreign Trade. January 1. Only Ihe following lypes of import licenses would henceforth be issued: licenses for liberalized Irade; for globalized Irade; for irade lhal is neilher liberalized nor globalized (corre- sponding lo Ihe previous bilaleral licenses and slale Irading l icenses); for imports wilhoul eilher foreign exchange or compensalion; and for spe- cial Iransaclions. January 1. An IEME circular of December 18, 1968 concerning procedural changes for import paymenls wenl inlo effecl. January 3. IEME Circular No. 253 provided facililies for exporters lo Ihe Uniled Kingdom enabling Ihem lo meel Ihe import deposils pay- able by U.K. importers. February 4. Global import quolas for 1969 were announced. The number of quolas remained unchanged; Iheir lolal value was almosl 10 per cení higher lhan in 1968. March 5. An l idump ing dulies on certain iron and sleel produc ís expired. On July 29 and Augusl 15, Ihe remaining an l idump ing dulies were removed. April 1. IEME Circular No. 256 amending Ihe regulalions governing Ihe operalion of Ihe Span- ish foreign exchange markel came inlo effecl. They provided for Ihe daily fixing of official rales by Ihe IEME joinlly wilh represenlalives of Ihe aulhorized banks. May 79. A bilaleral paymenls agreemenl was signed wilh Equalorial Guinea. Il came inlo effecl on October 13. July 7. A paymenls arrangemenl signed on May 29, 1969 belween Ihe Nalional Bank of 448 Yugoslavia and Ihe Spanish Foreign Exchange Inslilule wenl inlo effecl. The Iwo inslilulions opened accounls denominated in U.S. dollars in each olher's names and granled each olher a reciprocal credit The slaled purpose of Ihe arrangemenl was lo pul currenl paymenls on a convertible currency basis. The exisling bilaleral paymenls agreemenl was lerminaled. July 1. A irade protocol wilh Yugoslavia wenl inlo effecl by which Yugoslavia undertook to apply ils general liberalizalion regime lo com- modilies originaling in and consigned from Spain, while Spain undertook lo granl Yugoslav goods OECD Irealmenl. Quola lisls for nonliberalized commodilies were attached. Trade belween Ihe Iwo counlries would, to Ihe exlenl possible, be balanced. September 26. New export credils granled by Ihe aulhorized banks could be sel off againsl Ihe amounls Ihey had lo invesl in public securities. September 30. IEME Circular No. 260 per- mitted aulhorized banks lo open sighl, savings, and lime deposil accounls in convertible foreign cur- rencies for foreign correspondenl banks and non- residenl privale individuals. The inleresl rales would be Ihose applicable lo each comparable lype of accounl in inlernal péselas. The specific approval of Ihe IEME was required for any advance wilhdrawal of lime deposils on Ihese nonresidenl accounls. November 14. Decree No. 2799/1969 Irans- ferred lo Ihe Bank of Spain Ihe operational func- tions of Ihe IEME. December 9. The bilaleral paymenls arrange- menl wilh Ihe Republic of China was lerminaled. Selllemenls had already been on a convertible currency basis for several monlhs. December 11. An advance import deposil scheme was inlroduced by Decree No. 3100. The scheme required importers lo lodge a pésela deposil equal to 20 per cen í of Ihe c.i.f. value of Ihe import Iransaclion wilh Ihe Bank of Spain prior lo presenting Ihe import declaration or application for import license lo Ihe Minislry of Commerce. The deposil would be relained for a period of six monlhs. The arrangement would apply until December 31, 1970. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN Exchange Rate System The par value is 2.55187 grams of fine gold per Sudanese Pound or LSd 1 = US$2.87156. Official rates for transactions in sterling are fixed by the Bank of Sudan (the central b a n k ), whose rates for transactions with authorized banks and the Government are LSd 0.8348 buy ing, and LSd 0.8368 selling, per <£ stg. 1. The banks' rates in dealing with the public are LSd 0.8323 buy ing for telegraphic transfers, LSd 0.8303 buy ing for mail transfers, LSd 0.8393 selling for amoun ts up to <£ stg. 10,000, and LSd 0.83906 selling for amounts over <£ stg. 10,000. Official rates for the U.S. dollar are fixed daily by the Bank of Sudan and are based on London market rates. The au- thorized banks quote their own rates for other cur- rencies, based on the Bank of Sudan's selling rate for sterling and the previous day's closing market quotation in London for the currency concerned. Most exchange for travel purposes is subject to a surcharge of 19.65 per cent calculated on the par value; the resulting effective exchange rate is LSd 1 = US$2.40.1 Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Sudan, much of the detail being carried out by authorized banks. The issuance of registration forms and the licensing of imports and exports (except those of gold) are the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, but all regis- tration forms and licenses must be validated by the exchange control authorities (Bank of Sud an ). Import payments and other foreign pay- ments are approved within the framework of an annual foreign exchange budget.2 1 On Janua ry 20, 1970, the rate of US$2.40 per LSd 1 was made applicable also to cer ta in inwa rd and out- ward remittances. Sudanese nationals resident abroad who remitted foreign exchange to Sudan for conversion at this rate could at the same rate obtain foreign ex- change equivalent to 50 per cent of the amount con- verted in any one year and use this exchange to make personal remittances abroad. The following were not entitled to avail themselves of this arrangement: Sudan- ese Government officials (other than seconded s ta f f) and students receiving educational allowances at the official rate. 2 A foreign exchange budget was first drawn up late in 1968. Prescription of Currency Transactions with bilateral countries 3 are nor- mally settled through the relevant bilateral account in Sudanese pounds or pounds sterling; however, most noncommercial invisibles except those payable to the United Arab Repub l ic4 have to be settled outside these accounts. Pay- ments to all other countries and monetary areas ( the "convertible area") may be made in Sudanese pounds to the credit of any nonresident account or in any foreign currency, while receipts from the "convertible area" may be accepted in Sudanese pounds from any nonresident account or in any convertible or externally convertible currency. Nonresident Accounts Residents of all countries other than bilateral countries may under certain circumstances main- tain accounts in Sudanese pounds designated non- resident accounts; these are exchangeable into any foreign currency. Bilateral accounts are used for most transactions w i th countries with which the Sudan has bilateral payments agreements (see footnote 3 ). Blocked Accounts are ma in ta ined by former residents; earnings accruing on these accounts may be transferred in reasonable amounts, and balances, which are not negotiable, may be used within the Sudan by the account holder for his personal expenses up to limits established in each case by the exchange control authorities. Except for the crediting of interest, all debits and credits to Blocked Accounts require approval. Imports and Import Payments Certain imports are prohibited for protective reasons. Imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Permitted 3 The Sudan has bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Eastern G e rm a n y, Hungary, India, Poland, and United Arab Republic. 4 Payments to the United Arab Republic for Suez Canal dues must be made in convertible currencies, and most proceeds from exports of invisibles to the United Arab Republic must be received in convertible curren- cies. All other payments are settled through the bilateral account. 449 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN imports are divided into three categories: (1) Imports not subject to licensing, including goods imported directly by the Government, books, periodicals, trade samples, and goods imported by parcel post or air freight, the value of which does not exceed LSd 2, or, for gifts, LSd 5. (2) Imports on an open general license list, which comprises a number of essential goods, including raw materials and some capital and consumer goods. The open general license is designed to permit imports of these goods freely from any source. (3) Imports subject to individual licens- ing; some of these are subject to quotas. Certain commodities, including sugar, tea, coffee, and salt, are imported by state agencies only. For goods that require individual licensing, import licenses must be obtained f rom the Minis- try of Commerce and Supply and validated by the Exchange Control Depar tment of the central bank.5 For goods on the open general license list, importers must register their import transac- tions with the Ministry of Commerce and Supply, before entering into firm contracts with foreign suppliers; the registration form must be validated by the central bank (or an authorized bank for imports from ma in land China and countries with which payments agreements are in fo rce ). The Ministry of Commerce and Supply checks to see that prices are reasonable, while the central bank (or an authorized b ank) checks the observance of the prescription of currency requirements and the terms of payment. If payment is made under a letter of credit, the authorized bank usually requires a 40 per cent cash margin upon its establishment. In practice, for many goods whose importation the banks are not allowed to finance, a 100 per cent margin deposit must be made. Ceilings are currently in effect on imports of all commodities unless they are of Indian or U.A.R. origin. These may affect the operation of the licensing and validation procedures set out above.6 5 Import license applications for goods of Indian or U.A.R. origin are accepted at any time, even where the commodity in question is under quota and the quota has already been exceeded. 6 On February 1, 1970, virtually all imports from countries with which no payments agreement was in force were prohibited. 450 A surcharge of 15 per cent is levied on the c.i.f. value of all imports. A stamp du ty of LSd 5 is levied on the application form for each remit- tance in respect of imports; government remit- tances, however, are exempt. A license fee of LSd 2 is payable on all registration forms and licenses for imports valued at more than LSd 10. Payments for Invisibles Most payments for invisibles require licenses. Remittances are permitted for family maintenance (up to LSd 500 a person a yea r ), educational expenses (up to LSd 840 a student a year for Europe, in addition to tutition fee s ), and for cer- tain other purposes. Travel allowances for tour- ism and other purposes (except pilgrimages) are authorized by the Bank of Sudan at a basic rate equivalent to LSd 63 for each adult, and LSd 21 for each child, every other year. However, exchange allocations for tourist travel to countries other than the United Arab Republic have been suspended. Allowances for travel to the United Arab Republic are the equivalent of LSd 100 for an adult, and LSd 25 a child, a year and are authorized by the commercial banks. In practice, allocations of exchange for travel purposes may exceed the basic allowances. Exchange for travel (other than travel for educational or business purposes, medical trea tmen t, or public sector official du t ies) must be purchased at an effective exchange rate of US$2.40 per LSd 1. Salaried foreign nationals not permanently res- ident in the Sudan are permitted to remit their bona fide current savings to any country other than Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, or South Africa. Shipping charges, insurance premiums, profits, interest, and dividends earned by nonresidents may be remitted freely upon presentation of the required documents. Income accruing to emi- grants f rom blocked assets in the Sudan (includ- ing income from Blocked Accounts) may be remitted up to LSd 1,500 a year. Travelers may not take out of the Sudan more than LSd 10 in Sudanese currency; pilgrims may not export Sudanese banknotes. Stamp duties are payable on the application forms for virtually all payments for invisibles. The duty is LSd 10 on applications for remittances of profits and dividends, LSd 5 on applications for other transfers and for foreign ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution exchange for business travel, LSd 2 on applica- tions for foreign exchange for other travel, and from LSd 1 to LSd 0.25 on applications for remittances for other purposes; government remittances are exempt. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. W i th the exception of exports to the United A rab Republic and exports of domestic products in short supp ly, which are subject to ind iv idual licensing, exports do not requ ire a license. Exporters must, how- ever, subm it an export form to an authorized bank. Au thor ized banks may approve these fo rms only if payment is in the fo rm of cash against documen ts or against sight letters of credit; exports on credit require the approval of the Bank of Sudan. Banks are also held responsible for checking export prices. The proceeds of exports must be repa t r ia ted and surrendered through an authorized bank. When the terms of payment are cash against documen ts or sight le t ter of credit, proceeds must be surrendered on delivery of the shipping documents; in other cases a surrender date is usually specified. The Gum Ma rke t ing Corporation has a monopoly over the export of gum arabic. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom abroad in respect of invisibles must be surrendered to au thor ized banks and are subject to the general prescription of currency requ iremen ts. Travelers en ter ing the Sudan may br ing in LSd 10 in Sudanese currency and any amount in notes and coins of other coun tr ies per- mitted by their regulations to be taken out of those coun tr ies; pilgrims, however, are not per- mitted to import Sudanese banknotes. Capital Under the Organization and Promotion of Indus tr ial Inves tment Act of 1967, wh ich superseded an earlier law for the encouragement of foreign investment, incoming foreign capital for indu s t r ial investment may be registered and thus may receive, among other advantages, a guarantee for repatriation of the original capital SUDAN and profits thereon. Emigrants of Sudanese na t iona l i ty may on departure transfer up to the equ iva lent of LSd 1,500 to their new country. Upon em igra t ion from the Sudan, resident for- eigners may transfer up to the equivalent of LSd 2,500. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell gold coins in the Sudan for numismatic purposes. Sub- ject to cer ta in conditions, residents may also pur- chase, hold, and sell in the Sudan domestically produced gold. With these exceptions, residents other th an the mone tary authorities and author- ized indus t r ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Bank of Sudan; such licenses are not no rm a l ly granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authori- ties and indus t r ial users. Some newly mined gold is exported for processing and then reimported. Changes during 1969 February 26. The Banking Regulation, 1968 amended the Bank of Sudan Act, 1959. At least 75 per cent of the capital stock of any foreign bank operating in the Sudan was henceforth re- quired to be held by Sudanese interests. March 1. Export duties on cotton were raised. March 10. The swing credit under the bilateral payments agreement with the United Arab Republic was increased by LSd 1 million for a period of three months. April 7. Commercial banks were no longer perm i t ted to finance imports of certain less essen- tial goods, mostly luxu ry consumer goods. April 7. The swing credits under the bilateral payments agreements with Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, and Poland were temporarily (for a period of six months, beginning immediately) increased by 50 per cent. June 11. The swing credit under the bilateral paymen ts agreement with Eastern Germany was raised by 50 per cent for a period of six months, starting immediately. 451 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SUDAN July 1. The import surcharge was raised from 10 per cent to 15 per cent of the c.i.f. value. Selective increases in import duties and excise taxes also went in to effect. August. S ta r t ing in this mon th, mon th ly reviews were unde r taken of the amount of imports to be permitted under the foreign exchange budget. The mon th ly quotas varied between LSd 4 million and LSd 3 million a month (exc lud ing imports from Ind ia and the United A rab Repub l ic). September 23. The Bank of Sudan notified authorized dealers that w i th effect from Octo- ber 1 all import licenses and registration fo rms for imports should be subm i t ted to the Exchange Control for frank ing. October 1. Foreign exchange allocations for leave travel abroad were suspended, except for travel to the United Arab Republic. October. Two state t rad ing corporations were set up to take over the import of ju te manufac- tures, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, sugar, fertiliz- ers, and insecticides. They would also hand le imports of vehicles, tractors, and spare parts for the public sector. The import of coffee was to be returned to private traders. November 1. The Gum Marketing Corporation commenced operations. It was given a monopoly over exports of gum arabic. November 2. All cotton exported between this date and February 28, 1970 became entitled to a bonus, provided that the foreign exchange pro- ceeds were received in the Sudan w i th in 30 days of shipment. It was announced that with effect f rom March 1, 1970 the existing rates of cotton export du ty would be increased by an amount equal to the bonus. November 75. Cotton sales contracts were required to be in accord with a un i fo rm cotton contract prescribed by the Exchange Control. Authorized dealers were not permitted to register contracts in any other form. December 30. The exchange rate for foreign currency needed for travel abroad (excluding travel for educational or business purposes, medi- cal treatment, and public sector official duties) was changed to LSd 1 = US$2.40 as a result of the application of a 19.65 per cent surcharge to the par value (LSd 0.1607 per <£ stg. 1 and equivalent amounts for other currencies). 452 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.471230 gram of fine gold per Surinam Guilder or Sur. f. 1.88585 = US$1. The official rates are Sur. f. 1.87 buying, and Sur. f. 1.90 selling, per US$1. The rates for other currencies are based on the quotations for the U.S. dollar in terms of those currencies. Administration of Control Exchange licenses, where required, are issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. The commercial banks have authority to provide for- eign exchange for certain current transactions. Prescription of Currency Settlements must, in general, be made in con- vertible currencies;x payments to and from the Netherlands Antilles may also be made in Neth- erlands Antilles guilders or Surinam guilders. Payments to and from the U.S.S.R. must be made through bilateral accounts in Netherlands guilders kept with authorized banks in the Neth- erlands. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may freely open and hold ac- counts in foreign currency with domestic banks. Nonresidents other than banks may freely open accounts in Surinam guilders with domestic banks; permitted debits and credits are subject in certain cases to a specific or general license. Imports and Import Payments Import licenses are required for all imports. Imports of a few commodities are prohibited from all sources for protective reasons. Some commodities are subject to import quotas; all other imports are licensed freely. The import license serves as a payment license, exchange 1 In the Surinam regulations, these are listed as Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, East Caribbean dollars, French francs, Guyana dollars, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, Trinidad and Tobago dollars, and U.S. dollars. being made available upon presentation of the license. Payments for Invisibles Payments for most invisibles require individual licenses. The commercial banks have authority to provide foreign exchange up to Sur. f. 100 an item a month on account of certain services (advertising expenses, bank charges, legal fees, membership dues, copy and patent rights, etc.); up to Sur. f. 300 a year from each remittor in respect of gifts, subject to a limit of Sur. f. 300 a year on any beneficiary's receipt of gifts from Surinam residents; and up to Sur. f. 450-600 a month for the support of the remittor's own family in the Netherlands Antilles or the Nether- lands (family remittances up to the same amounts to other countries require a license, which is granted upon application). The basic exchange allowance to residents for travel is Sur. f. 500-2,000 a person for each trip, the amount depending on the destination; the author- ized bank must enter on the travel ticket the amount of foreign exchange sold and the date, the purchase of travel exchange not being permitted until three days before departure. Travelers may take out a maximum of Sur. f. 100 in Surinam currency. Payments due as interest on loans and as net income from other investments, and payments of moderate amounts for amortization of loans or depreciation of direct investments, may be made if an application supported by an auditor's report is duly presented to the Foreign Exchange Con- trol Board for verification. Exports and Export Proceeds Except for gold, exports of local products do not require licenses, provided that the exporter undertakes to surrender the proceeds within six months to an authorized bank. A certain type of local timber used in the manufacture of plywood and particle board may be exported only in spe- cial circumstances. All re-exports and barter exports require a license. 453 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SURINAM Proceeds from Invisibles Foreign exchange receipts from invisibles must be surrendered to an au tho r ized bank. Travelers may br ing in foreign currency w i thout l im i t, but not more than Sur. f. 100 in domestic cu r rency; resident travelers must surrender any foreign cur- rency in excess of the equ iva lent of Sur. f. 500. Capital A declaration of the Foreign Exchange Control Board in 1960 provides for the t rans fer abroad of capital proceeds from the sale to residents or the liquidation of fu l ly or pa r t ly foreign-owned companies or other forms of en te rp r ise. It also provides for the transfer of profits. An Invest- ment Law passed on February 3, 1960 provides for add i t ional incentives to private foreign invest- ment in Sur inam. Taxable earnings (d iv idend s) must be trans- ferred w i th in a period of three years; otherwise, they become part of the firm's wo rk ing capital and may only be t ran s fe r red in annu al quo tas of 20 per cent. Licenses are gran ted on app l ica t ion for trans- fers abroad from a deceased's estate, up to a m a x im um of Sur. f. 25,000. For estates of more than Sur. f. 25,000 f u r t h er annual t rans fe rs above the m a x im um of Sur. f. 25,000 are permitted so as to spread them over a period not exceeding ten years. The repatriation of personal assets be long ing to depa r t ing persons, inc lud ing emi- gran ts, is pe rm i t ted up to specified amoun ts. Subject to ce r ta in requ iremen ts, residents may pu rcha se in spec if ied coun t r ies Sur inam corporate shares th at have been designated as negotiable by the Foreign Exchange Control Board. Transfers for inv e s tm ent in fore ign securities or real estate by res iden ts are not permitted, although excep- tions may be made for direct investments abroad when it is considered th at Sur inam interests will bene f i t. Gold Res iden ts may hold and acquire gold coins in Su r inam for num i sm a t ic and inves tment purposes; au tho r ized banks may f ree ly negotiate gold coins among themselves and w i th other residents. Resi- den ts o ther th an the mone tary authorities, produ- cers of gold, and au thor ized indus tr ial users are not allowed w i t h o ut special permission to hold or acqu i re gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licen- ses issued by the Foreign Exchange Control Board; such licenses are not normally granted except for impor ts and exports of coins by au tho r ized banks, and for imports and exports by or on b eh a lf of the mone tary au thor i t ies, produ- cers of gold, and indu s t r i al users. Changes during 1969 No s ign i f icant changes took place du r ing 1969. 454 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWAZILAND ' Exchange System Swaziland's currency is the South African Rand, the par value of which is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand or R 1 = US$1.40. Exchange rates are based on South Africa's fixed rates for sterling against rand and the London ma rket rates for sterling against other currencies. Swaziland operates exchange control regula- tions similar to those of South Afr ica, except with regard to transactions within the Sterling Area, of which Swaziland is a member.2 In principle, pay- ments for current transactions, whether w i th in or outside the Sterling Area, wh i le subject to control, are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital w i th in the Sterling Area generally are permitted but require the approval of the Swazi exchange 1 Swaziland became a member of the International Monetary Fund on September 22, 1969. 2 For purposes of control over transactions in securi- ties, residents of Swaziland are not regarded as residents of South Afr ica. control authorities, while such transfers to desti- nations outside the Sterling Area are severely restricted. Inward capital transfers from sources outside the Sterling Area require exchange con- trol approval, but cer ta in types of such transfers are free ly permitted by open general licenses. Swaziland is a member of the Southern African Customs Union by v i r tue of the Customs Union Agreement of 1910.3 It operates its own import licensing system, based on the South Afr ican reg- u la t ions. Changes during 1969 December 22. The Fund noted that the South A f r ican rand is the currency of Swaziland, and that the par value of the South African rand, as established on February 14, 1961, is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per rand. 3 A revised Customs Union Agreement was signed on December 11, 1969, to come into force on March 1, 1970. 455 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN Exchange System The par value is 0.171783 gram of fine gold per Swedish Krona or SKr 5.17321 = US$1. The Sveriges R iksbank is ready to carry out transactions in U.S. dollars with authorized ("exchange") banks at the official limits of SKr 5.1350 buying, and SKr 5.2125 selling, per US$1. The rate for the U.S. dollar fluctuates in the exchange ma rket between these limits. Practically all exchange transactions must be carried out by or through authorized banks. For the guidance of authorized banks and w i thout any comm i tment on its part, the R iksbank has informed the banks of limit rates for 13 curren- cies,1 based upon the above limits for the U.S. dollar and the limits in force in the country of the other currency concerned. In transactions in these currencies with the public, the authorized banks apply buy ing and selling rates, the average of which must lie w i th in the established limits. The difference between the buy ing and selling rates applied by authorized banks may not exceed that prescribed by the Riksbank for each of the currencies in question. Authorized banks may buy from and sell to other authorized banks any foreign currency on a spot basis against another foreign currency or Swedish kronor. Also, they may purchase, spot, from foreign banks and other nonresidents for- eign currencies against any foreign currency or Swedish kronor credited to a Regular Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). They may sell, spot, to foreign banks and other nonresidents foreign currencies against any other foreign currency or Swedish kronor debited to a Regular Account. Authorized banks may conclude with residents other than banks forward exchange transactions covering current payments and authorized pay- ments for periods not exceeding (1) 24 months in respect of receipts for exports, freight, and charter services, (2) 12 months in respect of payments for imports, freight, and charter serv- ices, and (3) 6 months in respect of other receipts and payments. Authorized banks may conclude fo rwa rd transactions for a period not exceeding 12 months with other authorized banks, or, under certain conditions, with foreign banks. Such transac t ions between banks may, however, be for periods exceeding 12 months if made in cover of forward transactions with resi- dents. Forward market rates are left to the inter- play of market forces. Sweden accepted the obligations of Arti- cle VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agree- ment, as from February 15, 1961. Administration of Control Exchange controls are administered by the Sveriges R iksbank through its Exchange Control Board.2 The Board's decisions may be appealed to the Board of Directors of the Riksbank. Authorized banks and some other authorized agencies implement the exchange control regula- tions. All current payments are exempt from exchange control, provided that they are made through the intermediary of an authorized bank in accordance w i th the currency prescriptions issued by the R iksbank. The authorized banks have been granted general licenses giving them power to approve various payments that are still subject to exchange control. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Board of Trade, except those for foods tuffs, which are issued by the Na t ional Agri- cultural Marke t ing Board. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of Eastern Germany, with which there is a privately concluded com- pensation agreement, must in most cases be made by crediting kronor to a Special Account related 1 These currencies are Aus tr ian schillings, Belgian francs, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, Finnish ma rkkaa, French francs, Icelandic k r ónu r, I ta l ian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, and Swiss francs. 2 The Exchange Control Board has seven members. Four of them and their alternates are appointed by the Gove rnmen t; the other members and their alternates are appointed by the Board of Directors of the Sveriges Riksbank. 456 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution to that country. Receipts from Eastern Germany may be accepted in any convertible currency or in kroner through the Special Account of that country or through any Regular Account. Paymen ts to resi- dents of other countries may be made in any for- eign currency or by crediting kronor to any non- resident account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, be low). Receipts from other countries may be accepted in any foreign currency or in Swedish kronor debited to any Regular Account. Nonresident Accounts There are two main types of nonresident accounts held in Swedish k ronor w i th au thor ized banks in Sweden: Regular Accounts and Restric- ted Accounts. Other nonresident accounts are Foreign Exchange Accounts and Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden. Regular Accounts may be held by residents of all countries. Regular Accounts may be credited with transfers from other Regular Accounts, with authorized payments to countries other than East- ern Germany by residents of Sweden, and with sales of any foreign currency. They may be debited for transfers to any other Regular Account and for authorized payments to residents of Sweden, and they may be exchanged in to any foreign currency. The crediting of Regular Accounts with proceeds from sales of foreign currencies or w i th transfers from other Regular Accounts may not result in the creation of abnormal balances. Restricted Accounts are held ma in ly by per- sons who had been residents of Sweden but who became nonresidents a f ter emigrating from that country. The accounts may be credited with interest accrued to, and earnings from, assets in Sweden, proceeds from sales of assets in Sweden, owned by account holders, and funds transferred from abroad. Balances in Restricted Accounts may be used for payments in Sweden for mainte- nance expenses of the account holder and his fam i ly; minor merchandise purchases; taxes and other official charges; and expenses related to the administration and maintenance of the account holder's assets in Sweden; purchases of Swedish bonds denominated solely in Swedish kronor and of real estate; and gifts to, and the support of, persons domiciled in Sweden. SWEDEN Foreign Exchange Accounts 3 are held in for- eign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments in foreign currencies due to the account holder and with accrued inter- est. Balances on such accounts may be used for mak ing authorized payments in foreign currencies to a resident. A Foreign Exchange Account may also be credited with transfers f rom abroad of fore ign currencies, or transfers from Regu lar Accounts or f rom other Foreign Exchange Accounts. A Foreign Exchange Account may be debited for transfers to any nonresident account. Balances on Foreign Exchange Accounts may be sold to an authorized bank against any other for- eign currency or Swedish kronor. Kronor Accounts for Nonresidents Domiciled in Sweden may be maintained by banks and centers of agricultural credit associations. These accounts may be credited with payments in Sweden in favor of an account holder and w i th accrued interest; they may be used for w i thd raw- als in kronor in Sweden. imports and import Payments All imports are prohibited when originating in or shipped f rom Rhodesia. With the main excep- t ion of a few agr icu l tural and fishery products, practically all goods are free from quantitative restriction and import licensing when imported from countries other than (1) Japan, the Bonin Islands, the Ryukyu Islands, and certain other Pacific islands under U.S. control, and (2) Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslo- vakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Mongolia, Poland, Rumania, the U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. Most imports from countries in the second group, except Eastern Germany, are also liberalized. All imports from Japan require licenses; these are in principle issued freely, except for a few specified commodities. Imports from certain countries of specified textiles and clothing are subject to specific license arrangements. Tech- nically, the exceptions to the liberalization regime are governed by "negative" lists. Imports not 3 Residents may also ma in ta in Foreign Exchange Accounts in foreign currencies. Such accounts may be credited w i th authorized receipts in foreign currencies and debited for authorized paymen ts in fore ign curren- cies. 457 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN covered by the liberalization measures require individual licenses, some of which are granted in accordance with bilateral trade arrangements. Paymen ts for imports, inc lud ing no rmal advance paymen ts, may, as cu r rent paymen ts, be made w i thout perm iss ion through au tho r ized banks and w i thout the fo rm a l i ty of p resen t ing an impo rt license. If the cond i t ions specified for cur- rent paymen ts (see section on Paymen ts for Invisibles, below) are not met, an exchange con- trol perm it is requ ired. Importers are perm i t ted to utilize foreign commercial credits, provided that these do not exceed wh at is regarded as cus- tomary in the trade. Payments for Invisibles The exchange control regulations de f ine and list those categories of paymen ts abroad wh ich are considered as current payments. Persons domi- ciled in Sweden may make such payments w i thout restriction in favor of persons domiciled abroad. The payments mu st be made through authorized banks in order to ensure that capital paymen ts are not made in the guise of cu r rent payments. Pay- men ts not exceed ing the equ iv a l ent of SKr 100 that are made abroad for any purpose do not have to be verified by authorized banks. For tou r i sm, rec rea t ional trave l, or s tudy abroad, res iden ts may acqu i re and take out f ree ly up to SKr 6,000 a t r ip in Swedish and fo re ign banknotes and coins and other means of pay- men t; app l ica t ions for add i t ional amoun ts mu st be submitted to the Riksbank and are given liberal t rea tmen t. Au thor ized banks and o ther au thor ized agencies may allocate to res iden ts, w i thout res tr ic t ion, exchange for business travel abroad. Nonres iden ts leav ing Sweden may export f ree ly Swedish and fo re ign bankno tes and other means of payment which they brought into, or du ly acquired in, the coun t ry. No traveler may, how- ever, w i thout specific permission take out of Sweden more than SKr 6,000 in Swedish bank- notes and coins. Exports and Exports Proceeds All exports except ships, scrap metals, and arms are exempt from license if payment is to be 458 received in con fo rm i ty w i th the general regula- t ions (see section on Prescription of Currency, above ); however, all exports to Rhodesia are proh ib i ted and all exports to Eastern Ge rmany requ i re licenses. Proceeds from exports of goods do not have to be surrendered; they may be kept in a non in te res t -bea r ing fore ign currency account w i th a Swedish au thor ized bank and used by the ho lder to make au thor ized paymen ts abroad, or they may be sold to an au thor ized bank against Swedish kronor. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts f rom invisibles are subject to the same t r e a tm ent as those f rom exports (see sec- t ion on Exports and Export Proceeds, above ). Each person en te r ing Sweden may b r ing in up to SKr 6,000 in Swedish bankno tes and coins, and u n l im i t ed amoun ts of other means of pay- m en t. Capital Direct inves tment abroad by Swedish residents requ ires i n d i v i d u al au tho r iza t ion, which for i n d u s t r i a l i z ed coun tr ies norma l ly is gran ted on ly if the inv e s tm ent is regarded as clearly to the b en e f it of the Swedish fore ign exchange position and wh ich may be conditional on a substantial p a rt be ing f inanced abroad at med ium term (at least five yea r s ). Residents may, on application, t r a n s f er cap i tal abroad to purchase, for recrea- t ional purposes, real estate valued at no more t h an SKr 75,000, sub ject to ce r ta in l im i ta t ions rega rd ing the cost of a lot and the time allowed for bu i ld ing on it. A Swedish resident when emi- g ra t ing is, sub ject to ve r i f ica t ion by the R iksbank, p e rm i t t ed to t ran s fer up to SKr 100,000; a f ter one calendar year (beyond the year of emigra- t i o n ), he w i ll no rma l ly be perm i t ted to t rans fer the rema inder of his assets up to a l im it (includ- ing the in i t ial allocation) of SKr 1 million. Per- mission for transfers in excess of that limit is given or refused according to the mer i ts of the application. Transfers on account of inheritances that are due to nonresidents are permitted. Residents are permitted to accept capital receipts f rom abroad on account of life, pension, and a n n u i ty contracts; contractual amortization of the ir inves tmen ts; the sale of foreign securities, ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution real estate abroad, and personal property held by them abroad; and g if ts and inheritances. Resi- dents may accept other kinds of capital receipts from abroad only upon approval f rom the Riks- bank. Residents who wish to receive loans or credits other than normal suppliers' credit from nonresi- dents must receive au thor iza t ion to do so; each case is considered on its merits, but in principle borrowing abroad to finance economic activity in Sweden is not curren t ly authorized. The Riks- bank permits exporters, however, to cover the ir normal suppliers' credits through foreign borrow- ing. Swedish importers also can be granted per- mission to take up cred it abroad to finance con- templated imports. In this context, authorized banks are upon application permitted to extend to the foreign counterpart of a Swedish exporter or importer credit intended to finance cer ta in specified import and export transactions, and to refinance such credit th rough foreign borrow ing in a corresponding amoun t. Permission for the financing of the afore-mentioned export and import transactions requires that the credits con- form to normal commercial practice. Foreign- owned companies in Sweden usually are permit- ted to borrow f rom the parent companies. Permission is needed for the issuance of bonds and shares in Sweden by nonresidents; bond issues in favor of other Scandinavian countries have been admitted when the state of the Swedish capital ma rket was considered to allow them. Foreign direct investments in Sweden requ ire authorization, wh ich normally is given. L iqu ida- tion of such investments and the transfer of pro- ceeds, inc lud ing appreciation, requ ire authoriza- tion, wh ich always is given. Inves tment by nonresidents in Swedish real estate requires approval according to regulations other than exchange control regulations. Residents do not need authorization to sell for- eign securities to nonresidents. The purchase of listed, as well as unlisted, foreign securities by residents f rom nonresidents requires au tho r iza- tion. As a rule, such au thor iza t ion is not g ran ted. However, authorized banks and stockbrokers may by v i r tue of a general license purchase from non- residents, on behalf of residents, listed foreign securities and listed Swedish securities denomi- SWEDEN nated in foreign currencies with the proceeds f rom sales to nonresidents of Swedish-held securi- ties denom ina ted in foreign currencies, provided that the purchase does not include certificates or shares issued by investment companies or invest- ment f u n ds (m u t u al f u n d s) and is made within six mon ths of the corresponding sale. Residents may w i thout au thor iza t ion buy foreign securities and Swedish securities denominated in foreign currenc ies from other residents. Residents may, subject to individual license, be permitted to purchase abroad listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor, provided that an a f f id av it can be produced showing either ( 1) th at at no t ime since Janua ry 1, 1959 have the securities been owned by a person domiciled in Sweden, or (2) that the securities have been acqu ired w i th the permission of the Swedish exchange authorities from a person domiciled in Sweden. The authorized banks and stockbrokers may, by v i r tue of a general license, handle pur- chases by nonres iden ts of listed Swedish securities expressed in Swedish kronor when payment is to be made in the form of other similar securities (sw i tches ), provided that ( 1) the foreign seller and buyer is the same person in each case; (2) the afore-mentioned aff idav it requirements are me t; (3) foreign holdings of bonds are not ex- changed for shares; and (4) not more than two weeks pass between the date of the purchase from and the date of the sale to the foreign party. The export of securities owned by nonresidents other than Swedish emigrants is not restricted. Gold Gold in any form may be held, purchased, and sold w i th in Sweden. Imports and exports of gold and gold alloys requ ire licenses issued by the Riksbank; the types of gold affec ted are unmanu- fac tu red gold, most types of sem imanufac tured gold, and gold coins (except coins imported by or on beha lf of collectors or collections). Import licenses are normally granted to jewelers, dental laboratories, and users of gold for indus tr ial and scientific purposes, as well as to persons and firms importing for resale to these categories of users. As a general rule, no licenses are issued for the import of gold to be held on private account. Commercial imports and exports of articles 459 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN con ta in ing gold, such as jewe lry, may be made f ree ly w i thout a license. The same applies to imports and exports of gold coins of n um i sm a t ic value and in tended for collectors or collections. Changes during 1969 January 1. A value-added tax was in t roduced. It replaced the turnover tax and was levied at the same rate as the latter, i.e., 11.11 per cent. March 10. Banks were placed under a legal obligation to meet specified l iqu id i ty ratios. The Riksbank s t ipu la ted that they could not count as l iqu id i ty net foreign cu r rency c la ims on fore ign banks in excess of 11/2 per cent of total l iab i l i t ies (previously 50 per cent of total net fo re ign claims). April 1. The R iksbank, when g ran t ing permis- sions to importers to take up foreign credit in respect of import transac t ions, stipulated that repayment of the credit at any date other than that prescribed in the unde r ly ing contract requ ired a new au thor iza t ion by the R iksbank. April 16. Agreement was reached w i th the Republic of Korea on a l im i ta t ion of exports to Sweden of specified textiles and garmen ts. July 1. Royal Ordinance No. 274 of May 23, 1969 concerning an t idump ing and countervailing duties went into effect. September 5. The Riksbank announced cer- tain measures, most of which became effective on September 11 (see be low). In this context the Riksbank stated that it would seek to l im it approvals for outward direct investment to approximately the 1968 level and that annual approvals of repurchases of Swedish securities held abroad would also be held to about the 1968 level. September 11. Banks required the approval of the Riksbank in each individual case to pay inter- est on credit balances in resident-held foreign currency accounts. September 11. The provisions governing authorized banks' cover for foreign currency accounts held with them were revised. September 11. The exchange control definition of current payments was modified. Life insurance 460 p rem iums ceased to be considered cu r rent pay- men ts when the sum of the prem ium and any other life insurance premiums that the insured had to pay to foreign countries exceeded SKr 1,000 in any one calendar year, irrespective of the con- tract dates. September 11. Applications to make direct inves tmen ts in indus tr ial countries henceforth were rejected when they were not clearly of impor tance to the Swedish fore ign exchange posi- t ion. In borderline cases, the applicant was di- rected to finance the inves tment in question through med ium - te rm borrowing abroad on con- d i t ions approved by the R ik sbank. The approval of inves tmen ts deemed clearly advantageous from a foreign exchange point of view but involving considerable amoun ts could also be made condi- t ional on foreign financing. Direct inves tmen ts in developing coun tr ies that are the ma in recipients of Swedish deve lopment aid were given preferen- t i al t r e a tm en t. Prev ious ly, a ll bona f ide applica- t ions for d i rect i n v e s tm e nt abroad were approved. September 11. Residents were no longer per- m i t ted upon application (but subject to certain cond i t ions) to purchase abroad listed Swedish securities denom ina ted in Swedish kronor. Hence- fo r th, licenses were limited to weekly ceilings. Preference was given to applications by private ind iv idua l s. September 11. An ind iv idual authorization from the R iksbank was required for the transfer abroad by emigrants of any assets in excess of the amount of SKr 100,000 permitted upon emi- gration and for all exports of securities by emi- grants. Only in exceptional circumstances could the total allocations granted to any one applicant exceed SKr 1 million. Where Swedish residents had emigrated to engage abroad in activities likely to be of limited dura t ion, applications for addi- tional transfers in excess of the SKr 100,000 granted upon emigration were henceforth consid- ered on the ir merits and in a restrictive manner. Previously, all assets in excess of the SKr 100,000 allowance could normally be exported after one ca lendar year. September 11. The authority of the commer- cial banks to approve payments abroad in respect of prem iums for life, annu i ty, and/or endowment insurance was limited to SKr 1,000 a person for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWEDEN each calendar year. Previously, there was no l im it on this approval au thor i ty for life insurance but a limit of SKr 10,000 a person a calendar year was applied for the other types of insurance men- tioned, provided that the prem ium was of a recurrent na tu re and payable dur ing a period of at least three years from the date of the insurance contract. Payments in excess of the stipulated limit henceforth required individual approval by the R iksbank. Such permission was restrictively given in respect of prem iums on new annuity or endowment insurance contracts. Premiums were normally approved on bona fide annuity and endowment insurance contracts entered into in conform i ty with the rules formerly applied and for wh ich p rem iums had been paid in the past. September 15. Banks could no longer pay interest on repatriated export proceeds held on foreign currency accounts in Sweden. 461 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND ' Exchange Rate System The gold con tent of the Swiss Franc is estab- lished at 63/310 ( = 0.20322 . . .) gram of fine gold. The Swiss Na t ional Bank m a in t a ins the U.S. do l lar rate in a free ma rket between limits of Sw F 4.295 buying, and Sw F 4.45 selling, per US$1. The free market rate on December 31, 1969 was Sw F 4.3185 per US$1. Market rates for other currencies va ry between limits which result f rom comb in ing the official l im i ts for the U.S. dollar ma in ta ined by Switzerland and such l im i ts in force in the coun t ry of the other cur- rency concerned .2 Exchange is controlled in respect of most t ransac t ions w i th eight coun t r ies w i th wh i ch Switzerland has b i la teral agreements or in respect of wh ich Switzerland has enacted au tonomous regulations. Bilateral agreements cover Sw i tzer land's paymen ts w i th seven coun- tries or monetary areas;3 Switzerland also con- trols its paymen ts w i th one other.4 In accordance w i th the provisions of several of these agree- men ts, o f f ic ial rates are applied to t ransac t ions covered by the agreements. This doma in of regu- lated settlements is known as the sector of con- trolled paymen ts. All settlements outside this sector ( i n c l u d i ng those w i th a ll other coun t r ie s ), as well as certain se t t lemen ts invo lv ing Egyptian pounds wh ich represent compensa t ion for na t ion- a l iza t ion of Swiss property in the United Arab Repub l ic, may be made f ree ly at free m a rk et rates. Foreign bankno tes are negotiated f ree ly in Sw i tze r land at ra tes de te rm ined by the in te rp lay of supply and demand. Exchange Control Territory For all purposes of impor t, export, and pay- men ts con tro l, the P r inc ipa l i ty of Liechtenstein is 1 Switzerland is not a member of the In te rna t ional Monetary Fund. 2 The above-men t ioned upper and lower l im i ts for the U.S. dollar rate have been fixed in accordance w i th the European Mon e t a ry Ag reement ( E M A ), of wh ich Switzerland is a member. Since all o ther member coun- tries of the EMA have done l ikew ise, corresponding upper and lower l im i ts are also operative in respect of the rates for the Swiss f ranc in te rms of the other EMA currenc ies. 3 Bulgaria, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, H u n g a r y, Po land, Rum an i a, and Un i ted A rab Repub l ic. 4 Eas tern G e rm a n y, i n c l u d i ng East B e r l i n. 462 included in the Swiss customs territory for the du ra t ion of the treaty of March 29, 1923 between Switzerland and the Pr inc ipa l i ty of Liechtenstein concerning the un ion of the Princi- p a l i ty of L iech tens te in with the Swiss customs te r r i to ry .5 Administration of Control The au tho r i ty to impose measures for the con- trol of imports, exports, and paymen ts is vested in the Swiss Federal Council acting, as a rule, on the proposals of the Federal Department of Pub l ic Economy or the Federal Political Depart- men t. The Swiss National Bank is the executive au tho r i ty in ma t te rs of cu r rency, and the Swiss Compensation Office, together w i th the author- ized bank s, is en t rus ted w i th the operative pa rt of paymen ts control. Prescription of Currency The cu r rency and m ann er of settlement on account of merchand ise transac t ions and invisi- bles in the sector of controlled payments (see section on Exchange Ra te System, above) are prescribed in accordance with the provisions of the re levant paymen ts agreements and /or by the Swiss regu la t ion s. Settlements w i th countries in th is sector are made in Swiss f rancs; however, ce r ta in se t t lemen ts w i th the Un i ted A rab Repub- lic may be made in Egyptian pounds through spe- cial accounts ma in ta ined by the Swiss Compensa- tion Office at the Central Bank of Egypt, and certain se t t lemen ts with Cuba must be made in Swiss francs to the debit or credit of a special account at the Swiss National Bank. Outside the sector of controlled payments, certain settlements w i th Turkey are subject to special regulations. In all other cases, settlements are not subject to reg- u l a t ions invo lv ing prescription of currency. Nonresident Accounts Nonres ident accounts related to the sector of controlled paymen ts may be grouped as follows: ( 1 ) accounts related to Bulgaria, Cuba, Czecho- r> For purposes of capital control, however, cer ta in ju r id ical persons or companies domiciled in the Princi- pa l i ty of L iech tens te in are considered as nonresidents. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Slovakia, Hunga ry, Poland, and Ruman ia, which are centralized with the Swiss National Bank, and (2) the "decentralized" accounts, comprising those wh ich may be held with the Swiss National Bank and w i th authorized banks in Switzerland. The accounts of the second group are of two k ind s: the accounts of Eastern Germany, which are transferab le only to other accounts of the same nationality, and the accounts of the United Arab Republic, which are subject to special treat- ment. Nonresident accounts concerned with transac- tions outside the sector of controlled payments— ma in ly those related to countries not listed above —may be t rans fe r red freely among themselves. Imports and import Payments All imports f rom Rhodesia require a license; licenses are not granted in excess of the average volume of imports for 1964, 1965, and 1966. With a few exceptions, imports into Switzerland from other countries may be made freely. The only commodities subject to license irrespective of the ir origin are certain agricultural products. Import permits for goods still under license are, in general, granted freely, but global quotas are established for certain agr icu l tural products. Imports of textiles f rom specified countries are subject to price surve i l lance or price certification. Settlements are made automatically for author- ized imports from countries to which the Swiss control regulations are applicable, i.e., the sector of controlled payments. Payments for imports from all other countries may be made freely through the f ree marke t. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles may be made freely; however, payments to Eastern Germany (includ- ing East Be r l in) and countries with which Swit- zerland has bilateral payments agreements are controlled.6 The export of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Travelers may not take out more than Sw F 10 in Swiss silver coins that are legal tender. 6 Payments to Cuba are controlled only insofar as they relate to the Cuban-Swiss agreement on indemn i f ica t ion for nationalized property. SWITZERLAND Exports and Export Proceeds The export ( inc lud ing re-export) of some goods is subject to export control through indi- v idual licenses. This export licensing system is operated in pa rt with the assistance of appropri- ate trade organizations. Export proceeds received th rough the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss currency in observance of the existing regulations. Other export proceeds are freely disposable.7 Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from invisibles received through the sector of controlled payments are converted into Swiss francs in observance of the existing regula- tions. Proceeds received in convertible currencies are freely disposable. The import of Swiss and foreign banknotes is free. Capital Transfers of capital from countries in the sector of controlled payments require licenses if they are made through the sector of controlled paymen ts; t rans fe rs of capital to such countries do not requ i re licenses. Transfers of capital to and f rom other countries may be made freely, w i th the exception of certain outgoing transfers exceeding Sw F 10 million each, which require permission; these include foreign issues in Swit- ze r land of bonds denominated in Swiss francs and direct participations by Swiss banks in Euro-bond issues. Purchases of real estate in Switzerland by or on behalf of persons of foreign nationality who. are domiciled abroad require approval by the can ton where the property is situated. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any fo rm at home or abroad; domestic 7 In February 1970 the Federal Council submitted to the Federal Chambers a d ra ft order providing for the introduction of a temporary export deposit scheme, under which exporters would be required to deposit the local currency equivalent of 5 per cent of the va lue of exports. Shipments valued at Sw F 1,000 or less would be exempt, as would be specified goods, ma in ly agricultural com- modities. The deposits would be noninterest bearing. The Federal Council would decide when and how they were to be released. 463 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SWITZERLAND transactions are not subject to any sales or turn- over tax. There is a free gold market in Zurich. Imports and exports of gold in any form by resi- dents and nonresidents are unrestricted and free of license. No customs duties or other charges are levied on exports of gold. Imports of gold in cer- tain forms are subject to customs du ty (exempt are bars and certain coins) or sales tax (exempt are coins and b a r s ). Import and export licenses are required for commercial imports and exports of certain articles containing gold; these are issued freely. Changes during 1969 January 1. The clearing arrangement with Yugoslavia was terminated. January 15. The implementing ordinance of the federal law on export-risk guarantees was revised and the range of operations eligible for such insurance was widened. February 19. The prohibition on the hoarding of Swiss silver coins that are legal tender was lifted. April 15. The prohibition of imports of dena- tured wheat, rye, and fodder meal was lifted. June 16. Export licenses were no longer re- quired for unworked silver and semimanufac- tured silver. The ban on the export and melting down of silver coins was maintained. July 1. A new law entered into force subjecting banks controlled by foreign interests to a licensing system. The establishment of banks that qua l i fy as being under substantial foreign influence re- quires the approval of the Swiss Federal Banking Commission. The existence of substantial foreign inf luence is to be assumed if foreigners participate in banks in a direct or indirect way with more than 50 per cent of the authorized capital or of the votes, or if they exercise in some other way a dominating influence on banks. Those banks in which at the time of the coming into force of the new law a foreigner or a group of foreigners participated with more than 50 per cent of the authorized capital or of the votes, or on which in some other way a dom ina t ing foreign influence was exercised, were to notify the Swiss Federal Bank ing Commission accordingly within three months. September 1. An agreement with the EEC con- cerning imports and exports of textiles for proc- essing entered into force. September 10. The Federal Council introduced a bill which would provide for the granting of political-risk guarantees to Swiss firms investing in developing countries. The bill was enacted on March 20, 1970. September 10. Exports of watch movements and certain other parts for watches to the Virgin Islands, Guam, and Samoa were permitted. December 8. The Federal Council requested the Federal Chambers to extend from the end of 1970 to the end of 1975 the validity of the fed- eral decisions regarding the purchase of real estate by foreign nationals. 464 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On July 29, 1947, a par value for the Syrian Pound was established by the Syrian Arab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. There are two exchange mar- kets, the official or "export exchange" market and the free or "parallel" market with a fluctuat- ing rate. There are fixed official rates of LS 3.80 buy ing, and LS 3.82 selling, per US$1; official market rates for other currencies are quoted by the Exchange Office on the basis of the fixed rates for the U.S. dollar and the market rates for the currencies concerned in international centers. The free market rates on December 31, 1969 were LS 4.25 buying, and LS 4.27 selling, per US$1. In practice, the free market rate for the U.S. dollar is set by the Commercial Bank of Syria in consultation with the Central Bank. The supply in the official market consists mainly of the proceeds of major exports and of oil royalties and pipeline royalties received by the Government. The official market rate applies to all major expor ts ;1 to imports of essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital equipment for Syrian industries; to invisibles related to trade settled through the official marke t, most remit- tances for study abroad, and remittances for serv- icing government debt; and to capital transactions by the Government. The free market rate applies to all other transactions, including most exports of processed or manufac tured goods, all merchant- ing trade, and imports by parcel post. Moreover, importers with bills overdue for any period of time are usually permitted to purchase exchange in the free market to settle their obligations. All imports are payable through the free ma rket when shipped from Cyprus, the Gulf States, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, or Lebanon, but or ig ina t ing elsewhere. The Commercial Bank of Syria charges a com- 1 Crude petroleum, mineral oils, asphalt, raw and tanned leather, wood, iron and steel scrap, copper scrap, cotton ya rn, wheat, barley, corn m i l l e t, chick-peas, lentils, raw wool, raw cotton, cotton o i l, cottonseed, cotton cake, sorghum, corn, sesame, tobacco, wheat flour, o leag inous g ra ins and f ru i t s, olive oil, peanut oil, linseed oil, sugar, and cer ta in other ag r icu l tu ral products. mission of %0 of 1 per cent on sales or pur- chases of foreign exchange. Administration of Control Policy with regard to imports and exports is determined by the Government through the Min- istry of Economy and Foreign Trade. Under an agreement between the Central Bank of Syria and the Adm in is tra t ive Committee of the Exchange Office, all transactions of the Exchange Office are carried out through the Central Bank. Import licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and exchange licenses for import payments through the official market, invisibles, and capital transactions are issued by the Exchange Office. Authorized commercial banks deal in foreign exchange both in the official and the free market. They open letters of credit or accept bills for collection only with the prior approval of the Exchange Office. At present there is only one authorized bank, the Commercial Bank of Syria. Imports and foreign payments are licensed w i th in the framework of an annual for- eign exchange budget. Prescription of Currency The Exchange Office is empowered to pre- scribe the currencies to be obtained for exports. The current requirement is that proceeds of exports to all countries except those with which the Syrian Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements 2 be obtained in the currency of the country to which the goods are exported if it is an "acceptable" currency,3 or in any other con- vertible currency, at the exporter's choice. Pro- ceeds from exports to certain neighboring coun- tries may be obtained in banknotes issued by the country concerned; these countries are Cyprus, the Gulf States, Iran, Kuw a i t, Southern Yemen, 2 The Syrian Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements with Bulgaria, Ceylon, mainland China, Cuba, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Spain, United Arab Republic, U.S.S.R., and North Viet-Nam. 3 "Acceptable" currencies are those for which the Exchange Office quotes rates: Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Iraqi dinars, Italian lire, Jordan dinars, Lebanese pounds, Netherlands guilders, pounds sterling, Saudi Arabian riyals, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 465 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC Turkey, and the Yemen Arab Republic. Prescrip- tion of currency requ iremen ts are not applied to outgoing payments. All paymen ts to Israel, Rho- desia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts Nonresident accounts in Syrian pounds may be held by nonresidents 4 and may be credited with the proceeds of foreign currencies sold to the authorized bank and with paymen ts for goods. They may be debited to pay for Syr ian exports to the coun try of the account holder or, w i th the prior approval of the Exchange Office, to other countries, and for expenses in the Syrian A rab Republic. Transfers abroad f rom these accounts requ ire the prior approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted freely. Nonres iden ts may also keep accounts in foreign currencies, but only if these accounts result from an in f low of capital. Transfers from these accounts are made f ree ly. Temporary resident accounts may be opened in the name of non-Syrians in neighboring countries who do not reside pe rmanen t ly in the Syrian Arab Republic. imports and import Payments Imports of commodities o r ig ina t ing in Israel, Rhodesia, or South A f r ica are prohibited. Many basic commodities ( inc lud ing green coffee, tea, rice, tobacco, salt, paper, iron and steel, and agri- cultural mach ine ry) are only imported by state trading agencies or, for their own account, by certain other official agencies. Impo r ts of some other commodities are reserved for "unions of industries." Imports are divided into three m a in categories: ( 1) imports prohibited by decree and specified in a Prohibited List, wh ich comprises some 100 tariff items—mostly goods that are produced domestically, inc lud ing some textile products; (2) imports on a Suspended List, which comprises some 280 t a r i ff items of less essential goods which are temporarily not admit- ted either for balance of payments reasons or for protective reasons; and (3) all imports not included in the above two lists and wh ich are 4 Residents are defined as including all physical per- sons of Syrian nationality, irrespective of domicile, and all persons who have been living in the Syrian Arab Republic for more than a year. 466 authorized on their merits. Certain suspended imports may be acquired in paymen ts agreement countries through compensation transactions involving the export of Syrian industrial or min- eral products. V i r tua l ly all imports mu st be made direct from the country of origin, without the in te rmed ia ry of any firm conducting a business established ou ts ide the Syrian A rab Republic; the M in is try of Economy and Foreign Trade has the au tho r i ty, however, to permit cer ta in goods to be imported f rom countries other than the country of or ig in. All commodities that do not appear on a special list cannot be imported from the Fed- eral Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, or the United States unless it is shown that the price is lower and the qua l i ty higher than that of comparable products offered by other suppliers. All perm i t ted imports, except those made by state t rad ing agencies, requ ire ind iv idual import licenses before the placing of orders. The state t r a d i ng agencies may conclude import transac- tions and have the goods shipped before an import license is granted; the license must be obtained, however, before customs clearance. Goods included in the Suspended List may be imported only under certain conditions of domes- tic need, under special ind iv idual license from the M in is t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade, and w i th the prior approval of the Ministry of Indus- try or the Ministry of Supply. Certain imports (not on the Suspended or Prohibited Lists) from Iraq, Jo rdan, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, and the United A rab Republic are not subject to license, in accordance with the Arab Common Market Agreement or the bilateral agreements of the Syrian A rab Republic with some of these coun- tries. These imports include all agricultural com- modities, livestock, and some indus tr ial products. Imports by parcel post of any goods that are neither prohibited nor suspended are permitted w i thout a license, provided that each parcel is valued at LS 250 or less. Retailers, other traders, and end-users may import w i thout a license, with payment through the free market, certain com- modities whose importation is not prohibited or suspended, provided that the goods enter the country as parcel post valued at not over LS 100 and that they do not receive the same commodity more of ten than once a fortnight. Private persons may on the same terms import virtually all com- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution modities whose importation is not prohibited or suspended. There is a tax of 2 per cent on the issue of import licenses, except for government imports and imports of certain essential items, including raw materials, petroleum, and petroleum prod- ucts. In addition, there are the following taxes on imports which are collected by the customs: (1) a statistical tax of 4 per cent, (2) a consumption tax of 4 per cent for all imports for which the ta r i ff rate is more than 1 per cent, (3) a defense tax of 10 per cent of the tar iff, (4) a school tax of 10 per cent of the consumption tax plus 2 per cent of the tar iff, (5) a harbor tax of 3 per cent of the ta r i ff for goods transferred by ships through Syrian harbors (most commodities can be imported only through Syrian harbors), and (6) an ocean tax of 2/10 of 1 per cent of the value of imports for all goods transferred by ship in any harbor, including those of neighboring countries. Exchange licenses are required to make import payments through the official market. Payments for imports may be made by opening letters of credit, t ime drafts, bills for collection, or by cred- iting a nonresident account or a temporary resi- dent account. The importer submits to the Com- mercial Bank of Syria the import license and the pro forma invoice. In the case of import payments subject to the official exchange market, the Com- mercial Bank of Syria submits both documents to the Exchange Office for approval, which is granted or refused according to the availability of exchange. In the case of import paymen ts through the free exchange market, the Exchange Office currently does not require the Commercial Bank to request approval. After approval is granted (where necessary), the Commercial Bank of Syria opens the letters of credit or accepts the bills for collection. Specified imports, mainly essential consumer goods, basic raw materials, and capital goods for Syrian industries may be financed through the official m a r k e t ;r> all others must be financed through the free market. Import licenses prescribe which exchange market must be used. However, the Exchange Office has the SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC authority to prescribe the use of free market exchange even when the import license specifies payment through the official market. Importers w i th overdue bills are currently permitted, subject to approval by the Administrative Committee of the Exchange Office, to purchase exchange in the free ma rket to settle their obligations. For imports financed through the official market, the Exchange Office distinguishes ad hoc between essential and less essential goods; exchange for the former is provided more promptly than for the latter. The issuance of authorizations for the purchase of official market exchange for certain categories of imports is delayed for periods of several months. For imports financed through the free market, exchange is provided with less delay. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to trade effected at the official rate, for servicing government debt, and for most study abroad 6 may be made at the official market rate. Commissions due to nonresident intermediaries are nontransferable and payable in Syrian pounds only. The insur- ance for imports under documentary credit must be effected locally. All other payments for invisi- bles must be made through the free market. Residents traveling abroad may take with them foreign exchange purchased at the free market rate as follows: for travel to Lebanon, the equiv- alent of LS 100 a trip; for travel to other Arab countries and Turkey, the equivalent of £ stg. 50 a trip; and for travel to other countries, the equivalent of <£ stg. 125 a trip. For children under ten years of age, the allowances are 50 per cent of these amounts. Upon departure, residents of Syrian na t iona l i ty must pay an exit tax of LS 11 a person. Fixed allocations at the free market rate also exist for other invisibles, as follows: 60 per cent of the salaries received by for- eign technicians and experts employed in the Syrian Arab Republic; 50 per cent of the salaries of per- sonnel of foreign diplomatic and international mis- sions in the Syrian Arab Republic; up to LS 3,000 a stockholder a year for dividends accruing to nonresidents from Syrian securities; and LS 250 5 All commodities are payable at the free market rate when shipped from Cyprus, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, or the Gulf States, but originating elsewhere. 6 Remittances to students in Lebanon studying non- scientific subjects are made at the free market rate. 467 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC a person a mon th for private donations and chari- ties. In all cases, applications for additional amounts must be submitted for approval to the Exchange Office. Nonresidents leaving the country are permitted to take out foreign exchange and Syrian currency w i th in the l im it of the declaration they have made when entering the Syrian Arab Republic; the amount of Syrian currency taken out may not exceed LS 100. For additional amounts, the approval of the Exchange Office is required. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of wheat, cotton, cottonseed, barley, and their derivatives are nationalized and are made by the Cereals Office or the Cotton Authority. Exports of certain other commodities are also reserved for government agencies, state trading agencies, or specified companies. Exports of a few goods to any country and all exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. Exports of the main export products and of all goods of foreign origin require licenses. For all other exports, licenses are not required. For all private exports, however, a repatriation com- m i tment must be executed in which the exporter undertakes to bring the proceeds to the Syrian Arab Republic and surrender them to the Exchange Office w i th in six months after the date of export. The proceeds of all major exports (see footnote 1) must be surrendered at the official buying rate. The proceeds of other exports must be surrendered by sale at the free ma rket rate. Exports of cotton are subject to an export tax of l2l/2 per cent ad valorem. All exports of agri- cultural products (including cotton) are subject to an ad valorem agricultural tax of 10 per cent. All the above taxes are collected by the customs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from invisibles, including tourism and the local expenditures of oil companies (but not royalties), may be sold in the free market. Non- residents entering the Syrian Arab Republic are permitted to bring in unlimited foreign exchange in any form, provided that they present a wr i t ten statement of the amount upon entry; this state- ment is required only when the traveler intends to take out the foreign exchange he brought in. 468 Nonresidents are permitted to bring in not more than LS 100 in Syrian currency. Capital Imports of capital in the form of foreign exchange are free for private individuals, whether residents or nonresidents, and may be effected through the free market. The export of capital requires the approval of the Exchange Office; if approved, it must be effected through the free market. Special facilities for investment of Arab capital in the Syrian Arab Republic are provided by Legislative Decree No. 348 of December 29, 1969. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold in the Syrian Arab Republic without restriction. The domestic negotiation of gold takes place at free market prices that are in line with world free market prices. Imports and exports of gold are free from import or export licensing. Import payments, however, require the approval of the Exchange Office, which is granted only for imports for in- dustrial use or for re-export. Export proceeds are subject to surrender. Changes during 1969 January 1. Importers receiving an import license specifying payment through the free market no longer required in addition an exchange license. January 1. Additional imports from and exports to countries of the Arab Common Market were free from all restrictions. January 1. Several commodities, including woolen blankets, printing and office machines, home electrical appliances, and record players, were removed from the list of suspended imports. February. The restrictions on foreign pay- ments and on the opening of import letters of credit introduced on July 13, 1967 were termi- nated, as was the screening of import transactions by a special Foreign Exchange Commission. March 13. Export proceeds of almonds and peanu ts had to be surrendered at the official rate. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution March 27. Woolen textiles were removed from the list of suspended imports. June 5. Ordinary portland cement, certain plastic products, and certain types of hats were removed from the list of suspended imports. June 29. Imports by parcel post of goods on the Prohibited List were suspended by Order No. 595. July 2. The exit tax payable by residents leav- ing the country was doubled by Decree-Law No. 145. July 12. Automobile motors, chassis, and bodies and pick-up vehicles were put on the Suspended List by Order No. 620. July 24. Imports of certain cotton fabrics were suspended. August 10. Order No. 685 established that imports by parcel post of any goods that were neither prohibited nor suspended could be made without an import license, provided that they were shipped direct from the country of origin and that the value of the parcel did not exceed LS 250. Most prohibited and suspended goods could be imported by parcel post by private indi- viduals, provided that a parcel's value did not exceed LS 100 and that the consignee did not receive the same type of commodity more fre- quently than once a fortnight. Some of these goods could be imported on the same conditions by traders, craftsmen, and other end-users; sub- ject to import license, however, they could import up to LS 3,000 a shipment. In all cases, pay- ments had to be made through the free marke t. Travelers were permitted to bring in goods for personal use up to LS 250 (LS 100 for travelers arriving from Lebanon). SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC August 10. Circular No. 266 of the Ministry of Economy and Foreign Trade listed a large number of commodities that could be imported from any country. It also provided that other goods could not be imported from the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom, or the United States unless the price was lower than and the quality higher than that of comparable products offered by other suppliers. September 1. The Import-Export Company of the Public Sector (SIMEX) was reorganized and split into four foreign trade organizations: For- eign Trade Organization for Machinery and Equip- ment, Foreign Trade Organization for Chemicals and Foodstuffs, Foreign Trade Organization for Metals and Building Materials, and Textiles For- eign Trade Organization. November 15. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with North Korea. December 17. Decree No. 2804 revised, with effect from January 1, 1970, the structure and functions of the Ministry of Economy and For- eign Trade. December 29. Decree-Law No. 348 provided certain facilities and guarantees for imported Arab capital and capital of Arab emigrants residing abroad, irrespective of whether they had retained their original nationality or adopted that of the host country. Such funds could be placed on time deposit for a m in imum term of three months in a foreign currency account with the Commer- cial Bank of Syria. They could also be invested in transportation, tourism, building, and other serv- ice industries. December 31. A bilateral payments agreement was concluded with North Viet-Nam. 469 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Tanzania Shilling or T Sh 7.14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Tanza- nia shilling and the pound sterling at «£1 = T Sh 17.1429. The Bank of Tanzania deals w i th the Government in sterling at this pa r i ty rate. In transactions w i th authorized banks, the Bank of Tanzania stands ready to issue Tanzan ia shillings in exchange for convertible currencies and to supply such currencies in exchange for Tan- zania shillings; its buy ing and se l l ing rates for sterling in such transactions d i f f er f rom the rate of £1 = T Sh 17.1429 by i/32 and i/16 per cent, respectively. In transactions with the public the authorized banks buy and sell sterling at rates d i f fe r ing f rom the rate of £1 = T Sh 17.1429 by %6 and Vi per cent, respectively. Buy ing and selling rates for o ther currencies are based on the rate for sterling and the rates in the London ma rke t. The Bank of Tanzania deals with the Government and w i th authorized banks in Kenya and Uganda sh i l l ings against Tanzan ia sh i l l ings at par. East A f r i c an shillings, which have ceased to be legal tender, may still be exchanged at par by holders in Tanzan ia at all commercial banks. The authorized banks carry out fo rwa rd exchange contracts w i th importers and exporters. Such contracts for periods exceeding three months requ ire the approval of the Bank of Tan- zan ia. The authorized banks may cover th e ir net fo rwa rd position w i th the Bank of Tanzania. Administration of Control The M in is ter for Finance has delegated the adm in i s t r a t ion of exchange control to the Bank of Tanzan ia. Au tho r i ty for app rov ing no rmal import paymen ts, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Kenya and Uganda is delegated by the Bank of Tanzania to the au thor ized banks. Pay- ments f rom Tanzania to Kenya and Uganda are free of restrictions. On the ma in land, import and export control is administered by the Controller of Imports and 470 Exports in the M in i s t ry of Commerce and Indus- tries. The responsibility for issuing specific import and export licenses rests with the Controller, to whom applications should be submitted by the impo r ter or exporter in Tanzania before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Import applications for some commodities, however, must be submitted through the State Trading Corporation or requ ire the endorsement of ano ther state t rad ing agency. Zanzibar adminis- ters an independent system of foreign trade con- trols; all impor ts and the principal exports are made by state t rad ing agencies (B izan je and the Zanz ibar State Trading Corporation). Prescription of Currency Tanzan ia is a member of the Sterling Area and m a i n t a i ns prescription of currency requirements s im i lar to those of the United Kingdom; all settle- men ts w i th Kenya and Uganda, however, must be effected in Kenya, Uganda, or Tanzan ia shillings. Paymen ts to residents of countries in the Sterling A rea o ther than Kenya and Uganda may be made in Tanzania shillings to the credit of a Ster- l i ng A rea Account in Tanzania or in any other S ter l ing Area c u r r e n c y ;l receipts f rom such coun tr ies must be obtained in Tanzan ia shillings f rom a Sterling Area Account in Tanzania or in any o ther Sterling Area currency. Authorized paymen t s, inc lud ing payments for imports, by residents of Tanzan ia to residents of countries out- side the S te r l ing Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an Ex ternal Account in the Un i ted Kingdom, in Tanzania shillings to the credit of an Ex ternal Account in Tanzania, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds that is appropriate to the coun t ry of residence of the payee. Receipts from coun tr ies outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling f rom an Ex ternal Account in the United K ingdom, in Tan- zan ia shillings f rom an External Account in Tan- 1 W i th the exception that personal rem i t tances to residents of Ind ia and P ak i s t an must be made in the cu r rency of the benef ic iary's coun t ry of residence. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution zania, or in any other specified currency 2 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia. Remittances to South Afr ica are prohibited, with the exception of those for pensions payable by the Government of Tanzania or by the East African Community organizations. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Uganda. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area coun- tries by Tanzanian residents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, and with the pro- ceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Tan- zania of pounds sterling or any other Sterling Area currency (except Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda shillings) by residents of any other coun- try in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda. They may be debited freely for pay- ments for exports to other countries in the Ster- ling Area except Kenya and Uganda and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda to Tanzanian residents, for payments to residents of other countries in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Uganda for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Tanzania, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for withdrawals by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Tanzania. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange con- trol authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Tanzania or elsewhere in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Tanzania of any non-Sterling Area currency from an authorized dealer. Accounts in Tanzania shillings held by resi- dents of countries outside the Sterling Area other 2 The specified currencies are listed as follows: Aus- trian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Cana- dian dollars, Ceylon rupees, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Icelandic k ronu r, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all other Sterling Area currencies other than Kenya shillings, Tanzania shil- lings, and Uganda shillings. TANZANIA than Rhodesia with authorized banks in Tanzania are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by residents of Tanzania, with transfers from other External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers. Provided that the permission of the appropriate exchange con- trol authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Uganda has been obtained, Exter- nal Accounts may also be credited with transfers from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Tanzania or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Uganda are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, bal- ances on Blocked Accounts belonging to emigrants may be used for the purchase in Tanzania of government bonds payable in Tanzania shillings and redeemable not earlier than five years from the date of acquisition; the redemption proceeds are transferable. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export transactions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Tanzania, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Uganda, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports to the mainland from all sources are prohibited for reasons of health or security. Certain other imports are not being licensed. Most imports from Kenya and Uganda are unre- stricted but some require a specific license (goods listed in the Fifth Schedule to the Open General License) and others can only be imported from Kenya and Uganda by the State Trading Corpo- ration and persons acting as agents for the Cor- poration (goods listed in the Second and Third Schedules, respectively). Specific import licenses are required for over 180 commodities or groups of commodities (listed in the Fourth Schedule to the Open General License) from First Schedule countries, i.e., Commonwealth countries (other 471 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA than Kenya and Ug and a ), GATT member coun- tries except Japan, and countries with which trade agreements are in fo r c e ;3 other goods from these countries may be imported w i thout licenses. All imports from other countries, including Japan, require a specific license. All imports to the ma in land from Zanzibar require a specific license when the goods originate outside Zanzi- bar. All imports from South Africa, metropolitan Portugal, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of Japanese goods are not licensed unless they are considered to assist the country's industrial development or are otherwise regarded as bene- ficial. Applications to import specified goods originat- ing outside Kenya and Uganda must be submitted through the State Trading Corporation and these may be imported only by or through that Corpo- ration. All imports into Zanzibar are made by government agencies. Transfer taxes ranging from 7 to 80 per cent of the c.i.f. value are levied on a range of manu- factured goods when imported from and originat- ing in Kenya. For some of these commodities, the tax is applicable also when they are imported from and originate in Uganda. Most imports, irrespective of their origin, are subject to sales tax at 10 per cent, 15 per cent, or 20 per cent of the c.i.f. value plus import duty. When the importer has obtained a license from the Controller of Imports and Exports, or if the transaction is covered by an open general license, exchange is provided automatically by an author- ized bank upon application and submission of the necessary documentary evidence. Payments more than six months in advance of shipment, as well as most imports financed by suppliers' credit, require individual exchange control approval. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are controlled. Author- ized banks are empowered to approve specified categories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be ap- proved adm in is tra t ive ly, and most current pay- ments are in fact unrestricted. There is a basic allowance for travel to coun- tries outside the Scheduled Terr i tor ies4 of T Sh 4,000 a person every 3 years for persons aged 12 or older; ha lf of this amount is available to children aged 3 to 12 years. Requests for addi- tional amoun ts are examined on their merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Travelers to destinations in Bu rund i, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda, Somalia, the Sudan, and Zambia are restricted to T Sh 1,000 a year. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Uganda may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda currency. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Uganda may take out up to T Sh 250 in such currencies. Non- resident travelers may take out travelers checks or letters of credit up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Facilities exist whereby immigrant noncitizens working in Tanzania under contract in salaried employment and with a firm commitment to leave Tanzania eventually may throughout their period of employment remit abroad up to 33 Va per cent of their monthly salary uncommitted to cover fam i ly maintenance, savings, etc. Applications to remit in excess of 3 3 Va per cent of salary or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a month are considered on the ir merits by the Bank of Tanzania. Specified categories of expatriate employees may remit the total amount of their salaries. Persons making uncommitted remittances under these arrange- ments are not entitled to emigration facilities (see section on Capital, below). Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to South Africa, Portugal, all Portu- guese territories, and Rhodesia are prohibited. On the mainland, exports of products dealt with by state trading organizations and of certain other products are subject to controls and if there is a local shortage may be restricted. Other goods may be exported without license. All principal exports of Zanzibar are sold abroad by the Zanzi- 3 The latter are Bulgaria, Bu rund i, ma in land China, Czechoslovakia, Federal Republic of Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, U.S.S.R., and Yugoslavia. 4 Tanzania's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. 472 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution bar State Trading Corporation. Re-exports from Zanzibar are prohibited. Export proceeds must be collected in specified currencies (see footnote 2) w i th in six months from the date of exportation and must be surren- dered. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 2) must be sold to an authorized bank upon their collection. Travelers may bring in freely foreign currency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes must not exceed T Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arr iv ing direct from Kenya or Uganda, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are subject to control by the Bank of Tanzania and are restricted. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Uganda are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than Kenya and Uganda require individual exchange control approval. Persons leaving Tanzania per- manently who have been resident in Tanzania for four years immed ia te ly prior to the date of appli- cation and who have not been availing them- selves of the facility of mak ing uncommitted remittances of savings may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of T Sh 50,000 for each household if they take up residence in any coun- try other than Kenya or Uganda. All remaining funds must be credited to a Blocked Account or otherwise brought under control; they may then be invested in approved Tanzanian securities or placed on bank deposit. Income from such invest- ments is .transferable upon accrual, and redemp- tion proceeds become transferable upon maturity of the securities but not less than five years from the date of purchase. Furthermore, any assets in excess of the initial emigration allowance of T Sh 50,000 are remittable in five yearly install- ments of T Sh 20,000 each, after which any rema in ing amount will be considered for repatri- ation. There is no restriction on the investment of TANZANIA foreign f u n ds in Tanzania; but to ensure eventual repatriation, it is advisable to have the investment recognized by the Bank of Tanzania or to obtain a certificate of approved enterprise in terms of the Foreign Investment (Protection) Act, 1963. Foreign and domestic investment in specified types of production require approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordinance. All imports and exports of securities require approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase by nonresidents of Tanzanian securities from residents, provided that payment is received in an appropriate manner. The income from such securities is remittable, as may be the proceeds of disinvestment. Purchases of securities outside Kenya and Uganda by residents are not normally permitted. All loans or overdraf ts from residents to non- residents or to foreign-controlled resident bodies requ ire exchange control approval by the Bank of Tanzan ia. Cold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tanzan ia for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial and profes- sional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler are subject to individual licensing. Licenses are not normally granted except for im- ports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary au tho r i t ies and indus t r ial and professional users. Changes during 1969 Dur ing the year, a number of commodities were added to those subject to individual import license when originating from countries other than Kenya and Uganda. January 23. The following measures went into e f fec t: ( 1 ) The basic travel allowance for tourist travel outside the Scheduled Territories was reduced from T Sh 5,000 an adult person a year (T Sh 2,500 for children between 3 and 12 years of age) to T Sh 4,000 (T Sh 2,000 for children 473 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TANZANIA between 3 and 12 years of age) once every 3 years. These allocations were inclusive of expend- itures for hotel accommodation, car rental, etc., in the countries to be visited. ( 2) The prac t ice whereby nonresidents work- ing in Tanzan ia were allowed to remit abroad 50 per cent of the ir salary and on becoming resi- dents ( a f t er four years as a nonres iden t) to con- t inue to rem it abroad 20 per cent if they were citizens of a Sterling Area coun try, was discontin- ued. Instead, on ly genu ine expa tr ia tes in Tanza- nia on a contract and in salaried employment with a firm comm i tment to leave Tanzania even- tua l ly (and not on a pensionable appo in tment of indefinite du r a t ion) were allowed to make un- committed remittances. Throughout the ir period of emp loymen t, such persons could hencefor th opt between rem i t t ing through au tho r ized banks up to 331/3 per cent of the ir sa lary to any for- eign coun try, or rem i t t ing actual cu r rent com- m i tmen ts. Any app l ica t ion for remittance of an amount in excess of th is proportion or in excess of T Sh 3,000 a mon th would have to be referred to the exchange control authorities. Consequently, permanent residents of Tanzania, inc lud ing self- employed noncitizens and noncitizens holding pe rmanent and pensionable employment of an inde f in i te na tu re, could not make uncommitted remittances abroad. Expa t r ia tes mak ing uncom- m i t ted rem i t tances would no longer be entitled to em igra t ion fac i l i t ies. ( 3) A person w ish ing to emigrate to a coun try other than Kenya or Uganda was no rma l ly al- lowed to t ran s fer immed ia te ly up to T Sh 50,000 for each household (instead of T Sh 100,000 as prev ious ly) from his declared assets as a settling- in allowance to any foreign country. In add i t ion, the new regulation ex tended to non-Sterling Area na t iona ls the right previously reserved to Sterling Area na t iona ls r e tu rn ing to the coun try of the ir origin, to t rans fer f u n ds out of the ir assets every year a f ter the ir depa r tu re; at the same time the m a x im um year ly amount to be t rans fe r red af ter the date of emigration was reduced from T Sh 40,000 to T Sh 20,000. Five such year ly in- 474 stallments could be remitted and the balance, if any, would be considered for repatriation. Na- tionals of countries other than Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda could not ava il themselves of these emi- gration fac i l i t ies if they had previously made un- comm i t ted rem i t tances as ind ica ted above. (4) Expa tr ia tes in Tanzania on permanent and pensionable employment were henceforth a f t er four years' residence in Tanzania considered as residents for exchange control purposes. They remained en t i t led to basic tourist travel allow- ances or, optionally, to the t rans fer abroad of leave pay. They could no longer make uncommit- ted rem i t tances but remained entitled to the standard em ig ra t ion allowances upon final depar- tu re. April 10. Coins issued by the East A f r ican Cu r rency Board ceased to be legal tender. June 20. A sales tax was introduced which was applicable to v i r t u a l ly all commodities, whether imported or domestically produced. The rate of tax was 10 per cent, 15 per cent, or 20 per cent. July 1. All shipping agencies and shipping firms operating in Zanz ibar were taken over by the Zanz ibar State Trading Corporation. July 1. Gove rnment Notice No. 278 of Ju ly 19, 1968 con t a in ing the Open General License for imports was amended. A number of commodi- ties were added to the list of imports subject to licensing when or ig ina t ing from First Schedule countries. September 1. The Open General License for impor ts was amended by Notice No. 231. A numb er of commodities were added to the Second and Fourth Schedules. September 24. A second Association Agree- ment was signed by the European Economic Commun i ty and the countries of the East African Commun i ty. The first agreement, which was signed on Ju ly 26, 1968 for the period to May 31, 1969, had never entered into force. The new agreement would take effect upon ratification. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.0427245 gram of fine gold per Thai Baht or B 20.80 = US$1. There is an Exchange Equalization Fund which limits its operations to spot transactions in U.S. dollars with commercial banks. All incoming exchange must be sold to an authorized agent. All outgoing payments are subject to approval (given automat- ically for bona fide commercial transactions and other current paymen t s ). As at December 31, 1969, the buy ing and selling rates of the Exchange Equalization Fund for spot exchange transactions with banks in U.S. dollars were B 20.875 buying, and B 20.90 selling, per US$1; the authorized banks' rates were B 20.85 buying, and B 21.00 selling, per US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Tha i land on behalf of the Ministry of Finance; the Bank delegates responsibility for most trans- actions to authorized agents (i.e., authorized banks and authorized companies) and to author- ized persons. Imports of gold require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. Certain other imports and a few exports are subject to licensing by the Ministry of Economic A f f a i r s. Prescription of Currency There are no special requ iremen ts concerning the currency to be used for settlements with for- eign countries; payments are made largely in ster- ling and related currencies or in U.S. dollars. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: Transferable Accounts and Blocked Accounts. In principle, transfers of baht to and from nonresi- dent accounts require approval; approval is not required, however, when the account is held for foreign diplomatic entities, international organiza- tions stationed in Thailand, or Thai nationals temporarily abroad. Transferable Accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of foreign currency and with funds eligible for remittance abroad in foreign currency. Balances on Transfer- able Accounts are convertible into foreign cur- rency at any time and may be debited to pay for exports. Transfers of baht from Blocked Accounts for the purchase of foreign currency, except for certain current payments, are subject to approval by the Bank of Thailand. imports and import Payments Most commodities may be imported freely; but impo rt licenses are required for some commodi- ties, and the import of certain other items is pro- hibited. All imports of goods originating in or shipped from mainland China or Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of tea leaf, tea dust, and coffee are subject to a requirement that the impor ter purchase a proportionate quantity of the same type of goods produced in Thailand. Payments for imports may be approved by authorized banks upon submission of documents; the specific approval of the Bank of Thailand, which is given for all bona fide transactions, is required for advance payments in excess of US$1,400 and for opening revolving letters of credit or letters of credit with an expiry date exceeding nine months. Importers must obtain, in addition to the usual documents, a "certificate of payment" from an authorized agent before imported goods exceeding B 10,000 in value can be cleared through customs; military equipment imported by the Ministry of Defense and certain other minor categories of imports are exempt from th is requirement. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require authorization, which is usually given by an authorized bank; exchange is provided freely. Cargo insurance premiums due to foreign insurers may be remit- ted in foreign exchange; if they are paid in baht to an agent or branch office of an insurance com- pany registered abroad, they may be remitted as earned income after taxes. The transfer of profits and dividends is permitted freely by the Bank of Thailand. Apart from foreign travel, family main- tenance abroad, and educational expenses abroad, authorized agents are permitted to approve appli- cations for exchange without supporting docu- ments, provided that each payment does not 475 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution THAILAND exceed the equivalent of US$140. For foreign travel, f am i ly remittances, and study abroad, the amoun ts of exchange that an authorized agent may sell are sub ject to cer ta in max imum limits. Tourists require a "certificate of exportation" to take out precious stones and gold or platinum jewe lry other than personal effects with a total va lue in excess of B 50,000. For persons traveling abroad, authorized agents may approve exchange allowances not exceeding the equ iva lent of US$630, or US$40 a day or the equ iva lent for not more than 90 days, whichever is the greater; for business travel, addi- tional foreign exchange not exceeding one half of the allowance may be obtained in certain cases for en ter ta inment expenses. Amoun ts above these limits are approved by the Bank of Thailand upon verification. No person may take out local currency exceeding B 500 (or B 1,000 for a fam i ly traveling on one passport) or foreign cur- rency exceeding US$140 (US$280 for a family traveling on a single passport) without the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of tin ore, paddy, and rice bran are prohibited and all exports or re-exports to Rho- desia requ i re an ind iv idual license. Certain cate- gories of exports are subject to licensing, irrespective of destination.1 All other commodi- ties may be exported freely, except to Rhodesia. The exporter is required to obtain a "certificate of exportation" f rom an authorized agent in order to clear the shipment through customs, as fol- lows: for shipments of rice, rice flour, tin, or rubber exceeding B 1,000 in value through any customs station; and, w i th minor exceptions, for other goods exceeding B 10,000 in value through any customs station. This certificate assures repa- triation of the export proceeds. Export proceeds must be collected and must be sold to authorized agents within 7 days of receipt; their surrender must take place within 15 days from the date of export if payment is made by letter of credit, 21 days if a sight bill is d rawn for collection, or 15 days af ter the due date of a usance bill, but not later than 3 months af ter the date of export. 1 Gold, p la t inum, precious stones, live cattle and other specified animals, sorghum, maize, rice and rice prod- ucts, raw sugar, tin ore, certain other minerals, brass and copper in certain forms, radioactive materials, salt exported by sea, and Deva and Buddha images and the ir par ts. 476 Proceeds from invisibles All receipts from invisibles must be sold to an au thor ized agent. No person may bring into Thai- land local currency exceeding B 500 without a perm i t, and a fam i ly traveling on the same pass- port may not bring in more than B 1,000 without a permit. Travelers may bring in any amount in foreign notes and coins. Capital All ou tward transfers of capital, including prem iums on life insurance policies, by residents or nonresidents are subject to approval. Personal capital exports by residents are restricted. Foreign exchange from inward capital movements must be sold to an authorized agent and the purpose of the t rans fer must be declared. Foreign invest- ments in Thailand can be accorded preferential t rea tment under the Industrial Investment Act of February 9, 1962; this trea tment includes a guar- antee of the transfer abroad of current net earn- ings and of capital repatriation. The repatriation of other capital is considered on the merits of each case; approval is normally granted if it can be shown that the funds originated abroad. Gold Residents may hold and negotiate domestically gold jewe lry, gold coins, and unworked gold. Imports and exports of gold other than jewelry are subject to the following arrangements, unless they are effected by or on behalf of the monetary authorities. Commercial imports of gold in any form are restricted and require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance. For gold bullion, the Ministry fixes an authorized quantity of imports each year; the quota for 1970 is 240,000 troy ounces. A bidding system operates under which the importer offering the highest premium by tender is awarded a license as sole importer of the authorized quantity. In addition to this pre- m ium, which accrues to the Government, the importer is requ ired to pay to the Ministry of Finance a fee at the rate of US$1.75 per troy ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ounce of gold. The fee is payable in baht at the par value. Exports of gold bullion are prohibited, while those of gold ornaments exceeding B 50,000 in value require a certificate of exportation in addition to the export entry, for presenta- tion to the customs, but bear no export duty or taxes. The conveyance of gold in trans it is not restricted and is free of customs charges. Changes during 1969 January 1. The export of ammonium sulphate, super phosphate, rock phosphate, and sulphate of potash was exempted from individual licensing. January 6. Authorized banks could convert into foreign currency any amount of foreign banknotes and coins brought into Thailand by transit travelers, provided that the currency imported had been declared to the customs upon entry. Previously, such conversions were limited to the equivalent of US$1,200, unless the import of a larger amount was covered by an import license. February 11. The import of automobile tires weighing more than 15 kilograms per un i t, and of inner tubes to be used with such tires, was exempted from ind iv idual licensing. March 6. The value of precious stones and of gold or p la t inum jewelry that could be taken out of the country by tourists without a certificate of exportation was increased from B 10,000 to B 50,000. April 10. The importation of used automobiles and used trucks other than trucks weighing more than four metric tons was made subject to indi- vidual licensing. May 20. The Exchange Equalization Fund increased its selling rate for U.S. dollars from B 20.77 to B 20.82 per US$1 and its buy ing rate from B 20.72 to B 20.77 per US$1. THAILAND June 23. The Exchange Equalization Fund increased its selling rate for U.S. dollars from B 20.82 to B 20.90 per US$1 and its buying rate from B 20.77 to B 20.875 per US$1. August 5. The tax on rice exports was reduced for exports to be made prior to October 1, 1969. On September 15, it was announced that the reduction was to be extended to December 2. August 11. The value up to which goods could be imported w i thout a certificate of payment and exported w i thout a certificate of exportation was raised from B 5,000 to B 10,000. August 27. The authority granted to author- ized agents to approve applications for payments in respect of imports that do not require Form E.G. 21 was increased from B 5,000 to B 10,000 for each shipment. August 31. The validity expired of the import quota of 240,000 troy ounces for gold that had been set for the 12-month period September 1, 1968 to September 1, 1969. A new import quota was not announced un t il December 30, 1969. September 9. The maximum permitted rate of interest on foreign currency deposits exempt from the surrender requirements was raised from 7 per cent to 12 per cent per annum. November 7. Exports of iron scrap and of iron in m any other forms required an individual license. November 25. Imports of cyclamic acid and of all salts derived from it required an individual license. December 2. The amount of domestic bank- notes and coins that could w i thout prior approval be exported by post was increased from B 50 to B 250 per shipment. December 3. Export taxes on most types of rice were reduced. June 3. The importation of specified rubber tires for trucks was made subject to individual licensing. December 30. A quota of 240,000 troy ounces was announced for gold imports du r ing the calen- dar year 1970. 477 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO Exchange System No par value for the currency of Togo has been established w i th the Fund. The un it of cur- rency is the CFA Franc, which is officially main- tained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0.02 French f ranc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 = US$1.1 Exchange transactions in French f rancs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Togo's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the A f a rs and Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West Afr ican Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tan ia, Niger, Senegal, and Upper Vo l ta ); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked w i th the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central Afr ican Repub- lic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and Ma l i ). Hence, all paymen ts to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Togo itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For the purpose of certain capital controls, however, the countries listed above are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Finance, Economy, and Planning, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign secur- ities in Togo, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Togo for placement in foreign countries. Much of the approval authority in respect of exchange control has been delegated to authorized interme- d iar ies. The BCEAO is authorized to collect, e i ther d irec t ly or through the intermediary of the b anks and the Postal Adm in i s t ra t ion, any infor- ma t ion necessary to compile the balance of pay- men ts statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign coun tr ies must be effected through au thor ized banks or the Postal Administration. Import and export licenses are issued by the For- eign Trade Office in the Ministry of Commerce, Indus t ry, Tourism, and Planning, except those for gold, wh ich are granted by the Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Planning. Prescription of Currency Togo is an Operations Account coun try of the French Franc Area; since the BCEAO maintains an Operations Account w i th the French Treasury, se t t lemen ts w i th France (including its Overseas Depa r tmen ts and Territories except the French Territory of the A f ras and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the currency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through corre- spondent banks in France in any of the curren- cies of those countries —provided that the curren- cies are quoted on the Paris exchange ma rke t —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs. Certain settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. Nonresident Accounts The regulations pertaining to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The crediting to nonresident accounts of CFA bankno tes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other ins t i tu te of issue that main- tains an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. Imports and import Payments 1 The CFA f ranc is issued by the B anque Central des Etats de l 'A f r ique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, M a u r i t a n i a, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. Most imports of Rhodesian origin and all impor ts of Portuguese or South African origin are prohibited. 478 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Imports from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely, but requ ire the prior authorization of the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Tourism, and P lann ing. Imports from all other countries require individual import licen- ses. In pr inc ip le, the licenses are to be granted in accordance with an import program which is to be established each year and which may inc lude recommendations by a jo int French-Togolese Committee, as specified in the Economic Cooper- ation Agreement with France; as yet, however, an import program has not been established and almost all requests for import licenses from all sources are granted. There are no formal import free lists. The issuance of import licenses for printed piece goods of Japanese origin is condi- tional on the purchase of a quan t i ty of the local product equal to the quantity to be imported. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 20,000. The import licenses entitle importers to purchase the necessary exchange, spot, but not earlier than eight days before shipment if a documentary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commodities have already been imported. Payments for invisibles Certain paymen ts to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to approval. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are also permitted freely when the basic transaction has been approved. For tourist travel, residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area may obtain an exchange allo- cation of an amount equivalent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person (CFAF 25,000 for children under t e n ); any foreign exchange remaining after return to Togo must be surrendered. For business travel, there is a special allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a maximum TOGO of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified coun t r ies2 or CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 150,000, for travel to any other foreign country. The transfer of the entire net salary of a foreigner working in Togo is per- mitted upon presentation of the appropriate pay voucher, provided that the transfer takes place within three months of the pay period. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO banknotes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by other Operations Account countries. Travelers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO banknotes but if going to a country that is not a member of the West African Monetary Union they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 250,000. Resident travelers must have their purchases and sales of foreign currency marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may take out foreign banknotes and coins up to the amount declared by them on en try or, if no declaration has been made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000.3 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to all countries require licenses. Cer- ta in exports to Rhodesia and all exports to Portu- gal and South Africa are prohibited. Export pro- ceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered; authorized diamond pur- chasing offices, however, may retain such foreign currency proceeds in foreign currency accounts with authorized banks in Togo. All export trans- actions re la t ing to foreign countries must be dom- iciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds f rom transactions in invisibles with France, Monaco, and other Operations Account 2 These are Algeria, Aus tr ia, Belgium, Cyprus, Den- ma rk, F in land, Federal Repub l ic of Germany, Ghana, Greece, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jordan, Lebanon, L ibyan A rab Repub l ic, Luxembou rg, Malta, Morocco, Ne the r lands, N iger ia, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Sw i tze r land, Syr ian A rab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, Un i ted A rab Repub l ic, Un i ted K ingdom, and Yugoslavia. 3 Reduced to CFAF 25,000 on February 28, 1970. 479 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amoun ts due f rom residents of other countries in respect of services, and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets, must be collected and surrendered w i th in one month of the due date or the date of receipt. Resident and nonres ident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any ins t i tu te of issue m a i n t a i n i ng an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resi- dent travelers must w i th in eight days sell to an authorized bank any foreign banknotes and trav- elers checks they bring in. Capital Certain capital transfers to Rhodesia are pro- h ib i ted. Capital movements between Togo and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account coun tr ies in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries requ ire exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such coun tr ies are permitted freely. Special controls (additional to any exchange control requ i remen ts th at may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Togo, and over the soliciting of funds in Togo for placing abroad; these con- trols relate to the transactions themselves, not to payments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities and those over the solicit- ing of funds in Togo, these control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose institute of issue is linked with the French Treas- ury by an Operations Account. There also are special controls applicable to all countries other than Togo with respect to imports and exports of gold. All investment abroad by residents of Togo requires prior authorization by the Minister of 480 Finance. Foreign direct investment in Togo,4 and Togolese direct investments abroad,5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance and Economy before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to h im. The total or partial l iqu ida t ion of any inward or outward investment also requires prior declaration to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liquidation of investments, whether these are Togolese inves tmen ts abroad or foreign investments in Togo, must be reported to the Minister of Finance and Economy w i th in 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as inves tmen ts imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct investment, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale, of foreign securities in Togo requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection with ( 1 ) loans backed by a guarantee from the Togolese Government and (2) shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Togo has previously been authorized. Borrow ing by residents from nonresidents requires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt f rom this au tho r iza t ion: (1) loans constituting a direct inves tmen t, which are subject to prior dec- lara t ion, as indicated above, and (2) loans con- tracted by registered banks. The repayment of any foreign borrowing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, requires the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement are loans constituting a direct invest- ment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. 4 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Togo that are d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Togo of foreign companies. 5 In c lud ing those made through the in te rmed ia ry of fo re ign companies that are d irec t ly or ind i rec t ly con- trolled by persons in Togo and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Togo. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO by Order No. 22 bis. TOGO Under the provisions of the general tax legisla- tion, certain fiscal benefits are accorded to speci- fied new inves tment (foreign and domestic) in both new and existing enterprises. Also, certain enterprises, in accordance with the ir importance to the economic development of Togo, may be granted by the Government, for a specified num- ber of years, special privileges relating to the main- tenance of existing taxes and the exemption from import duties on a large number of items. Such privileges are negotiated by the Government and the investor. An Investment Law (Law No. 65-10 of July 21, 1965) applicable to both foreign and domestic capital lists the types of enterprises that may be designated as "priority enterprises," provided that the head office is in Togo. Such firms may sign a special found ing agreement (convention d'établissement) by which they receive certain tax benefits. Firms that undertake to invest at least CFAF 20 million may receive a guarantee in respect of their taxation over a number of years. The law guarantees the right of free transfer abroad of capital invested in Togo and of all investment income therefrom. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Togo. Imports and exports of gold from or to any other country require prior authorization by the Minister of Finance and Economy, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are ( 1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manu- factured articles containing a minor quantity of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a max imum weight to be announced by the Minister of Finance. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. Changes during 1969 January 23. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis- à-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and January 24. Order No. 23/MFE provided that res ident and nonresident travelers could not take out more than CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, or the equ iva lent in French banknotes or b ankno t es of an in s t i tu te of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera t ions Account with the French Treasury. Impo r ts by res ident or nonresident travelers of BCEAO bankno te s, French banknotes, and bank- notes of o ther Operations Account countries would be f ree, as would be imports of any means of payment denom ina ted in a foreign currency. Res ident travelers had to surrender within eight days any foreign currency they brought in. Non- resident trave lers could take out foreign bank- notes up to any amount declared upon entry or, if no declaration was made, up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000. The Order also introduced an exchange allocation of the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year for tourist travel by res iden ts to fore ign countries (CFAF 25,000 for ch i ldren under t e n ). For business travel, a spe- cial allocation was fixed of the equivalent of CFAF 10,000 a day, subject to a m ax imum of CFAF 100,000 a trip, for travel to specified foreign coun tr ies, and the equivalent of CFAF 15,000 a day, subject to a max imum of CFAF 150,000 a trip, for travel to other foreign countries. Resi- dent travelers were required to obtain a personal fo re ign exchange booklet (carnet de change) in which all purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be ma rked. January 28. The BCEAO, by Instruction No. 1 to Banks, requested the banks to provide mon th ly data on their foreign position. For this purpose, all countries other than Togo were to be considered foreign countries. February 5. Circular No. 2 established further procedures for certain types of payment to foreign countries. It established the terms on which for- eign exchange could be purchased fo rwa rd. This was only allowed for import payments; the facility would not be available, however, until fur ther notice. Spot cover for import payments could only be obtained under a documentary credit. Spot purchases of foreign currency for import payments could not be made until eight days before the date of shipment, where a documentary credit 481 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TOGO was opened, or eight days before the due date according to the commercial contract, where the goods had already been cleared through customs. February 20. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 2 to Banks concerning the repor t ing on their forward liabilities in foreign currency. April 1. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 3 to Banks concerning the control over the ir ex- ternal claims and liabilities. April 14. C ircu lar No. 9 provided forward cover facilities for one month (nonrenewab le) for imports of 15 groups of commod i t ies and for up to three months for four other commodities. May 2. Order No. 164/MFE/SG pe rm i t ted dia- mond pu rcha s ing offices to have foreign currency accounts w i th au thor ized banks opened in the names of the ir representatives in Togo and became exempt from the obligation to surrender the foreign currency proceeds from th e ir exports to foreign countries. August 14. C i rcu lar No. 20 was issued con- ce rn ing l i v i ng expenses of persons studying abroad. The basic allocation for unmarried non- boa rd ing s tuden ts was set at US$300 a person a mon th for the Un i ted States and the equ iva lent of CFAF 50,000 a person a month for other foreign coun t r ie s. August 14. C i rcu lar No. 21 was issued con- ce rn ing the a l loca t ion of foreign currency to trav- elers in cases not covered by Circular No. 2. August 14. Circular No. 22 was issued con- c e rn ing insu rance and reinsurance transactions. August 14. C ircu lar No. 23 was issued con- ce rn ing f am i ly rem i t tances to foreign countries. The app roval of t ran s fe rs up to CFAF 20,000 a mon th for each app l icant was delegated to au thor ized bank s. August 14. C ircu lar No. 24 was issued con- ce rn ing t r an s f e rs of salaries to officials stationed abroad. June 10. The BCEAO issued Ins truc t ion No. 4 to Banks concerning their external claims and liabilities. August 14. Circular No. 25 summarized the types of payment for which the approval author- ity had been delegated to authorized banks. June 19. Circular No. 14 was issued concern- ing expenses and receipts of foreign ships in Togo and of national ships abroad. Special accounts for these purposes were introduced (Comptes d'escale). July 29. C i rcu lar No. 16 mod if ied Circular No. 14. July 29. C i rcu lar No. 17 was issued concern ing suspense accounts (Comptes d'attente) and sus- pense dossiers for nonresidents. July 29. C ircu lar No. 18 was issued concerning the open ing of foreign accounts and foreign dos- siers for persons who, having been residents, become nonresidents. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French f ranc, the Mala- gasy f ranc, and the Mali f ranc remained unchanged. August 13. Circular No. 19 was issued con- cerning transfers of salaries by fore ign workers. 482 August 30. C ircu lar Letter No. 27 amended C i r cu l a rs Nos. 14, 16, 17, and 18. September 5. Circular No. 30 was issued con- c e rn ing the repo r t ing by authorized banks on t ran s fe rs received from foreign countries. November 17. Decree No. 69-233 specified the requ iremen ts for recognition as an importer and provided that all imports valued at CFAF 10,000 or more required a prior authorization granted by the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, Tourism, and P lann ing; for imports from countries outside the French Franc Area, this authorization took the fo rm of an import license. December 5. Decree No. 69-232 was issued concerning certain investment and borrowing transactions with foreign countries. It modi- fied the capital controls in troduced by Decree No. 67-135 of June 28, 1967; Articles 3 to 14 of that Decree were revoked. For purposes of inves tment and borrowing transactions, foreign coun tr ies con t inued to be defined as in Decree No. 216 of December 24, 1968, i.e., as countries o ther than France, Monaco, and the Operations ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Account countries. All payments received from foreign countries by an authorized bank for the account of a resident had to be declared to the Minister of Finance. All payments and receipts relating to the transactions mentioned below had to be channeled through authorized banks. Henceforth all investments made abroad by residents required the prior authorization of the Minister; previously, direct investments required only prior declaration to the Minister, after which the latter had two months to request postpone- ment. The liquidation of investments abroad con- tinued to be subject to prior declaration. These provisions also applied to the making and liqui- dation of investments abroad by nonresident com- panies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Togo or so controlled by branches abroad of residents. Direct investment in Togo remained subject to prior declaration, after which the Minister could during a two-month period request postponement. The proceeds of the liquidation by a nonresident of direct investments or other investments could be transferred abroad after submission of sup- porting documents to the Minister. Borrowing abroad remained subject to prior authorization by the Minister. The exemptions from this requirement were redefined. The report- ing requirements for amounts borrowed or repaid were revised. The repayment of any foreign borrowing, whether authorized or exempt from authorization, required the prior authorization of the Minister; exempt from this requirement were loans constituting a direct investment, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. TOGO December 5. Decree No. 69-231 was issued concerning certain financial transactions with for- eign countries. For purposes of this Decree, for- eign coun tr ies were defined as all countries other than Togo. It revoked Decree No. 67-135 of June 28, 1967 and its addition of September 26, 1968. The prior authorization of the Minister of Finance was required for (1) the issuing, adver- tising, or offer ing for sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign public organizations or companies, and international institutions; (2) the soliciting in any way of funds for deposit with for- eign private persons and foreign firms or institu- tions; (3) any publicity with a view to the placing of funds abroad or subscribing to real estate building operations abroad. Exempt from special or general permission, however, were the various activities mentioned above when relating to loans guaranteed by the Togolese Government or relat- ing to shares similar to securities whose issuing, advertising, or offer ing for sale in Togo had pre- viously been authorized. The import and export of gold required the prior approval of the Minister. Exempt were ( 1 ) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; ( 2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold; and ( 3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a m ax imum weight to be announced by the Minister. Residents traveling to France, Monaco, or Operations Account countries outside the West African Monetary Union were required to declare to the customs the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were carrying if that amount exceeded CFAF 250,000. 483 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO Exchange Rale System The par va lue is 0.444335 gram of fine gold per Trinidad and Tobago Dollar or TT$2.00 = US$1. The Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago ma in ta ins a fixed official relationship with sterling of TT$4.80 = £1.* Sterling exchange transac- tions through the Central Bank are for amounts of TT$25,000 and above; and these as well as transactions in foreign currencies are subject to exchange charges up to a max imum of 1 per cent on inward and ou tward transfers; at present the rates are V4 of 1 per cent on ou tward transfers and nil on inward transfers. All other exchange transactions in Trinidad and Tobago are made through authorized banks. Sterling exchange transactions through commercial banks are at present subject to vary ing exchange charges according to the amount and mode of transfer. The banks ma in ta in fixed exchange rates of TT$4.80 - £1 and EC$4.80 = <£! (see below) and charge commissions of s/s of 1 per cent and i/16 of 1 per cent, respectively, for sales and purchases of telegraphic transfers of <£ 50,000 or more. Exchange rates for other con- vertible currencies are determined daily, on the basis of their closing quotations of the previous day in terms of sterling on the London market, plus or m inus the above charges. Notes issued by the East Caribbean Currency Authority (East Caribbean dollars) and the cen- tral banks of Jamaica and Guyana are not legal tender in Trinidad and Tobago, but as a result of an arrangement with the monetary authorities in those areas, the notes are purchased by the mon- etary authorities at par and are repatriated by them in return for reciprocity of treatment with respect to notes of the Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago. The East Caribbean dollar, which is issued by the East Caribbean Currency Author- ity, has a fixed relationship to sterling of EC$4.80 = £1.2 This corresponds to a rela- tionship to the U.S. dollar of EC$2.00 = US$1. 1 Under Trinidad and Tobago's exchange control regu- lations, foreign currencies are all non-Sterling Area cur- rencies and the South African rand. 2 The East Caribbean dollar was issued on October 6, 1965 by the East Caribbean Currency Authority, pursuant to the East Caribbean Currency Agreement of 484 Administration of Control The administration of exchange control for payments for invisibles is carried out by the Cen- tral Bank acting as agent for the Government; for paymen ts for imports, by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce through its Trade and Commerce Division; and for proceeds from exports, by the M in is try of Finance through its Customs and Excise Division. For payments relating to certain specified invisibles, authority is delegated to authorized banks by the Ministry of Finance. Import and export licenses, when required, are issued by the Trade and Commerce Division of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The exchange control system provides for com- pulsory surrender of foreign exchange 3 and for control over both current and capital transac- tions. No control is at present exercised over transfers of sterling by residents of Trinidad and Tobago to other parts of the Sterling Area (except South A f r ica ), but all payments and transfers to countries outside the Sterling Area, to an External Account in the United Kingdom, or to an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars require the approval of the exchange con- trol authorities; payments to Rhodesia are restricted. Short-term credit transactions, such as the granting of credit, loan, or overdraft facilities by resident banks to nonresidents, are also sub- ject to control. Prescription of Currency Trinidad and Tobago is a member of the Ster- ling Area and maintains prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United King- dom, except in respect of South Africa, which has been excluded from Trinidad and Tobago's 1965, to replace the West Indian dollar at par. The East Caribbean dollar is the monetary unit of Antigua, Bar- bados, Dominica, Montserrat, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia, St. Vincent, and Grenada; there are no restrictions on the movement of local currency notes between these areas and Trinidad and Tobago. 3 If the business of a trader, firm, or company involves constant receipts and payments in non-Sterling Area currencies, permission is granted for the retention of a portion of receipts in a Retained Account, subject to the requirement that periodic statements of credits and debits to the Account must be submitted to the authorities. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution definition of the Sterling Area. Settlements with residents of other parts of the Sterling Area may be made in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, sterling, or other Sterling Area currencies. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, to res- idents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to the credit of an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area, or by crediting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any non-Sterling Area currency. Payments from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must be received in sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Ster- ling Area, or by debiting an External Account in Trinidad and Tobago dollars, or in any specified currency.4 Special regulations apply to Rhodesia. Nonresident Accounts There are two types of nonresident accounts: External Accounts and Blocked Accounts. External Accounts may be opened by commer- cial banks for nonresidents of the Sterling Area. These accounts may be credited with payments by residents of the Sterling Area, approved by the exchange control authorities; with transfers from other External Accounts; and with proceeds from the sale of gold and foreign currency to an authorized dealer. They may be debited for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area; for trans- fers to other External Accounts; and for pur- chases of non-Sterling Area currencies. The funds in these accounts are treated as equivalent to External Account sterling and may be transferred between residents of countries outside the Sterling Area. Blocked Accounts may be credited with funds that may not be credited to External Accounts (e.g., proceeds from the sale by a nonresident of capital assets in Trinidad and Tobago, or pro- ceeds from the sale of sterling securities. The use of balances in Blocked Accounts is subject to authorization. Blocked funds may be reinvested in Sterling Area securities which are not redeem- 4 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Burmese kyats, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, Italian lire, Japanese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, Rhodesian pounds, South African rand, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO able either optionally or contractually within five years from the date of acquisition. The income from such securities, and the proceeds at maturity of any that are redeemable, are available for credit to an External Account. Permission may be given for funds on Blocked Accounts of per- sons who have emigrated from Trinidad and Tobago to be remitted to the United Kingdom for the purchase of investment currency. Imports and Import Payments All imports from Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for imports from South Africa. Most imports from other countries are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction. For import control purposes, countries are divided into two groups: ( 1 ) Albania, Bulgaria, ma in land China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Yugoslavia, and the U.S.S.R.; and (2) all other countries, including the United Kingdom but excepting Rhodesia and South A f r ica. The import regulations include prohibition or stringent control, state trading, individual licen- sing, and open general license. ( 1) The main imports that are prohibited or are subject to stringent control are cosmetics, sac- char in, coffee and cocoa beans, mechanical gam- bling devices, beer in containers other than ten- ounce glass bottles and cans, and complete passenger automobiles. Firearms, ammunition, narcotics, and certain other goods are either pro- hibited or rigidly controlled for security and health reasons. ( 2) Imported rice in bulk is the only commod- ity subject to state trading. This rice is normally imported from Guyana under government con- tracts, at agreed prices.5 ( 3) All commodities other than those specified under ( 1) and ( 2 ), above, are imported under either an ind iv idual license or an open general license arrangement. As indicated below, the scope of the arrangement depends on the coun- tries from which the commodities are imported. 5 Packaged rice may be imported through normal commercial channels, but such imports are not usually allowed from countries other than Guyana unless the contracted supplies are not forthcoming. 485 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO (a) Imports from Albania, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hun- gary, North Korea, Poland, Rumania, Yugosla- via, and the U.S.S.R. All imports from these coun t r ies requ i re a specific license. In practice, licenses are gran ted free ly for imports from Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Yugoslavia of com- modities not on the "negative" list mentioned und er (b) below. For the other countries in this group, licenses are granted only for essential goods. (b) Imports from all other countries except Rhodesia and South Africa. For imports from these countries a "negative" list is published, which lists all goods subject to ind iv idu al licen- sing. (Specific licenses are usua l ly not requ ired for the impor ta t ion of such goods, however, when they qu a l i fy for p re fe ren t ial trea tment w i th in the Caribbean Free Trade Association, of which Trinidad and Tobago is a member .) All other goods may be imported under open general license. The "negative" list comprises over 400 t a r i ff items. Licenses for these items may be issued by the M in is t ry of Indus t ry and Com- merce, provided that domestic indus t ry is unable to sa t isfy the demand for the commodity in ques- tion. Whenever restrictions are applied on imports f rom countries other th an those under (a) above, no d iscr im ina t ion is practiced because of the coun t ry of origin or the currency involved. Paymen ts for all impor ts from countries out- side the Sterling Area require an exchange license. If prescription of currency regulations are complied w i th, exchange licenses are granted w i thout res tr ic t ion or u n d ue delay whenever the au tho r i t ies are sa t is f ied th at no un au tho r i z ed cap- ital t r an s f er is invo lved. Payments for invisibles Paymen ts for cu r rent invisibles originating in the Sterling Area are permitted freely. Those originating outside the Sterling Area require the specific approval of the au thor i t ies. Applications for foreign exchange must be supported by appropriate documen ta ry evidence. As a ma t ter of policy, no restrictions are imposed on paymen ts for current in terna t ional 486 transactions, except where payments to Rhodesia are concerned. Under authority delegated by the Government, the authorized banks may approve applications for fore ign exchange within pre- scribed limits for certain invisibles. When addi- t ional amoun ts are needed, the approval of the au tho r i t ies is requ ired and this is granted pro- vided th at unau tho r ized capital transfers are not invo lved. The basic allowance for tourist travel is TT$ 1,200 a person a year. Res iden ts and nonresidents may take out Trin- idad and Tobago notes and /or Sterling Area notes up to the equ iva lent of <£10 (TT$48.00). Travelers who are regarded as residents of Trini- dad and Tobago may export part or all of their basic travel allowance (TT$ 1,200) in foreign currency notes. Nonresidents visiting Trinidad and Tobago may, on depar ture, take out foreign cur- rency notes up to the amount brought in by them. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are prohibited and no licenses are issued for exports to South Africa. Exports of certain listed goods require an individ- ual license. The list includes some foods tuffs, arms and explosives, animals, gold, and petro- leum and petroleum products produced in Trini- dad and Tobago, as well as specified products ( about 40 t a r i ff i tems) not produced there. Exports of all other commodities are permitted by an open general license. General licenses have been issued to permit petroleum companies to export w i thout specific licenses. Export proceeds received in currencies other than Sterling Area currencies (including East Caribbean dollars) must be surrendered, but exporters of certain goods, notably petroleum, may be authorized to retain abroad a portion of their proceeds. In practice, the petroleum compa- nies operating in Trinidad and Tobago repatriate foreign exchange to the extent of their local cur- rency needs. Proceeds from Invisibles Proceeds from current invisibles received in currencies other than Trinidad and Tobago dol- lars or Sterling Area currencies (including East Ca r ibbean do l lars) must be surrendered. Insur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution anee, shipping, and similar companies operating in Trinidad and Tobago are usually authorized to maintain operating accounts for receipts and expenditures in non-Sterling Area currency which are inherent parts of their businesses. These com- panies give periodic accounts of their exchange transactions to the authorities. Residents and nonresidents may bring in Trini- dad and Tobago currency notes and/or other Sterling Area currency notes up to the equivalent of £10 (TT$48.00). Foreign currency notes may be imported freely by residents and nonresi- dents. Capital Capital transfers from Trinidad and Tobago to other countries in the Sterling Area, except South Africa, are permitted freely, but those to coun- tries outside the Sterling Area are closely regu- lated. However, repayment of commercial credit, gifts, emigration allowances (in limited amoun ts), and legacies are permitted freely. For transactions in securities, no authorized depositories have been appointed in Trinidad and Tobago, but dealings in securities largely conform in other respects to the practice in the United Kingdom. Restrictions are placed on the import and export of all securities except those entered in a Register in the Sterling Area that is not a Subsidiary Register. Contractual amortization on sterling securities is permitted, and also on mortgages and other loans if the original borrowing occurred prior to September 1939 or was subsequently approved by the exchange control authorities. Proceeds from the sale of securities or other investments owned by nonresidents of the Sterling Area may not ordinarily be transferred and are eligible for credit only to a Blocked Account (see section on Nonresident Accounts, above); how- ever, approval is often given to residents to pur- chase such assets. Nonresident capital invested in Trinidad and Tobago after January 1950 may be repatriated together with capital gains, provided that the investment has been approved by the Government. Residents may transfer prescribed securities to nonresidents, with the prior approval of the TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO exchange control authorities, provided that the fu ll proceeds of sale are received in non-Sterling Area currency or sterling from an External Account in any other part of the Sterling Area. When securities are sold or redeemed in a market outside the Sterling Area, the proceeds may either be brought in and sold to an authorized dealer at the official market rate of exchange, or, with the prior approval of the exchange control authorities, be invested outside the Sterling Area in similar securities. Purchases of non-Sterling Area securities by residents must be financed with investment currency purchased in the United Kingdom with the concurrence of the Bank of England; such purchases are seldom authorized. Nonresidents may sell local securities, provided that the proceeds are credited to a Blocked Account or are reinvested in other local securities which are either irredeemable or not redeemable w i th in five years from the date of purchase. The laws of Trinidad and Tobago do not dis- criminate between nationals and foreigners in the formation and operation of companies in that country. Foreigners are required to obtain a license under the Aliens (Landholding) Ordi- nance in order to hold interest in real estate or to hold shares in local companies. Prospective for- eign investors must obtain approval for their project from the authorities in Trinidad and Tobago in order to be able to repatriate capital and capital gains. The proposed project must sat- isfy the authorities that it will be either a net earner or a net saver of any currency other than the Trinidad and Tobago dollar (not necessarily the original currency of investment), or, alterna- tively, that if any loss is involved it can be justi- fied in terms of other benefits to the country. Since 1950, the Government has enacted basic incentive legislation designed to attract domestic and foreign investment in manufacturing and import-substituting industry. This law provides for the gran t ing of certain concessions to indus- tries declared to be pioneer industries, i.e., indus- tries which have not previously existed in Trini- dad and Tobago or which are not being conducted on a commercial scale, or any industry for which there are favorable prospects for future development. Every pioneer manufacturer is enti- tled to temporary relief from import duties and taxes and to other privileges. 487 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO The proceeds (including capital gains) realized from part or all of a direct capital investment made after J anu a ry 1, 1950 by a nonresident of the Sterling Area in an approved project may, if desired, be repatriated at any time. The invest- ment may have been, or may be, made in one or more of the following ways: in non-Sterling Area currency or sterling appropriate to the investor's country of residence; in sterling eligible for remittance to the nonresident investor; or in goods and services supplied from the country of the investor. This right to repatriate funds is, however, subject to the following conditions. (a) The right will not normally apply to the purchase of shares on a stock exchange unless this purchase formed an integral part of an approved capital investment project. (b) When an investment did not require per- mission under the exchange control regulations, e.g., when it was made through a local branch, the right will be allowed only if the investor obtained exchange control approval of his project at the time the investment was made. There are limitations on the extent to which banks may grant finance to nonresident-controlled local companies. Such companies are normally required to raise any local capital needed to sup- plement their assets by issuing either shares or bonds to residents of Trinidad and Tobago. Gold Gold is defined by the Defence (F inance) Regulations, 1942 as gold coin and bullion. The regulations provide that, except with spe- cific exemptions and permissions granted by the Minister of Finance : ( 1 ) one party to every transaction in gold between residents must be an authorized bank; (2) gold held by residents must be surrendered to an authorized bank; and (3) gold may not be taken or sent out of Trinidad and Tobago. Residents are permitted in appropri- ate cases to purchase, hold, or sell gold coins in Trinidad and Tobago for numismatic purposes. Control on the import and export of gold is administered by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce by regulations scheduled under the Trade Ordinance, 1958. Imports of gold jewelry are on open general license, but imports of gold 488 other than jewelry are subject to specific import licenses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce; such licenses are not normally issued except to the monetary authorities and authorized indus tr ial users. Exports of gold, whether jewelry or otherwise, are subject to specific export licen- ses issued by the Ministry of Industry and Com- merce; such licenses for gold other than jewelry are not normally granted except to the monetary authorities. Imports of unrefined gold are subject to import du ty at 5 per cent (preferential du ty) or 15 per cent (general d u t y ), and those of partly worked gold at 15 per cent (preferential d u t y) or 25 per cent (general d u t y ). They are free of purchase tax. Changes during 1969 During the year, a large number of imports were made subject to individual import license. March 3. The Central Bank increased its ex- change charge on sales of sterling and foreign cur- rencies from l/2 of 1 per cent to % of 1 per cent; the exchange charge on purchases of sterling and foreign currencies remained unchanged at y16 of 1 per cent. March 11. The Aliens (Landholding) Ordi- nance was modified so as to apply equally to all physical and jur id ical persons who are not nationals of Trinidad and Tobago. Henceforth, all such persons were required to obtain a license for holding land in Trinidad and Tobago, and to report the purposes for which such land was to be used. April 2. The Central Bank reduced its ex- change charge on sales of sterling and of for- eign currencies from 3A of 1 per cent to V* of 1 per cent, whereas the charge of y16 of 1 per cent on purchases of sterling and foreign currencies was abolished. The agreed exchange charge of commercial banks to customers was set at s/s of 1 per cent on sales and at no more than i/16 of 1 per cent on purchases. April 2. Limitations were imposed on commer- cial banks' liquid foreign assets. If on the fif- teenth day of any subsequent month a commercial bank's holdings of sterling and/or foreign curren- cies exceeded the amount held on April 2, 1969 (or the average amount held during an agreed period prior to that da te ), the bank must either ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution sell the excess to another commercial bank or the Central Bank, or pay the latter a penalty of l/2 of 1 per cent of the amount of the excess. r December 1. An intraregional settlements agree- ment between the central banks of Guyana, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago came into effect. December 1. The Central Bank commenced purchas ing and selling Guyana dollars and Jamaica dollars. TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO 489 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Exchange Rale System The par value is 1.69271 grams of fine gold per Tunisian Dinar or D 1 = US$1.90476. The rate of the d inar in relation to the French f r anc is fixed at D 1 = F 10.579409. Buy ing and selling rates for certain other convertible currencies are fixed daily by the Central Bank, usua l ly on the basis of the rates quoted on the Paris exchange marke t, i.e., by tak ing the average of the d i f f e r ent rates quoted in Paris and converting it in to d ina rs at the French f ranc /d inar exchange rate.1 The buy ing and selling rates of the authorized banks are identical w i th those of the Central Bank. The rate for the U.S. dollar for settlements under bilateral payments agreements is D 0.525 = US$1. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Cen- tral Bank of Tunisia, inc lud ing the au thor iza t ion of paymen ts for imports and invisibles; some au tho r i ty is delegated to the Directorate-General of External Finance or the authorized banks. Trade control is administered by the Trade Divi- sion of the Ministry of Commerce and Indus try, which establishes import quotas and issues import and export licenses. Both exchange control and import licensing are conducted w i th in the f r am e- work of an annu al foreign exchange budget. Prescription of Currency Tunisia is in the French Franc Area. For pay- ment purposes, countries are classified as fol- lows: ( 1) the French Franc Area countries ;- (2) the bilateral group, comprising countries w i th which Tunisia has concluded bilateral paymen ts agreements (Bu lga r ia, ma in land China, Czecho- slovakia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Ruman ia, the U.S.S.R., the United Arab Repub- lic, and Yugos lav ia); and ( 3) the area of con- 1 The Central Bank quotes buying and selling rates for the fo l low ing conve r t ib le currenc ies: A u s t r i an schil- l ings, Be lg ian f ranc s, Canad ian dollars, Danish k rone r, deutsche ma rk, Italian lire, Libyan pounds, Ne ther lands guilders, Norwegian kroner, pounds sterling, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kroner, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 France, the 14 countries whose institutes of issue ma in ta in an Operations Account with the French Treas- ury, and Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia. 490 ver t ib i l i ty, comprising all other countries.3 Set- tlements w i th countries in the French Franc Area are made in any currency of that Area; with countries in the bilateral group, in clearing dol- lars w i th Bu lga r ia (but see b e low ), Czechoslova- k ia, Eastern Germany, Hunga ry, Poland, Rum an i a, the Un i ted A rab Republic, and Yugo- slavia, in Tun is ian d ina rs w i th the U.S.S.R., and in Swiss agreement f rancs w i th m a in l and Ch ina; and w i th countries in the area of convertibility, gener- ally in convertible currencies quoted by the Central Bank (see footnote 1) or in Tunisian d ina rs through the accounts of residents of those coun- tries. Paymen ts for imports must normally be made, in accordance w i th the foregoing, on the basis of the country of origin; however, all imports shipped f rom other countries of the French Franc Area, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for in French francs. Certain com- mercial transactions with Bulgaria and Ind ia must be settled in Ind ian rupees. Payments to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa are prohib- ited. Nonresident Accounts The various types of nonresident accounts are as fo l lows: French Franc Area External Ac- counts (Comptes Extérieurs-Zone Franc or EZF Accounts) may be held by residents of other parts of the French Franc Area. These accounts are denom ina ted e i ther in dinars or in French francs. Those held in dinars may be credited free ly w i th proceeds from sales of French francs or other convertible currencies (see footnote 1 ); w i th transfers from other French Franc Area External Accounts; and with t rans fe rs from For- eign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected w i th in the French Franc Area. Accounts held in French francs may be credited freely with French francs transferred by a nonresident to the account holder; with proceeds in French francs from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies; and w i th the proceeds of checks and travelers checks payable either in French f rancs 3 The foreign area comprises the countries under (2) and (3 ). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution or in convertible currencies and cashed by the account holder. They may be debited freely for all settlements or transfers effected within the French Franc Area. French Franc Area Internal Accounts (Comptes Intérieurs-Zone Franc or IZF Accounts) may be held by physical persons who are residents of other parts of the French Franc Area but who are staying temporarily in Tunisia. These accounts are denominated in dinars. They may be credited freely with proceeds from sales of French francs or other convertible currencies; with transfers from other French Franc Area Internal Accounts held by the same person; with earnings, cash distributions under wills, amortiza- tion of securities, and proceeds from sales of Tunisian securities, provided that in all cases such funds accrue in Tunisia; and with repay- ments of loans granted from the same account. They may be debited freely for transfers to another French Franc Area Internal Account held by the same person; for living expenses in Tunisia of the holder and his fam i ly; for upkeep and supervision of his assets in Tunisia; for pur- chases in Tunisia, subject to certain conditions, of Tunisian securities; for purchases, subject to cer- tain conditions, of Tunisian short-term bonds and paper; and for loans in dinars to residents. Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars may be held by residents of countries in the area of convertibility. They may be credited freely with payments for authorized imports from these countries and with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies. They may be debited freely for payments of any kind to res- idents of Tunisia and for the purchase of foreign exchange from the Central Bank. Transfers between these accounts and from these accounts to French Franc Area External Accounts and to Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars may be held by residents of countries of the bilateral group. They may be credited freely w i th pay- ments for authorized imports from these coun- tries, with proceeds from sales to the Central Bank of convertible currencies, and with transfers from Foreign Accounts in Convertible Dinars. They may be debited freely for payments to resi- TUNISIA dents of Tunisia. Transfers between Foreign Accounts in Bilateral Dinars related to the same country may also be made freely. Foreign Accounts in Foreign Currencies are used ma in ly by foreign embassies and by certain nonresident business enterprises in anticipation of investment in Tunisia; funds in these accounts may at any t ime be transferred to the coun try of origin. Capital Accounts may be held by residents of any country (including countries of the French Franc Area). The opening of a Capital Account by a nonresident of Tunisian nationality must be authorized by the Central Bank. Foreign banks may also hold Capital Accounts. Capital Accounts may be credited with the proceeds of liquidation of foreign investments and other assets with debt repayments and amortization of contractual obligations not covered by a retrans- fer guarantee, with any assets in excess of bank balances up to D 3,500 owned by foreign nation- als leaving Tunisia permanently, and with the sales proceeds of agricultural property belonging to nonresidents of French nationality. These accounts may be debited for the purchase of Tunisian securities, participations in companies, real estate, and business concerns; the settlement of expenses arising in connection with the admin- istration of nontransferable foreign assets, as well as personal expenses of the initial account holder; taxes payable by the account holder; and the granting of credits to residents. Accounts held by residents of countries outside the French Franc Area may not be debited for personal expenses without authorization, while those held by resi- dents of the French Franc Area may be debited freely for the personal expenses of the account holder and of his family up to D 25 a person a week, subject to a limit of D 500 for each account a year. Some of the above operations may be made freely through the intermediary of authorized banks, while certain others (e.g., debits resulting from the purchase of business concerns or securities not admitted to the Tunisian stock exchange and all credits not relating to real estate transactions) require the authorization of the Central Bank. Transfers may be made freely between Capital Accounts of countries in the area of convertibility, between those of countries in the French Franc Area, and between those 491 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA related to the same country in the bilateral group, or from the first-mentioned group to those in the other groups. Internal Accounts of Nonresidents are intended mainly for foreigners staying temporarily in Tuni- sia and ga in fu l ly employed there; the opening of these accounts requires the approval of the Cen- tral Bank. Suspense Accounts are used for the purpose of crediting all proceeds accruing to nonresidents in Tunisia which may not be credited to other non- resident accounts either in accordance with a gen- eral or an ind iv idual license of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Suspense Accounts may be debited without the prior authorization of the Central Bank in respect of purchases of Tun is ian securi- ties, subscriptions to issues of short-term deben- tures or bonds, paymen ts to the Tunisian Gov- ernment or public institutions, and settlement of living expenses incurred in Tunisia by the ac- count holder (provided that he is a resident of the French Franc A rea) or his fam i ly up to D 25 a person a week and not exceeding D 500 a year for any one family. All other debits to these accounts require the ind iv idual authorization of the Central Bank of Tunisia. Savings Accounts in Foreign Currency may be maintained with the Postal Administration in the names of Tunisian nationals who are working abroad. These accounts may be credited with the countervalue of a portion of the holder's foreign currency earnings. They may be debited freely. Imports and Import Payments Imports of some 70 goods from any country (including France and other countries of the French Franc Area) are "prohibited," but may be authorized by individual license. All imports from Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. All import contracts must, before signing, be submitted for prior approval (avis technique) to a government agency, the Service de la Tutelle. The prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry is required for all imports, irrespective of origin, that are financed with suppliers' credit. Certain commodities are imported under state trading. These include goods subject to govern- 492 ment monopolies, e.g., tobacco, matches, playing cards, and imports from the United States under P.L. 480. In addition, certain government agen- cies, of which the main one is the Office du Commerce, are granted a monopoly over the import of commodities falling within their sphere of activity (coffee, tea, sugar, specified fru i ts, e tc .). Moreover, certain commodities, such as timber, paper, and certain metallurgical products, may be imported only by importers who are members of an importers' association. Imports by such associations and by state agencies are sub- ject to the same licensing arrangements as those applicable to private imports. Apart from the "prohibited" imports, imports originating in France or other countries of the French Franc Area do not, in principle, require import licenses. The following, which are subject to quantitative restrictions, require individual import licenses, however: (1) imports of some 25 commodities or groups of commodities that are subject to global quotas applicable to all countries, (2) imports of commodities for which bilateral quotas have been agreed with countries outside the French Franc Area,4 and (3) imports from France of goods listed in Notice No. 107 of December 9, 1969 (i.e., goods of Lists 3, 4, and 5 of Annex 3 to the Agreement of Association with the EEC) and of goods for which global quotas for EEC countries have been established. Payments for imports from France or other countries of the French Franc Area must have prior authorization from the Central Bank; a payments application must be submitted through an authorized bank before purchase con- tracts are entered into. Such authorization (auto- risation de transfert, modèle X2) is always granted. When applying for permission to make these payments, importers must declare "on their honor" that they do not have in the French Franc Area financial resources which could be used for this purpose. Import licenses for nonliberalized goods from countries outside the French Franc Area require the prior approval (avis technique) of the com- petent ministry; the prior approval (visa) of the 4 These countries include most European OECD coun- tries, in addition to the countries with which payments agreements are in force (see section on Prescription of Currency, above). ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Central Bank is required for making the corre- sponding import payment. Excluding "prohibited" imports, the import licensing system as applied to countries outside the French Franc Area with which Tunisia does not have bilateral payments arrangements distinguishes between (1) liberal- ized goods, for which licenses, in principle, are granted automatically; (2) goods subject to global quotas, which may be imported from any country; ( 3) goods subject to global quotas valid for EEC countries only; and (4) goods admitted under quotas established in bilateral trade agree- ments. The free list does not apply to payments agreement countries. Save in exceptional circum- stances, licenses for goods not included in the free list, the two global quota lists, or the "pro- hibited" list are reserved for countries w i th which bilateral trade agreements are in force. Under an "urgency procedure," imports from any source of certain spare parts and some other items by hold- ers of an "importer's card" are free of license up to D 500 a year for each importer. All imports from countries with which there are bilateral pay- ments agreements require individual licenses. Licenses are granted on the basis of global quotas or bilateral quotas, where such quotas exist. In some cases, private compensation transactions are approved. To obtain an import license, importers must be listed in the commercial register and must have received a code number. All import documents involving payments must be domiciled (registered) with an authorized bank. Import taxes of 10, 15, and 20 per cent apply to 300 tariff items; certain essential items, viz., milk, dairy products, and pharmaceuticals, are exempt. These taxes are applied on the c.i.f. value plus customs duties, and are in addition to duties. There are also some other import taxes. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles require the approval of the Central Bank; for some invisibles this authority has been delegated to the author- ized banks. Provided that appropriate documenta- tion is submitted, approval is given for payments for certain current transactions, including remit- tances of profits, dividends, and interest due to nonresidents. Payments for such items as business travel and family maintenance are approved up to certain limits; in addition, exporters and hotel TUNISIA owners holding balances on EFAC accounts (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, below) may use these freely for business travel and pub- licity expenditures abroad. Foreigners employed in Tunisia may remit abroad up to 50 per cent of their monthly salary, subject to a maximum of D 100 a month if their fam i ly lives in Tunisia or D 150 a month if they do not have their family w i th them. Other payments are more severely restricted. Residents of Tunisia traveling abroad as tourists are entitled once a year to an exchange allocation equivalent to D 50 (D 25 for children under 10). The allocation may be taken in the form of foreign banknotes. The export of foreign banknotes is subject to authorization by the Central Bank. The export of Tunisian bank- notes is prohibited. The reconversion of domestic banknotes by nonresident travelers is restricted to D 2 0. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Israel, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Exports to other parts of the French Franc Area and liberalized exports not exceeding D 50 to other countries do not require a license. All other exports require export licenses. For all exports, exporters must give undertakings to repatriate the exchange pro- ceeds; the repatriation must ordinarily take place w i th in 15 days from the date payment is due, and, in any event, within 100 days from the date of shipment unless otherwise allowed by the Cen- tral Bank. Exporters and hotel owners may have credited to special EFAC (Exportations-Frais Accessoires) accounts the equivalent in dinars of a part of their export proceeds, viz., 2 per cent for a cash sale and 1 per cent for a sale on credit. Such accounts may be maintained in con- vertible or bilateral dinars, depending on the cur- rency surrendered. Balances in EFAC accounts may be used freely for business travel and public- ity expenses abroad. Any balance in excess of D 1,000 must be surrendered. A special tax of 10 per cent is levied on exports of olive oil (except olive oil in containers of 1 kilogram or less), salt, and cork, and a tax of 15 per cent on specified calcium phosphates and superphosphates. A tax of 5 per cent is applied to metallurgical ores and scrap iron. 493 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Proceeds from Invisibles Residents must repatriate and surrender all amounts derived from services rendered to per- sons resident abroad, inc lud ing residents of the French Franc Area, and also all other income or proceeds from invisibles received from coun- tries outside the French Franc Area. However, Tun is ian nationals who are work ing abroad may retain the countervalue of a portion of their foreign currency earnings in convertible d inar accounts. Foreign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) may be brought in freely. The import of Tun is ian banknotes is prohibited. Capital All nonresidents, including residents of other countries of the French Franc Area, who wish to invest in Tunisia are required to obtain the prior approval of the Tun is ian au tho r i t ies in order to secure the guaran tee for the transfer of principal of, and current earnings f rom, such investments. Foreign investment in Tunisia may obtain cer- ta in benefits provided for by the Inves tment Code (Law No. 69-35) of June 26, 1969. These include a guarantee of the r ight to repatriate cap- ital and t rans fer profits. All foreign nationals who have been residents of Tunisia may convert their bank balances up to D 3,500 into foreign exchange upon leaving Tu- nisia pe rmanen t ly; amoun ts in excess of this l im it are credited to Capital Accounts, as are inher i t- ances received a f ter the depar ture of the benefici- ary. Proceeds f rom the liquidation of non t rans fe r- able foreign assets (e.g., real estate) must also be credited to Capital Accounts. All capital t rans fe rs by Tun is ian nationals require the approval of the Central Bank. The purchase by Tunisian residents of foreign securi- ties on foreign stock exchanges is, in principle, forb idden; in some instances, authorization is granted for a resident to subscribe abroad to a share issued by an enterprise in wh ich he is already a shareholder. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Tunisia for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the mone tary 494 authorities and authorized indus tr ial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. By v i r tue of Law No. 63-46 of December 19, 1963, the Cen- tral Bank has a monopoly over the impo rt of gold in any form other than jewe lry and over the sale of unworked gold to domestic industrial users, jewelers, hand ic ra ft workers, and dentists. Exports of gold in any form other than jewe lry requ ire licenses issued by the Central Bank; such licenses are not normally granted. Changes during 1969 March 10. A trilateral trade arrangement was signed w i th the State Trading Corporation of India and a Bulgarian trade organization. All paymen ts under this arrangement would take place in nonconvertible Ind ian rupees. March 31. An Agreement of Association with the European Economic Community was signed. It entered into force on September 1. May 1. Tunisian nationals working abroad were permitted to open convertible dinar accounts as savings accounts on which they could retain the countervalue of a portion of their for- eign currency earnings. June 10. The global import quotas for 1969 were announced. June 26. Law No. 69-35 containing an Invest- ment Code was enacted. August 11. The fixed exchange rate for the French f ranc was changed from D 1 = F 9.4039 to D 1 = F 10.579409. The fixed exchange rates for CFA francs, the Mali f ranc, and the Mala- gasy f ranc were adjusted accordingly. August 15. Import duties on specified goods of French origin were reduced considerably. August 15. The quotas for the calendar year 1969 were published for those goods of French origin that were subject to a bilateral quota. August 29. An "importer's card" was intro- duced which allowed the holder to import w i th- out an import license up to D 500 a year of specified essential goods from any country. September 5. Notice No. 105 required, with effect f rom September 1, an import license for all commodities listed in List 3 of Annex 3 to the ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TUNISIA Association Agreement with the EEC when these goods were of French origin. October 28. Notice No. 106 was published. It contained a revised list of commodities whose importation was liberalized from all sources other than payments agreement countries and countries with which Tunisia does not ma in ta in commercial relations. When imported from France, these goods required only a transfer authorization "X2" issued by the Central Bank; when imported from other countries, they required an import license. October 28. Global quotas were published for imports from EEC countries during the period September 1-December 31, 1969. The special quotas valid only for imports from France were discontinued. December 9. Notice No. 107 amended Notice No. 105. The requirement of an import license was extended to goods in Lists 4 and 5 of Annex 3 to the Association Agreement. December 31. The payments agreement with Yugoslavia was terminated with effect from January 1, 1970. 495 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0987412 gram of fine gold per Turkish Lira or LT 9.00 = US$1. The official rates are LT 9.00 buying, and LT 9.08 selling, per US$1. Official rates for other curren- cies are established by the Central Bank of Turkey on the basis of the par value of the other currency concerned. A tax of 50 per cent (m in i- mum LT 500) is levied on foreign exchange pur- chased for most travel purposes, including the cost of transpor ta t ion. Remittances by Turkish workers abroad are converted at the par value; when the Turkish lira equ iva lent is credited to an account at a bank in Turkey, the account is immed ia te ly credited w i th an additional 33 V6 per cent of the amount converted. The cost of this additional paymen t, representing three years' interest at 11 .11 per cent per annum, is borne by the government budget. The resulting effective rate is LT 12 per US$1. A prem ium of 33 Va per cent is paid on the amount of specified converti- ble currencies * exchanged by tourists and other nonresidents in Turkey for local currency, result- ing also in an effective rate of LT 12 per US$1. A p rem ium of 25 per cent, resulting in an effec- tive exchange rate of LT 11.25 per US$1, is applied to purchases of convertible currencies acquired by residents in respect of air or road transport. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Minis- try of Finance. Import programs are prepared by the Ministry of Commerce in conjunction with the M in is t ry of Finance and in consultation with the Central Bank and other interested institutions. The selection of permitted imports and the deter- mination as to whether they should be admitted free of restriction or under quan t i ta t ive limitation is the responsibility of the Ministry of Commerce. Foreign exchange is mainly allocated by the Cen- tral Bank; however, for some categories of imports under quotas, the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry or the appropriate minis- try make allocations. Certain foreign exchange allocations for imports require the prior approval of the competent ministry, primarily for public secur i ty, agr icu l tura l, or health reasons, even if an import license has been obtained or the com- mod i ty is on the liberalized list. The Central Bank issues import licenses, and the Ministry of Commerce issues export licenses. Import and export licenses for gold, however, are issued by the M in i s t ry of Finance. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements 2 are made in accordance with the terms of the relevant agree- ment. Certain commercial settlements with the o ther members of the Regional Cooperation for Development ( I ran and Pakistan) are made through special accounts denominated in U.S. dollars. Settlements with other countries are made in convertible currencies; exceptionally, however, exports of certain goods and services to specified coun tr ies may be settled in Turkish liras released under debt l iqu ida t ion agreements from blocked balances. Imports and Import Payments Imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. All commercial imports require import licenses, which are valid for six months, and, generally, goods must be cleared through the customs w i th in four months. Import licenses are issued to registered importers (import me rchan ts ), indus- trialists (manu fac tu re rs importing for their own needs ), state economic enterprises, and govern- ment departments. Private individuals and corpo- rate bodies are required to secure an "importer's certificate" before submitting applications through the authorized banks for licenses to import goods for commercial purposes. However, exporters, operators of m in ing undertakings and tourist 1 These currencies are Austrian schillings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche ma rk, French francs, I ta l ian lire, Ne the r lands guilders, Nor- wegian kroner, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany (an agreement between the Chambers of Commerce), Hung a ry, Poland, Rum an i a, U.S.S.R., United Arab Re- pub l ic, and Yugoslavia. Payments with Portugal are channeled through a special account, but Portugal is not considered a bilateral country. 496 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution establishments, and industrialists are not required to secure an "importer's certificate" for imports to be used exclusively for their own needs. Most goods are imported in accordance with the provisions of import programs, which are planned for a year. The import programs, which include commodities financed with funds from the U.S. Agency for International Development (A ID ), classify imports in two categories: ( 1) an annual list of liberalized goods, consisting of two parts (Lists I and I I ), for which import licenses are issued freely; and (2) a semiannual list of goods subject to global quotas. Imports of goods that do not appear on either of these lists are prohibited; certain of these commodities, however, may be imported when specifically authorized by the relevant ministry or by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry. The list of liberalized goods and the list of global quotas apply, in principle, only to imports from countries other than those with which Turkey has bilateral payments agreements; goods not included in either of these two import lists may not be imported under the bilateral quotas. For some goods on the liberalization and global quota lists, importers have the option of applying for exchange allocations from U.S. AID funds; there are no goods on these lists, however, that may be imported only with U.S. AID funds and only from the United States. An over-all foreign exchange allocation is set aside by the Central Bank for imports of goods on the liberalization list. Applications for import licenses for goods on this list may be submitted through authorized banks at any time during the validity of the list; these banks prepare the import licenses and forward them to the Central Bank for approval. For certain liberalized goods, the prior approval of the ministry concerned is also required. Under liberalization List I, there are special arrangements administered by the Ministry of Commerce to facilitate priority allo- cation of foreign exchange for imports of raw materials and supplementary materials required for export production.3 3 Goods sold in Turkey against payment in convertible currency are treated as exports in th is context. The amount of foreign exchange allocated under this quota may not exceed 50 per cent of projected export proceeds. TURKEY Allocations under the global quota list are divided into two broad subquotas, for registered importers and for industrialists. Allocations for imports on the global quota list are made by the Central Bank, by one of several ministries, or by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Indus- t ry, w i th in quantitative limits established for each quo ta item. In principle, quotas for importers are allocated by the Central Bank on a pro rata basis, but for some items the prior approval of the m in is t ry concerned is also required. Applica- tions for these quotas must be made through an authorized bank within one month of the date of publication of the quota list. No single importer may apply for more than 20 per cent of the quota set for any particular commodity. Appli- cants are notified of allocations made by the Cen- tral Bank through the authorized banks. Within two mon ths of receiving notice of an allocation, the importer must apply for an import license through an authorized bank. Quotas for industri- alists are allocated by the Union of Chambers of Commerce and Industry or the Ministry of Indus- try on the basis of such criteria as capacity, ou tpu t, and previous performance. After the applicant has secured an allocation (i.e., has been issued a "certificate of need"), he must apply through an authorized bank to the Central Bank for an import license within three months, and no later than one month from the expiration date of the quota list. Some quotas, irrespective of the category (either importers' or industrialists') in which they are included, are allocated by particu- lar authorities, for example, the Ministries of Agriculture, Commerce, Finance, Industry, or Health and Welfare; after securing an allocation under these quotas, the applicant must follow the procedure for imports under industrialists' quotas. The import license permits the necessary for- eign exchange payment to be made, but foreign currency for many imports is made available after a certain delay. Payments for imports may be made against a letter of credit, documents, or goods. However, for liberalized imports and those financed from U.S. AID funds, payment may be made only against a letter of credit. When the payment is to be made against a letter of credit, registered importers and industrialists are required to prepay in local currency the equiva- lent of the foreign exchange applied for. For 497 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY payments against documents or goods for global quota list imports, importers and industrialists are required to pay the f u ll value of the import and make the foreign exchange transfer within five mon ths from the date of the import license for paymen ts against documents and within one month f rom the date of customs clearance for payments against goods. The delays in the alloca- tion of foreign exchange imply that prepayments may remain blocked for as much as eight months. Imports from bilateral agreement countries are subject to separate quotas. These are established only for commodities that appear on the liberali- zation or global quota lists. The import licensing procedure for goods from these countries is the same as for imports under global quotas, except that applications under the bilateral quotas speci- fied in each agreement must be made within one mon th of publication of the quota. Guaran tee deposits for imports, whether financed from U.S. AID funds or not, are pay- able in advance, generally as follows: for goods on liberalization List I, 90 per cent of the value of the merchand ise is payable,4 and on List II, 120 per c e n t ;r> for imports under global quotas or bilateral quotas, 50 per cent of the va lue of the import application is payable by importers, and 20 per cent by indus t r ia l is ts and export manufac- turers, at the t ime application to import is made. Guaran tee deposits are payable irrespective of the method of payment employed. The public sector is exempt, however, and in many cases industrial- ists make a symbolic deposit of 1 per cent (on imports under inves tment quotas set aside for their use and applicable to convertible currency countries o n l y ). The deposit remains blocked until the goods have been imported and the for- eign supplier paid; it is then refunded to the importer. The guarantee deposit required for applications to the special exporters' quota estab- lished to meet import needs of priority export industries is refunded to export manufac turers when the products concerned are exported. For imports to be financed from U.S. AID funds, a guarantee payment of 10 per cent not to exceed LT 100,000 is payable for imports of the public sector other than central government agen- cies, irrespective of whether the goods are included in the liberalization list or the quota list. Impor ts w i thout an allocation of foreign exchange may be perm i t ted by the customs authorities, the Central Bank, or the Ministry of Finance under certain conditions. Private persons and legal entities may import freely commodities for personal or family use with a l im it of LT 500 for each sh ipmen t; residents may import freely unused goods on the liberalization list w i thout ob ta in ing any allocation of foreign exchange, pro- vided that they hold an import pe rm it from the Central Bank. In addition to personal effects, fore ign tourists may import goods and mach inery for their personal or family use. For Turkish residents r e tu rn ing from work ing abroad, such imports may amount to LT 10,000 in total value, provided that the goods in question are for use in the ir profession, that they have worked abroad for at least two years, and that the goods are in- cluded in the global quota list. Persons a r r iv ing in Tu rkey are permitted to import as personal effects commodities (exc lud ing cars, motorcycles, and bicycles with motors) up to a value of LT 1,000.6 Turk ish na t iona ls re tu rn ing to Tu rkey a f ter spending at least one year abroad and for- eigners en te r ing Turkey to become residents may im p o rt the ir used household goods. Imports with- out an allocation of foreign exchange by specified imm ig ran ts are l im i ted to commodities included e i ther in the l ibera l iza t ion list or in the quota list; no license for a commodity in the quota list may exceed 20 per cent of the current quota for that i tem or the equ iva lent of US$10,000, whichever is lower. Residents temporar i ly working abroad who combine to form a company to operate in Turkey are perm i t ted to import investment goods under M in i s t ry of Finance quotas, against remittances in foreign exchange. Turkish nationals employed abroad may obtain import licenses for machinery and certain other commodities valued at up to US$10,000 for use in their profession on return, provided that dur ing a two-year period they 4 For fertilizers the ra t io is 20 per cent. 5 For parts and components of motor vehicles the ratio is 150 per cent. 6 Under this rule, commodities that are subject to customs d u ty cannot be imported by residents if foreign exchange has been allocated to them for tourism or medical treatment purposes. 498 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution transferred to Turkey each month at least US$25 but not more than US$125 and provided that they undertake to ma in ta in permanent residence in Turkey. Foreign contractors may import machinery, vehicles, and scientific instruments without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, pro- vided that the goods are proved to be necessary for their operations in Turkey and may not be imported on a temporary basis under the relevant customs regulations. Foreign companies estab- lished in Turkey may import spare parts not intended for new investments, without requesting an allocation of foreign exchange, provided that the goods are necessary for their operations. All such imports require the permission of the exchange control authorities. Goods imported on these terms must not be sold to third parties in Turkey. Turkish residents who have remained abroad for more than one year may import automo- biles,7 provided that each individual has owned and operated the vehicle for a period of at least six months prior to his return, that the automo- bile was not more than three years old at the time of acquisition, and that it does not exceed 1,600 kilograms in weight.8 The earnings of persons who travel abroad on official business on a tem- porary basis for periods of less than one year are considered as savings when these earnings are in excess of US$300 monthly. Such persons may import an automobile registered in their names abroad, provided that over a three-year period the individual's savings amount to at least US$1,000. Personal effects of persons entering Turkey are exempt from customs duty, while all other imports without an allocation of foreign exchange are subject to the payment of customs duty. Automobiles imported w i thout a foreign ex- change allocation may be sold to residents by the Turkish nationals who have imported them. Foreign diplomats in Turkey may sell their auto- mobiles to Turkish residents freely, provided that the necessary import duties are paid at the time 7 Automobiles are not included in the import program. 8 Persons who have been abroad for tourism, medical treatment, training, or business purposes cannot benefit from this provision. TURKEY of the sale, that Turkish diplomats in the seller's country are granted reciprocal privileges, and that proceeds from such sales are not transferred abroad. Foreign officials other than diplomats may not sell to Turkish nationals any automo- biles imported duty-free under special agree- ments. Other foreign nationals resident in Turkey may import automobiles under certain conditions, but they must be exported after three years. This three-year period, however, may be extended. Also, the Ministry of Finance may permit the sale of such cars to the State Supply Office or to nonprofit organizations. With these exceptions, automobiles and any other commodities that have been imported duty-free may be sold freely to residents. In addition to customs duty, imported goods are subject to the following charges: (1) a cus- toms surcharge of 15 per cent of the applicable customs du ty; (2) a stamp duty of 25 per cent of the declared value; (3) a quay duty of 5 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs surcharge, stamp du ty, and customs clearance expenses; and (4) a production tax ranging gen- erally from 10 per cent to 25 per cent on the sum of c.i.f. value, customs duty, customs sur- charge, stamp duty, customs clearing expenses, and quay du ty. The quay du ty is not payable on goods imported by air. The rate of stamp duty is 100 per cent for commodities covered by Arti- cle 2 of Law 828, as amended by Article 36 of Law 1137. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles require exchange licen- ses which usually are issued by the Central Bank. These are granted liberally for the following pur- poses, provided that applications are accompa- nied by specified documents: payments related to trade (including shipping costs), subscriptions to newspapers and periodicals, purchases of books, payments for registration fees, advertising expen- ses, consulate income, payments by the Govern- ment, payments by the Post Office Administration and similar state institutions, banks' commissions and expenses, a proportion of insurance compa- nies' payments, specified technical assistance, repair and assembly expenses, and legal fees for commercial transactions. The transfer of income related to approved foreign investments is permit- 499 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY ted freely. Interest on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey ( inc lud ing those of an agricultural character) may be granted transferability between foreign nationals both in Turkey and abroad. Turkish citizens are not allowed to leave the country without having obtained an allocation of exchange for travel, but this does not apply to foreign nationals residing in Turkey. Tourist travel is restricted to one trip a person a year, except for travel to Cyprus. The allowance of exchange for tourist travel is the equivalent of US$200 a calendar year and travelers are not allowed to leave the country unless they are carrying that amount in foreign exchange (US$110 for persons under 18 years of age, the purchase of this amount not being manda to ry ). Turkish citizens traveling to Cyprus may obtain an exchange allocation equivalent to up to US$200 on request; this does not affect their right to claim the tourist travel allowance. Exchange for business travel is granted within the limits of annual quotas, which vary according to the taxable income of the applicant firm. For exporting companies, the limit is related to their export proceeds. Exchange for travel abroad for other purposes (e.g., education, participation in international meetings, fa irs, athletic meets, etc., and personal business) is sold up to specified limits. In addition, persons who can certify that it is necessary for them to travel abroad for medical treatment may purchase the necessary foreign exchange. With certain exceptions, of which the ma in one is travel for reasons of health, a tax of 50 per cent (m in imum LT 500) is payable on all exchange purchased for travel abroad, on the purchase of tickets for foreign travel, and on bag- gage charges. The LT 500 m in imum is not appli- cable to Turkish citizens leaving to work abroad. Travelers are permitted to take out LT 100 in Turkish banknotes and coins. Nonresidents may take out without any restriction the unspent por- tion of the foreign exchange which they brought in. Nonresident travelers who wish to reconvert Turkish liras into foreign currency when leaving the country are required to present a document showing that foreign exchange had previously been sold to an authorized dealer in Turkey. 500 Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Most ex- ports are free of license, but a few commodities require an export license, either in order to pre- vent re-export or to assure adequate supplies for the domestic ma rke t. Exports not payable in con- vertible currencies are subject to licenses and to export quotas. Exporters are required to sell to a bank in Turkey the foreign exchange proceeds of goods exported within three months from the date of export or within ten days from the date on which the foreign exchange is placed at their disposal. Under an export tax rebate scheme, direct and indirect taxes paid are refunded when manufac- tures or processed products are exported. Proceeds from Invisibles Specified convertible currencies (see footnote 1) exchanged by foreign tourists for local currency benefit from an advance refund of consump- tion and indirect taxes; the refund amounts to 33l/3 per cent of the official exchange rate. Firms or individuals not in the category of authorized institutions cannot accept more than the equ iva lent of US$100 from foreign tourists and are required to surrender any exchange earn- ings in the form of foreign banknotes and travel- ers checks to an authorized bank within ten days. Otherwise, foreign exchange accruing to residents for services rendered by them to nonresidents must be surrendered to an authorized exchange dealer within three months from the date on which the service was rendered or within ten days from the date of acquisition of the exchange. Rem i t tances from Turkish workers abroad must be converted at the par value. When the Turkish lira equivalent is credited to a bank account in Tu rkey, an additional amount of 33Va per cent is immediately credited to the account representing three years' interest at 11.11 per cent per annum; the amounts deposited plus the interest can be w i thd rawn at any time.9 Convertible currencies acquired at home or abroad from air or road transport services may be sold for liras at a prem ium of 25 per cent. Foreign travelers wish- !> Foreign na t iona ls in Turkey and Turkish workers abroad may open convertible lira accounts in Turkish banks. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing to take out articles of a value exceeding LT 2,000 must show proof that they have con- verted foreign exchange to cover the portion of the cost exceeding this limit. The import of Turkish banknotes and coins by travelers (whether of Turkish or foreign national- i t y) is limited to LT 100. The import of foreign currency by travelers is unrestricted. Capital Foreign investments in Turkey require ap- proval. Capital transfers abroad by residents and capital transactions between residents and nonresidents are subject to the approval of the exchange control authorities. Residents are not normally permitted to acquire foreign securities or real estate. With the exception of certain investments made in accordance with the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments or the Petroleum Law, foreign companies and contractors who wish to do business in Turkey must import the required capital and operating funds in the form of foreign exchange, although under certain con- ditions blocked funds may be used for investment in the tourist industry. Borrowing in Turkish liras by such foreign companies and contractors is subject to quotas set by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with their equity capital in Turkey. Except for approved investments, nonresidents may not convert into foreign currency any assets or balances owned by them, or earnings accruing to them; all earnings are blocked but if, at the end of the calendar year, such earnings are less than LT 5,000, the amount involved is deblocked. Subject to individual permission, blocked assets and balances may be utilized within Turkey, e.g., for the payment of taxes, insurance, and maintenance and repair of prop- erty; and for living expenses of up to LT 4,500 a month for each beneficiary for owners of such funds or their authorized representatives, and up to LT 2,500 for certain relatives. They may not, however, be utilized as business capital except for investment in the tourist industry. Normally, such blocked funds may not be transferred to others except by legal succession. The investment of blocked funds in the tourist industry is subject to the following conditions: (1) there must be a TURKEY contribution in new foreign exchange or imported equ ipment equal to at least 50 per cent of the blocked funds to be used and (2) the investor must under take not to request transfer for at least five years of that part of the capital financed by means of the blocked funds. Blocked funds used in th is manner are considered as foreign capital imported under the Law to Encourage Foreign Investments. Balances on nonresident accounts established at the Central Bank in accordance with the Paris Agreement on Commercial Debts Owed by Resi- dents of Turkey (1959) may be used either par- tially or wholly by the creditors for investment or to pay expenses in Turkey at any time prior to the date, established under the Agreement, when the balances may be transferred. The use of these balances for investment purposes is subject to the provisions of the Law to Encourage Foreign Inves tmen ts. However, invested funds and income related thereto may not be transferred abroad before the t rans fer date established under the Agreement, except for investment in the export industry or in other industries earning foreign exchange; in such instances the equivalent of up to 25 per cent of the investment may be trans- ferred annua l ly. Foreign capital invested in Turkey under the te rms of the Law to Encourage Foreign Invest- men ts is accorded preferential treatment, pro- vided that the enterprise in which the investment is to be made is deemed to contribute to the eco- nomic development of the country, or will oper- ate in a field of activity open to Turkish private enterprise and will not entail monopoly or special privilege. Under this law, all or part of the invested capital or foreign loans may be remitted abroad in the original currency of the capital. Upon application, the Ministry of Finance guar- antees the transfer of dividends and of the pro- ceeds from the sale or liquidation of shares or stock certificates registered on the books of com- panies established under the law. Such registered shares or stock certificates are freely transferable between foreign nationals, both in Turkey and abroad, and between foreign nationals and resi- dents. The transfer guarantees pass on to the new owner, provided that his name is notified to the Ministry of Finance; if the shares or stock certifi- cates are sold to a resident, however, they must 501 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution TURKEY be presented to the Ministry of Finance for can- cellation of the guarantees. The capital and inter- est on long-term loans and credits extended by nonresidents to enterprises in Turkey (including those of an agricultural charac ter) may be accorded the same t rans fer benefits. Foreign capi- tal imported under the Petroleum Law is ac- corded additional preferen t ial trea tmen t. Transactions in securities, including their export and import, require approval when non- resident interests are involved. Gold Residents may hold and acqu ire gold coins in Turkey for numismatic purposes. With this ex- ception, residents other than the mone tary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad; any unworked gold held in Turkey, however, may be presented for m i n t i ng by the State M in t. Imports and exports of gold in any fo rm other than jewelry require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and indu s t r ial users. Changes during 1969 January 4. The import regulations for 1969 were announced. They were virtually identical with those for 1968. The liberalization lists, how- ever, would remain valid the en t ire year, while the quota lists were applicable to the first six months only. Also, the guarantee deposits for lib- eralization List I were raised from 70 per cent to 90 per cent, those for liberalization List II from 100 per cent to 120 per cent, and those for the quota list from 30 per cent to 50 per cent or from 10 per cent to 20 per cent. One quarter of the guarantee deposits received by the Central Bank was to be made available to assist export financing. March 31. The rate of stamp du ty on imports was raised f rom 15 per cent ad valorem to 25 per cent. A rate of 100 per cent was applied to cer ta in impor ts that were brought into customs warehouses but could not be cleared under the ex is t ing foreign trade regulations. May 31. The bilateral payments agreement w i th Israel was term ina ted. July 4. Under the twenty-third import pro- gram, the l im it on quota imports in the second half of 1969 was set at US$113 million, lower by US$20 million than in the comparable period of 1968. All l u x u ry goods and some products that can now be produced in Turkey were removed from the quota list and henceforth could be b rought in only as personal imports or gifts. October 26. Decree No. 6/12584 came into force. The Central Bank's purchases of all foreign currencies in connection with tourist expenses were to be made at the rate of LT 12 per US$1. Previously, th is rate was only applicable to pur- chases of convertible foreign currencies. Converti- ble currencies acquired at home or abroad in respect of air or road transport could be sold for liras at a 25 per cent premium. The resulting exchange rate was LT 11.25 per US$1. October 28. A communiqué of the Ministry of Finance was published specifying that only 13 convertible currencies could be converted by for- eign tourists at LT 12 per US$1. November 10. The acceptance of applications for imports on the liberalized list was stopped for the rema inder of 1969. It was announced that all imports of luxu ry goods would henceforth be prohibited. December 10. It was announced that with effect from Janua ry 1, 1970 all gold dealers would require a license issued by the Ministry of Finance, all gold sales would require registration, and the Mint's charges for the minting of gold coins would be raised. 502 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.124414 gram of fine gold per Uganda Shilling or U Sh 7.14286 = US$1. There is a fixed relationship between the Uganda shilling and the pound sterling of <£ 1 = U Sh 17.1429. Kenya shillings and Tanzan ia shil- lings may be exchanged into Uganda shillings at par at commercial banks or at the Bank of Uganda. East African shillings (which have ceased to be legal tende r) issued by the East Afr ican Cur- rency Board may also be exchanged at par. In transactions equivalent to at least <£ stg. 5,000 with the public, the Bank of Uganda stands ready to issue Uganda shillings in exchange for sterling and to supply sterling in exchange for Uganda shillings; the official limits for the buy ing and selling rates for sterling d i f fer from the rate of <£! = U Sh 17.1429 by Vs and l/2 per cent, respectively. The Bank deals with its banking customers and, for large transactions, with the public at rates between the official limits. In transactions covering smaller amounts, the public has to deal through the authorized banks. The buy ing and selling rates for such transactions are at present within the official limits. The Bank does not deal in foreign currencies 1 other than sterling, U.S. dollars, and deutsche mark. Banks in Uganda base their rates for such currencies on the current market rates in London. They may freely deal forward with customers in sterling and U.S. dollars, provided that there is an under ly ing import or export contract and that the term of the forward contract does not exceed three months. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Uganda on behalf of the Minister of Finance. Au thor i ty for approving normal import payments, many payments in respect of current invisibles, and some capital payments to countries other than Kenya and Tanzania is delegated to the authorized banks. Import and export control is administered by the M in is try of Commerce and Industry under the External Trade Act. The M in is try of Com- merce and Industry has powers to prohibit imports and exports. The issuing of import and export licenses has been delegated to certain officers of that M in is try. Applications should be subm i t ted by the importer or exporter in Uganda before orders are placed abroad or exports are shipped. Applications for import licenses are examined by the Import Licensing Board, which is chaired by the Minister of Commerce and Indus try or a person nominated by him. The National Trading Corporation has the sole distri- bu t ion right for specified basic commodities. Together with Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda is part of the East A f r ican currency area. Payments f rom Uganda to Kenya and Tanzania are free of restrictions. Prescription of Currency Uganda is a member of the Sterling Area and ma in ta ins prescription of currency requirements similar to those of the United Kingdom; all settle- ments w i th Kenya and Tanzania, however, must be effected in East African currency.2 Payments to residents of countries in the Sterling Area other than Kenya, Tanzania, and South Africa may be made in Uganda shillings to the credit of a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency; receipts from such countries must be obtained in Uganda shillings from a Sterling Area Account in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area currency. Authorized payments, including payments for imports, by residents of Uganda to residents of countries out- side the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling to an External Account in the United Kingdom, in Uganda shillings to the credit of an External Account in Uganda, or in any other non-Sterling Area currency except Rhode- sian pounds that is appropriate to the country of residence of the payee. Receipts from countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be obtained in sterling from an External 1 Foreign currencies are all currencies other than the Uganda shilling, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shil- ling, and the East African shilling. 2 East African currency comprises Uganda shillings, Kenya shillings, and Tanzania shillings. 503 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Account in thé Un i ted Kingdom, in Uganda shil- lings from an Ex ternal Account, or in any other specified currency 3 that is not a Sterling Area currency. Special regulations apply to settlements with Rhodesia, South A f r ica, and South-West Afr ica. Nonresident Accounts Sterling Area Accounts are held by residents of other Sterling Area countries except Kenya and Tanzan ia. They may be credited freely with all authorized payments to such Sterling Area coun- tries by Uganda residents, with transfers from other Sterling Area Accounts, w i th t rans fe rs from External Accounts, and w i th the proceeds from sales to an authorized dealer in Uganda of any foreign currency or gold by residents of any other country in the Sterling Area except Kenya and Tanzania. They may be debited freely for pay- ments for exports to other countries in the Ster- ling Area except Kenya and Tanzania and other payments due by residents of other countries in the Sterling Area to Uganda residents, for pay- ments to residents of other countries in the Ster- ling Area for any purpose, for transfers to other Sterling Area Accounts in Uganda, for purchases of any Sterling Area currency, and for w i thdraw- als by the account holder while he is temporarily resident in Uganda; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange control authorities in a Sterling Area country has been obtained, Sterling Area Accounts may exceptionally be debited for transfers to External Accounts in Uganda or else- where in the Sterling Area, and for purchases in Uganda of any non-Sterling Area currency or gold. Accounts in Uganda shillings held by residents of countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia with authorized banks are, with exchange control approval, designated External Accounts. They may be credited freely with authorized payments to such countries by resi- dents of Uganda, with transfers from other Exter- 3 The specified currencies are Austrian schillings, Bel- gian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish and Faroese kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Japa- nese yen, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Por- tugese escudos, Spanish pesetas, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, U.S. dollars, and all Sterling Area currencies other than the Uganda shilling, the Kenya shilling, the Tanzania shilling, and the East African shilling. 504 nal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) and gold by nonresidents of the Sterling Area to authorized dealers; provided that permission of the appropriate exchange con- trol authorities in a Sterling Area country other than Kenya or Tanzania has been obtained, External Accounts may also be credited with t rans fe rs from Sterling Area Accounts. They may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts in Uganda or in any other Sterling Area country, and for purchases of non-Sterling Area currencies from authorized dealers. Nontransferable funds of residents of countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are credited to Blocked Accounts. Subject to prior approval, bal- ances on Blocked Accounts may be used for the purchase in Uganda of specified bonds and shares issued in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda; the redemption proceeds of certain government bonds so acquired are transferable beginning five years from the da te of purchase. Subject to individual permission, such balances may also be used for payments to residents not related to export trans- actions. Transfers between Blocked Accounts in Uganda, and to Blocked Accounts in Kenya and Tanzan ia, require prior approval. Imports and Import Payments Some imports from all sources are prohibited for reasons of public policy. All imports from Rhodesia and South Africa are prohibited and imports from Portuguese-controlled territories in Africa are not being licensed. Commodities listed in Schedule 1 to the External Trade Order 1969 require an import license when produced in any country other than Kenya or Tanzania. Certain other goods, which are listed in Schedule 2, require an import license irrespective of the coun- try of origin. All other imports may be effected w i thout a license from any source other than Rhodesia, South Africa, or Portuguese-controlled territories in Africa. Some imports from Kenya and Tanzania are subject to transfer taxes. Imports norma l ly must be purchased direct from the country of origin. Certain commodities may only be distributed by the National Trading Corporation; these ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution include salt, rice, ghee, onions, wines and spirits, edible oils, and cement. All goods originating in mainland China must be imported through the intermediary of the Corporation. When the importer has obtained a license from the Minister of Commerce and Industry, or if no license is required, exchange is provided automat- ically by an authorized bank upon production of the necessary documentary evidence by the importer that the goods have been shipped from the country of origin or imported into Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda. Payments for imports must be made within six months of the arrival of the goods in any one of these countries; the prior approval of the Bank of Uganda is required for suppliers' credits in excess of six months. Payments for invisibles Payments for invisibles to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are controlled, and those to South Africa are prohibited. Authorized banks are empowered to approve specified cate- gories of current payments up to established limits; amounts above these limits may be approved administratively, and most current pay- ments are in fact unrestricted. The basic allow- ance for travel outside the Scheduled Territories4 is the equivalent of U Sh 4,000 a person every three years, which may be taken out in foreign banknotes. The allowance is available for travel to any country except Rhodesia and South Africa. Travelers to destinations outside Kenya and Tanzania may take out up to U Sh 250 in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shill- ing notes and up to U Sh 4,000 in other bank- notes. Travelers proceeding direct to Kenya or Tanzania may export any amount in Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes. Nonresident travelers may take out foreign currency notes up to the amount they brought in upon entry. Fees for education up to the equivalent of U Sh 14,000 a person for a full scholastic year and fees for other specified purposes may be approved by an authorized bank upon production of evidence of debt. 4 Uganda's exchange control regulations define the Scheduled Territories as Kenya, Tanzania, and Uganda. UGANDA Facilities exist whereby salaried foreign nation- als other than nationals of the Scheduled Territo- ries, may during their stay in Uganda remit to their country of origin up to 33l/3 per cent of their gross monthly earnings, to cover family maintenance, savings, etc., provided that they are on a contract of employment which includes a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain foodstuffs and agricultural products require licenses and may be subject to restriction in order to ensure sufficient supplies for consumption in Uganda. Other goods may be exported without licenses. All exports to South Africa, the Portuguese territories in Africa, and Rhodesia are prohibited. Export proceeds in foreign currencies must be collected within six months of exportation and offered to an authorized bank in Uganda for con- version into Uganda shillings. An export tax of 40 per cent ad valorem is levied on copper and copper alloys sold at a price in excess of £ stg. 400 a ton. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts from invisibles in specified currencies (see footnote 3) must be sold to an authorized bank. Travelers may bring in freely foreign cur- rency notes; the import of Kenya, Tanzania, or Uganda shilling notes must not exceed U Sh 250 in value for each traveler unless arriving direct from Kenya or Tanzania, in which case any amount may be brought in. Capital Capital transfers to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are restricted and those to South Africa are prohibited. Residents of Uganda, however, may be granted exemptions from the deposit and surrender requirements in respect of foreign assets for specified Sterling Area assets held prior to June 11, 1965. Specified capital transfers up to established amounts to all countries other than Kenya and Tanzania are approved by authorized banks; all other capital transfers to destinations other than 505 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UGANDA Kenya and Tanzania require ind iv idual exchange control approval. Residents of Uganda leav ing the Scheduled Territories (see footnote 4) per- manently may transfer their assets up to the equivalent of U Sh 50,000. (For noncitizens not entitled to remit savings, the allowance is reduced by the amount of insurance p rem iums remitted after 1965.) If these residents leav ing Uganda take up pe rmanent residence in their coun try of origin, approval is normally given for the f u r t h er transfer of up to the equ iva lent of U Sh 20,000 upon each ann ive rsa ry of their depar ture. All rema in ing f u n ds must be credited to a Blocked Account and may be invested in ce r ta in approved securities; such fund s, if invested, become trans- ferable five years a f t er be ing directed to a Blocked Account. The income f rom such invest- ments is transferab le also du r ing the period of blocking. There is no restriction on the inves tment of foreign f u n ds in Uganda; but to ensure eventual repa tr ia t ion, it is necessary to obtain "approved status" for the investment in terms of the Foreign Investments (Protection) Act, 1964, which in normal c ircums tances is given freely. Foreign and domestic inves tment in specified types of produc- tion require approval under the East A f r ican Licensing Ordinance. Dividends and profits due to nonresidents and d is tr ibu ted by companies operating in Uganda are transferable. Except in respect of Kenya and Tanzan ia, all imports and exports of securities requ ire approval. Approval is freely granted for the pur- chase by nonresidents of Ugandan secur i t ies on a recognized stock exchange in East A f r ica, pro- vided that payment is received in an appropriate manne r. The income from such securities is remittable, and the proceeds on resale are nor- mally rem i t tab le also. Purchases of securities out- side Kenya and Tanzania by residents are not norma l ly permitted. A resident of Uganda may not send, as a gift, to a coun try other than Kenya or Tanzania more than U Sh 200 a year w i thout specific exchange control approval. With minor exceptions, loans or overdraft facilities granted to a nonresident or to a body corporate resident in the Scheduled Territories which is by any means controlled, whether directly or indirectly, by persons resident outside 506 the Scheduled Territories require prior exchange control approval. Commercial banks are not per- mitted to grant overdraft facilities to individuals and companies in order to enable them to make overseas transfers. Cold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Uganda for num isma t ic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary au tho r i t ies and authorized indus tr ial and profes- sional users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry constituting the personal effects of a traveler require licenses issued by the M in is t ry of Finance. Export licenses are not nor- ma l ly granted except for exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities and industrial users. The import of the following from all sources other than Kenya and Tanzania, and from Kenya and Tanzan ia when originating in other countries, is subject to individual licensing: jewelry of gold, silver, or p la t inum; goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares, inc lud ing set gems; bullion in the ingot, bar, or sheet; and gold coins. Import licenses for gold bu l l ion (ingots, bars, or sheets), gold jew- elry, and gold coins are issued by goldsmiths only and are issued restrictively. Changes during 1969 January 23. A number of foreign exchange allocations were revised. Similar measures went into effect in Kenya and Tanzania on the same date. The ma in changes were as follows: ( 1) Noncitizens henceforth could remit sav- ings to countries other than Kenya and Tanzania only if they were in Uganda on a contract of employment with a firm commitment to leave Uganda upon expiry of the contract. Other non- citizens were now regarded as permanent residents and were not entitled to remit savings, but upon leaving Uganda permanently they would enjoy the same facilities granted to emigrating citizens. (Only tourists and noncitizens on contracts of employment would henceforth be regarded as nonresidents. ) ( 2) Remittances of savings by noncitizens of any na t iona l i ty were allowed up to 33 Va per cent ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution of their salary during the entire period of employ- ment in Uganda; previously, 50 per cent of their salary could be remitted during the first four years and 20 per cent in subsequent years, and these facilities were available only to nationals of Sterling Area countries. ( 3) The basic travel allowance for travel out- side East Africa by citizens and noncitizens was reduced from U Sh 5,000 to U Sh 4,000 for each adult ( f rom U Sh 2,500 to U Sh 2,000 for each ch i ld ), and this allocation was made available only once every three years, instead of annually, as before. (However, noncitizens on service con- tracts and expatriate permanent civil servants would be allowed the basic travel allowance, or leave salaries up to the amount of the basic travel allowance, whenever taking leave in accordance with their terms of service.) Expenditures in respect of hotel accommodation, meals, car rent- als, etc., when settled in local currency through a travel agency in Uganda, would be deducted from the travel allowance. (4) The standard allowance for the transfer abroad of assets of persons leaving Uganda per- manently was reduced from U Sh 100,000 to U Sh 50,000 for each family un i t. Any balance in excess of U Sh 50,000 must be invested in Ugan- dan securities or kept in a deposit account in a bank in Uganda, and would be released, subject to exchange control approval, in annual install- ments of U Sh 20,000 (previously U Sh 40,000). These allowances would be applicable to all countries, while the previous allowance remittable UGANDA on the anniversary of the date of emigration was granted only to those emigrating to Sterling Area countries. For noncitizens not entitled to remit savings, the emigration allowance would be reduced by the amount of insurance premiums on foreign currency policies they had remitted after 1965. January 30. Imports of cotton textiles from any country outside the East African Community were prohibited. Imports from such countries of textiles of other materials were banned unless their landed value was at least 2s. 6d. (sterling) a square yard. April 10. Coins issued by the East African Currency Board ceased to be legal tender. May 26. Import controls were tightened. A new and more extensive list was issued of com- modities the importation of which was subject to ind iv idual licensing unless they were produced or manu fac tu red in Kenya or Tanzania. September 24. A second Association Agree- ment was signed by the European Economic Community and the countries of the East African Community. The first agreement, which was signed on July 26, 1968 for the period to May 31, 1969, had never entered into force. The new agreement would take effect upon ratification. November 1. All commercial banks and credit institutions operating in Uganda were required to be incorporated as Ugandan companies in order to receive a license to operate. 507 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Exchange Rate System On September 18, 1949, a par value for the Egyptian Pound was established by the United Arab Republic with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Most exchange transactions take place at rates based on the official rate of LE 1 = US$2.30. The rates of the Central Bank of Egypt on December 31, 1969 were LE 0.434782 buying, and LE 0.437390 selling, per US$1. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to most invisible and capital remit- tances. U.A.R. nationals holding foreign curren- cies are permitted to sell these, through local authorized banks acting as intermediaries, to residents wishing to make specified foreign pay- ments; the exchange rate at which such trans- actions take place may fluctuate. Banks require prior exchange control approval to deal among themselves in foreign currencies or to engage in arbitrage transactions abroad; such approval is not required, however, for balances held in resident or nonresident foreign currency accounts. Administration of Control Exchange control is supervised by a Supreme Committee for Foreign Exchange, which is set up by the Minister of Economy and Foreign Trade. The exchange control laws, ministerial orders, decree-laws, instructions of the Minister of Econ- omy and Foreign Trade, and decisions of the Supreme Committee are carried out by a Director of Exchange Operations appointed by the Minis- ter of Economy and Foreign Trade. A foreign exchange budget is established annually. The technical work of exchange control is performed, under the supervision and instructions of the Under-Secretary for Economy and Foreign Trade in Charge of Exchange Operations and the For- eign Exchange Budget and the Director of Exchange Operations, by the Central Exchange Control Department attached to the Central Bank of Egypt. An Export Board controls exports. All imports and most exports of traditional commodi- ties are carried out by public sector companies. Import licenses for imports that do not require 508 the transfer of foreign exchange are issued by the Import Control Office. Prescription of Currency Payments to residents of countries with which the United Arab Republic does not have bilateral payments agreements may be made in the cur- rency of the payee's country when that currency is available;, in a convertible currency ;a in Egyp- tian pounds to the credit of the appropriate non- resident account; or in any other manner permit- ted by the Central Exchange Control. Receipts may be accepted in the currency of the payer's country, if it is a currency acceptable to the Cen- tral Bank; in any convertible currency; in Egyp- tian pounds to the debit of an appropriate nonres- ident account; or in any other manner permitted by the Central Exchange Control. Settlements with countries with which the United Arab Republic has payments agreements are made according to the terms of those agree- ments.2 Certain settlements with countries with which indemnity agreements concerning compen- sation for nationalized property are in force are made through special accounts in Egyptian pounds with the Central Bank of Egypt. Suez Canal dues must be paid in Egyptian pounds by debiting a Shipping Account No. 1. Balances on this type of account may be created by selling a convertible currency to an authorized bank in the United Arab Republic, or by debiting a Free Nonresident Account. Nonresident Accounts In addition to the special accounts related to 1 Convertible currencies are listed as Austrian schil- lings, Belgian francs, Canadian dollars, Danish kroner, deutsche mark, French francs, Italian lire, Netherlands guilders, Norwegian kroner, Portuguese escudos, pounds sterling, Swedish kronor, Swiss francs, and U.S. dollars. 2 The United Arab Republic has bilateral payments agreements w i th the following countries: Albania, Al- geria, Bulgaria, mainland China, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, North Korea, Mon- golia, Poland, Rumania, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, U.S.S.R., Nor th Viet-Nam, Yemen Arab Re- public, and Yugoslavia. In addition, for the financing of trade in certain specified commodities, credit facilities have been established between the Central Bank of Egypt and the central bank of each of the following countries: Ceylon, Cuba, Ghana, Guinea, India, Mali, Morocco, Somalia, Sudan, and Turkey. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution the bilateral payments agreements of the United Arab Republic or to the indemnity agreements concluded with certain countries, there are four main types of nonresident accounts: Free Non- resident Accounts, Nonresident C Accounts, Non- resident D Accounts, and External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. Free Nonresident Accounts may be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible cur- rency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from other Free Nonresident Accounts; with interest on the accounts; and with the Egyp- tian pound equivalent of any transfer authorized in convertible currency. They may be debited for payments due to residents; for transfers to other Free Nonresident Accounts or Nonresident C or D Accounts; and for payments abroad in any convertible currency. Nonresident C Accounts may also be opened in the name of any nonresident, irrespective of his country of residence. They may be credited with proceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from Free Nonresident Accounts or other Nonresident C Accounts; and with any amounts authorized to be credited to these accounts by the Central Exchange Control. They may be debited, subject to exchange control approval, for payments due to residents (except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disburse- men ts); for transfers to other Nonresident C Ac- counts; for transfers to Nonresident D Accounts; and for payments abroad in convertible currencies. Nonresident D Accounts may be opened in the name of any resident of a payments agreement country (see footnote 2 ). The account must be designated by the name of the partner country concerned, and transfers from the account of one country to that of any other country may not be made without exchange control authorization. These accounts may be credited with the pro- ceeds from the sale of any convertible currency that has been transferred from abroad; with transfers from a Free Nonresident Account and —provided that exchange control authorization is obtained —with transfers from a Nonresident C Account; with transfers from other Nonresident UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC D Accounts of the same na t iona l i ty; and with any sum authorized to be credited to the account. They may be debited for payments due to resi- dents, except for exports, Suez Canal dues, and ships' disbursements, and —provided that Central Exchange Control authorization is obtained —for transfers to other Nonresident D Accounts and for paymen ts to the country in whose name the account is designated. External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Cur- rencies may be opened in the names of non- residents or persons who are considered nonresi- dents, including U.A.R. nationals who have been resident abroad for five consecutive calendar years and emigrants of U.A.R. nationality, as well as foreigners who reside in the United Arab Republic. The accounts must in principle be denominated in a convertible currency (see foot- note 1 ). They may be credited freely with con- vertible currency remitted from abroad; with transfers from another External Nonresident Account in Foreign Currency; and with any amount of interest paid on the balance by the bank where the account is kept. They may be freely debited for any amount of foreign currency sold to the Central Bank of Egypt; for transfers to another External Nonresident Account in For- eign Currencies; and for transfers of foreign cur- rency abroad. Dealings in foreign banknotes may be recorded in a separate column. There are also blocked accounts, to which may be credited any payment to a nonresident not remittable under the exchange control regula- tions. Transfers between blocked accounts require prior approval. These accounts may be debited for amounts up to LE 1,000 a year for living expenses of the account holder or his family in the United Arab Republic. They may also be debited, subject to prior approval, for investments in U.A.R. Government loans or in registered shares in nominative form of companies estab- lished in the United Arab Republic, and for sub- scriptions to increases in capital of U.A.R. com- panies in which the account holder is already a shareholder. Income derived from such invest- ments may be remitted to the nonresident benefi- ciary. Blocked accounts held by juridical persons may be debited for amounts not exceeding LE 1,000 a year for settlement of obligations due to the U.A.R. authorities, payments to residents 509 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC for services rendered, and expenses incurred in connection with the activities or residence of the holder's employees or representatives in the United Arab Republic. All accounts held by residents of Rhodesia also are blocked; no transactions on these accounts may take place w i thout pr ior approval. Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. These accounts may be opened in the names of U .A .R. nationals who work abroad or perform services for nonresidents. The accounts may be credited with amounts transferred in convertible currency by the account holder (w i th the exception of fixed percentages of the income received abroad that must be repatriated) or with foreign bank- notes carried by him on arrival in the country. They may be debited for amounts utilized to finance imports for the public or private sector; local purchases of apar tmen ts, household goods, cars, consumer goods, etc.; and foreign travel by the account holder, his parents, and his f am i l y. Imports and import Payments Imports of certain goods from any source, and all imports from Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica are prohibited. Imports of goods that are considered nonessential and goods that are also produced locally are restricted. A list of these restricted imports, which is revised from time to time, is published by the M in i s t ry of Economy and Foreign Trade. In conformity with Ministerial Decree No. 286 of 1967, imports must be made, under the super- vision of nine Commodity Boards, by publicly owned commercial companies affiliated with the Egyptian General Trade Organization. The Com- modity Boards are responsible for determining the over-all export and import policy in respect of the commodities for which they have been established. This includes the draw ing up of the necessary implementation programs for the achievement of import targets in accordance with established priorities, and the examination of import offers, tak ing into consideration specifica- tions, prices, delivery dates, and means of pay- ment. As an exception to this system, direct imports may be made by certain industrial and other public sector establishments. Direct imports 510 up to LE 5,000 a year may be made by indus t r ial pr iva te sector establishments, provided th at no t r an s f er of foreign exchange is required. For purposes of adm in is t ra t ion, the economy is divided into several sectors (agricultural, indus- tr ia l, transportation, etc .). The annual foreign exchange budget provides for a specific quota for each sector, and the authorities in charge of the sector decide upon the essential goods to be im- ported w i th in that quota. In drawing up this budget, an estimate is made first of the country's export proceeds and its earnings from invisibles, as well as the expected availability of foreign loans and other credit facilities. Allowance is then made for the comm i tmen ts fa l l ing due during the fiscal year in respect of foreign debt service and other obligations, as well as paymen ts for invisibles. The remaining resources in convertible and bilateral currencies are then allocated to the various sectors of the economy in accordance with the essential import requirements of each. A financing committee has been established in the Central Bank in accordance with Ministerial Decree No. 286. When import transactions pay- able in convertible currencies have been decided upon e i ther by the Commodity Boards or by sec- tors hav ing the right of direct importation, they are subm i t ted to the committee. Af ter its coordi- na t ion of import requirements and available resources, au thor iza t ion is given for the imple- mentation of the transactions, through the Egyp- t ian General Trade Organization or the Exchange Control Department, to the bank designated for the sector concerned. Advance payments for imports in excess of LE 100 require the prior approval of the Exchange Control Department. Imports of new personal effects exceeding LE 100 in value and imports not requiring the transfer of foreign exchange are subject to import licenses, which are issued by the Import Control Depar tmen t. All other imports are regulated by exchange allocations ra ther than by import licenses. A development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. va lue is payable on imports; the tax is 5 per cent for cer ta in highly essential foodstuffs imported by the M i n i s t ry of Supply. A statistical tax of 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value is payable on all imports except wheat. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Payments for Invisibles Banks are authorized to provide exchange for payments for certain invisibles; for others, the prior approval of the Central Exchange Control is required. Exchange is normally made available for expenses associated with approved trade transactions and other current payments. Expen- ses for permitted travel, fam i ly maintenance, film royalties, and subscriptions and fees of profes- sional organizations usually are approved within specified quotas. Private travel abroad is usually permitted when no exchange is applied for. U.A.R. nationals who have deposited earnings from their work abroad, or from services per- formed for nonresidents, in Resident Convertible Currency Accounts, may use this foreign exchange freely for any travel expenses for them- selves, their families, or their parents. Other resi- dents may purchase, through local banks acting as intermediaries, the foreign exchange required for travel expenses and certain other foreign pay- ments from U.A.R. nationals holding Resident Convertible Currency Accounts or External Non- resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. An exchange tax of 5 per cent is applied to all payments for invisibles except students' remitt- ances, government payments, transfers of funds for pilgrimages, and travel financed with funds from Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies or External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Cur- rencies. Travelers may not export Egyptian pound banknotes. Foreign tourists leaving the United Arab Republic may take with them any remain- ing foreign exchange which they had brought in and declared, but residents may not take out for- eign bankno tes in excess of LE 10 without spe- cific permission. Exports and Export Proceeds Apart f rom exports to Israel, Rhodesia, and South Afr ica, which are prohibited, and commod- ities required for the national economy, whose export may be restricted, exports may be made free of license, but an export form must be sub- mitted. Exports of many agricultural products are organized and supervised by Commodity Boards. Cotton and rice are exported by the public sector only. UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC Export proceeds must be repatriated within three months from the date of shipment of the goods. Proceeds from exports to payments agree- ment countries must be obtained in accordance with the provisions of the relevant agreement. Some exports to specified countries may be set- tled through indemn i ty accounts in Egyptian pounds. Proceeds from invisibles Physical persons who are considered nonresi- dents (emigrants of U.A.R. nationality, U.A.R. nationals who have been resident abroad for five consecutive calendar years, and foreigners who reside in the United Arab Republic) are not obliged to transfer to the United Arab Republic any part of their foreign earnings. They may retain these earnings in External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies. U.A.R. nationals who are working abroad for a period of less than five calendar years or who perform services for nonresidents are obliged to repatriate fixed per- centages of their foreign income and may retain the balance in Resident Accounts in Foreign Cur- rencies. With these exceptions, all persons and legal entities in the United Arab Republic are obliged to offer to authorized banks at the rate of exchange quoted by the Central Bank, within one month from the date of their collection abroad, all proceeds in foreign currencies derived from invisibles. Suez Canal dues must be received in Egyptian pounds from Shipping Accounts No. 1, which may be credited only with the proceeds from sales of convertible currencies or by trans- fers from a Free Nonresident Account. Certain travel in the United Arab Republic by nonresi- dents may be financed from Nonresident C Accounts or, under indemnity agreements with specified countries, from Nonresident T Accounts. Persons arr iv ing in the United Arab Republic from abroad may not import Egyptian pound banknotes but are permitted to bring in, and to use locally, unlimited amounts in foreign exchange, subject to customs declaration. Capital U .A .R. nationals who have deposited foreign earnings in External Nonresident Accounts in Foreign Currencies in Egyptian banks may use 511 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC this foreign exchange for any purpose, inc lud ing t rans fer abroad. With this exception, outward capital transfers by residents are severely restricted. U.A.R. em igran ts are authorized to t rans fer funds and /or to take out jewelry and other valuables up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a f am i ly; in add i t ion, they may export freely personal effects and fu rn i tu re up to LE 200 a person or LE 500 a fam i ly. Transfers abroad by residents for the purpose of acqu ir ing securities or other capital assets out- side the Un i ted Arab Republic requ ire ind iv idual licenses, which normally are not granted except for t ran s fe rs to some neighboring countries. The import and export of securities and similar items require licenses. Capital transfers abroad are sub- ject to an exchange tax of 5 per cent. Nonresidents may purchase free ly securities on stock exchanges in the United Arab Republic against payment in foreign currencies acceptable to the Central Bank of Egypt or in Egyptian pounds by deb i t ing an appropriate nonresident account. Certain categories of securities may be bought to the debit of blocked accounts (see sec- tion on Nonresident Accounts, above ). Proceeds from sales of securities held under "nonresident dossier" are credited to blocked accounts. Trans- fers of securities between nonresidents require prior approval. Transfers abroad are permitted in respect of ( 1) securities drawn or matured in accordance w i th the original terms of issue; ( 2) the value of life or endowment policies on surren- der or at ma tu r i ty; (3) matured mortgages; and (4) accrued alimony under court orders up to LE 5,000. An amount not exceeding LE 5,000 a family —irrespective of whether the sum is made up of capital or income —may be released from a fami- ly's assets in the United Arab Republic to resi- dents of foreign na t iona l i ty who acquire nonresi- dent status. Any amount above this limit is credited to a blocked account. Any payment of a capital na ture not remittable under the exchange control regulations must be credited to a blocked account. The Foreign Investment Law of April 2, 1953 and Law No. 475 of 1954 define the treatment of new foreign investments that contribute to the development of the economy in the fields of 512 indu s t ry, agriculture, metallurgy, mechanization, transport, and tourism, and establish guarantees for the transfer of net profits realized and for the repatriation of capital. Requests for transfers of profits not covered by these laws are considered on an ind iv idual basis. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins and gold jewe l ry in the United Arab Republic. The monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are allowed to hold or acquire gold in any other fo rm. There is a free market for gold coins in Cairo. W i th the exception of monetary gold, most imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses. Changes during 1969 January 4. The statistical tax on imports was reduced from 10 per cent to 1 per cent of the c.i.f. value. A development tax of 10 per cent of the c.i.f. value was introduced on imports (5 per cent for certain highly essential imports). March 26. A trade and payments agreement was concluded with the People's Republic of Southern Yemen. It would go into effect on the date of the exchange of the instruments of ratifi- cation. April 7. The marg in of the special tar iff con- cessions provided for by the Trade Expansion and Economic Cooperation Agreement with India and Yugoslavia of December 23, 1967 was increased f rom 40 per cent to 50 per cent. May 31. Agreement was reached with Yugo- slavia to term ina te the bilateral payments agree- ment and to put all payments between the two countries on a convertible basis from July 1, 1970. July 16. A protocol was signed amending the Trade Expansion and Economic Cooperation Agreement with India and Yugoslavia. Additional import du ty concessions were extended to both countries. August 7. Regulations were issued permitting residents to purchase, for the purpose of making payments in respect of specified invisibles, foreign exchange held in foreign currency accounts in the name of U.A.R. nationals. The 5 per cent ex- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution change tax was not applied to the use of such foreign exchange for travel abroad. August 12. Balances in Resident Accounts in Foreign Currencies could also be used by holders to pay for subscriptions to periodicals, books, membership dues, participation in conferences, and correspondence courses. Such payments were limited to LE 100 a person a year. August 19. Presidential Decree No. 1513 reduced the import du ty on automobiles and trucks from 250 per cent to 100 per cent of the c.i.f. value. September 1. U.A.R. nationals work ing abroad and receiving wages of LE 50 a month or less were exempt from surrender of any part of their foreign currency earnings. An exemption of LE 50 a month was also granted to persons earning wages of more than LE 50 but not ex- ceeding LE 200 a month. September 4. Blocked accounts in the names of juridical persons could be debited for up to UNITED ARAB REPUBLIC LE 1,000 a year for services obtained and ex- penses made in the United Arab Republic, and for any other purpose permitted by the exchange con- trol authorities. Releases in excess of LE 1,000 a year could be permitted only for payment of amounts due to the Government. September 9. Ind iv idua ls were permitted to import for their own use specified goods (e.g., l i f t ing equ ipmen t, tractors and their spare parts, and bu i ld ing ma ter ia ls) up to a value of LE 3,000 a year, provided that no transfer of foreign exchange was required. October 9. U.A.R. nationals returning from abroad were permitted to import one passenger automobile, provided that it had been bought w i th f u n ds earned abroad and provided that the same person had not imported another car during the previous four years. Furthermore, subject to certain conditions, passenger automobiles could be imported either by foreigners, religious mis- sions, schools, and branches of foreign business firms or as gifts to U.A.R. nationals. 513 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 2.13*281 g rams of fine gold per Pound Sterling or £1 = US$2.40. Ma rket rates for spot exchange t ran sac t ions in U.S. dol- lars are m a i n t a i n ed between o f f ic ial l im i ts of US$2.42 buy ing, and US$2.38 selling, per <£ !. Market rates for spot transac t ions in o ther con- vertible or ex te rna l ly convertible currenc ies (except those cu r renc ies for wh ich quo ta t ions are based on s ter l ing, e.g., Au s t r a l i an dollars and New Zea land do l lars) are f ree to move w i th in a range of rates resu l t ing f rom the o f f ic ial dollar l im i ts of the Un i ted K ingdom in re la t ion to the dollar l im i ts of the other coun t r ies concerned. Au thor ized banks may, subject to the observance of l im i ts upon the accumu la t ion of spot fo re ign exchange, carry out forward t ransac t ions at rates which may fluctuate under the in f luence of ma rket forces. Transactions w i th res ident custom- ers may be entered into only for approved pur- poses and, where there is an unde r ly ing commer- cial contract, in the currency of the con trac t. Au tho r ized banks are allowed to engage in spot and fo rwa rd exchange t ransac t ions in any cu r ren- cies except the Rhodesian pound. The authorized banks may deal among them- selves and w i th residents and non res iden ts in for- eign notes and coins (o ther than Rhodes ian cu r rency) at f ree ma rket rates of exchange. There is also a ma rket in which the fo re ign exchange proceeds (referred to as inve s tment cu r rency) resu l t ing ma in ly from the sale ou ts ide the Sterling Area of foreign cu r rency securities l or direct inve s tmen ts owned by residents may be negotiated at freely de term ined rates, usually attracting a prem ium over the o f f ic ial market ra te; at the end of 1969, that p rem ium was about 38 per cent. These f u n ds are ava i lab le for re inves t- ment in ma rke tab le fore ign currency secur i t ies and for ce r ta in approved direct inves tmen ts out- side the S ter l ing Area. In ano ther ma rket the for- 1 The term "foreign cu r rency secur i t ies" in t h is s u r v ey is gene ra l ly to be read as m e a n i ng s e cu r i t i es expressed in a cu r rency of a c o u n t ry ou ts ide the S t e r l ing Area. Special regu la t ions, however, are app l icab le to fo r e ign c u r r e n cy securities payab le in Rhodes ian pound s. A ll o ther secu r i- ties are regarded as s te r l ing secur i t ies. The term "securi- ties" inc ludes ce r t i f ica tes of deposit and t r e a s u ry b i l l s. 514 eign exchange proceeds (referred to as property cu r rency) resu l t ing from the sale ou ts ide the S te r l ing A rea of p rope r ty (m a in ly houses and a p a r tm e n t s) owned by residents may be negoti- ated at free ly de te rm ined rates; the prem ium over the o f f i c i al ma rket ra te was about 46 per cent at the end of 1969. These f u n ds are available, w i th specific permission, for the purchase of a house or ap a r tm ent for personal use in a coun try out- side the Sterling Area (o ther than Rhode s ia ), for a t t end ant expenses, and for imp rovemen ts to such property. The Un i ted K ingdon accepted the obligations of A r t ic le V I I I, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Ag reemen t, as from Feb rua ry 15, 1961. Exchange Control Territory Exchange control is not imposed on transac- tions w i th o ther pa r ts of the Sterling Area ("Scheduled Territories" in the nomenclature of the U .K. exchange con t ro l ) .2 Exceptionally, ster- l i ng paymen ts to Hong Kong are screened under Hong Kong regu la t ions to ensure that residents in o ther par ts of the Sterling Area do not have access to Hong Kong's f ree ma rke t, and special res t r ic t ions are imposed on the disposal of ster- l ing assets of residents of Hong Kong. Control is also exercised over the acquisition of foreign cur- rency securities f rom the rest of the Sterling Area. W i th respect to ou tward capital transfers, a program of v o l u n t a ry res t ra int applies to direct and por tfo l io inves tment in the more developed countries of the Sterling Area (Aus t ra l ia, the Irish Republic,3 New Zealand, and South Afr ica; see section on Capital, be low ). 2 In add i t ion to the Un i ted K ingdom, the S te r l ing Area compr ises Aus t ra l ia, Barbados, Botswana, Ceylon, Cyp rus, The Gamb ia, Ghana, Guyana, Iceland, Ind ia, Ir ish R epub l i c, Jama ica, Hashemite K ingdom of Jordan, Kenya, State of K uw a i t, Lesotho, L ibyan A rab Repub l ic, Ma law i, Ma lays ia, Malta, Mau r i t iu s, New Zealand, N ig e r i a, Pak i s tan, Western Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singa- pore, South A f r ica, South-West A f r ica, People's Repub l ic of Sou the rn Yemen, Swaziland, Tanzan ia, T r in idad and Tobago, Uganda, and Zamb ia, together w i th a ll B r i t i sh Dom in ion s, Protectorates, Protected States, and Trust Territories not p rev iou s ly men t ioned, except Canada and Rhodes ia. The Ma ld ive Is lands and N a u ru are adm in is- t r a t i v e ly trea ted as being w i t h in the S te r l ing Area. {T he U .K. regu la t ions refer to Ire land as the Irish R e p u b l i c, and for the purpose of th is su rv ey the U.K. usage is be ing followed. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Administration of Control Exchange control in the United Kingdom is administered by the Bank of England on behalf of the U.K. Treasury, as is the vo lun ta ry restraint program on cer ta in outward investment. How- ever, practically all commercial banks are author- ized to approve most cu r rent payments requ ir ing exchange control permission. The licensing of imports and exports is handled by the Board of Trade. Prescription of Currency Receipts from countries in the Sterling Area may be in any Sterling Area cu r rency; those from countries outside the Sterling Area other th an Rhodesia must be in sterling from an External Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pound s ), which must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Payments to countries in the Sterling Area may be made in any Sterling Area currency; payments to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made by crediting sterling to an Ex te rnal Account or in any non-Sterling Area currency except Rhodesian pounds. For security reasons, settlements with Rhodesia are subject to special regulations generally prescribing the use of Rhodesian Accounts, Suspense Accounts, or, in certain circumstances, the Rhodesian Special Account with the Standard Bank, London. How- ever, unless specifically included among the per- mitted debits to Rhodesian Accounts, all com- merical payments, except those in respect of exports, due from persons resident in Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom must be received either in a non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) or, with the specific permission of the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rho- desian Special Account; payments for exports from the United Kingdom to Rhodesia shipped on or after December 18, 1965 must be received in advance of shipment in a non-Sterling Area cur- rency other than Rhodesian pounds, or, w i th the specific approval of the Bank of Eng land, in ster- ling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Persons normally resident in Rhodesia who are living temporarily in the United Kingdom as students or workers may open Temporary Resident Accounts in sterling with authorized banks in the United Kingdom; debits to such accounts are generally UNITED KINGDOM permitted only for United Kingdom. living expenses within the Nonresident Accounts The sterling accounts of residents of other parts of the Sterling Area (except Hong Kong) are treated in the same way as those of residents of the United Kingdom. Thus, for transfers w i th in the Sterling Area no U.K. exchange con- trol permission is required; for payments to other countries by residents of any territory of the Ster- ling Area, the authorized banks are required to ensure that the payment has the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory con- cerned. External Accounts. With the exception of Rhodesian Accounts and the Rhodesian Special Account (see below), the sterling accounts of nonresidents with banks in the United Kingdom, i.e., those of residents of countries outside the Sterling Area, are designated External Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th authorized payments by residents of the Sterling Area, with transfers from other External Accounts, with the proceeds from sales of gold or non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds (including bankno te s ), and with sterling banknotes mailed from outside the Sterling Area. External Accounts may be debited freely for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts, for transfers to Rhodesian Accounts other than in payment for certain goods exported from Rhodesia, for payments in cash in the United Kingdom, and for purchases of any non- Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds ( inc lud ing bankno tes) or gold. Rhodesian Accounts. These accounts are appli- cable to residents of Rhodesia only. Permitted credits include transfers from External Accounts, provided that the bank has no reason to believe that the payment is for a purpose prohibited by the Southern Rhodesia (United Nations Sanctions) (No. 2) Order 1968; payments by residents of Sterling Area territories other than the United Kingdom to residents of Rhodesia, subject to the approval of the exchange control authority in the territory concerned; and payments by U.K. resi- dents to residents of Rhodesia in respect of ( 1 ) the sale of non-Sterling Area currencies other than Rhodesian pounds, (2) the discount or maturity 515 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM proceeds of U.K. Treasury bills, (3) permitted imports from Rhodesia which have entered cus- toms in the Un i ted Kingdom, (4) insu rance and freight charges resu l t ing from permitted trade between Rhodesia and any Sterling Area terri- tory, (5) insurance claims directly related to such permitted trade, (6) pensions and widows' annuities where associated with the deceased hus- band's emp loymen t, and (7) charges and fees relating to patents, designs, and trademarks regis- tered in Rhodesia, Zamb ia, or Malawi. Perm i t ted debits inc lude t ran s fe rs to the Rho- desian Special Account in respect of pensions and widows' annu i t ies; paymen ts for living expenses in the United Kingdom of persons resi- dent in Rhodesia and their fam i l ies; authorized purchases of U.K. sterling securities to be held for the account holder; purchases in the United King- dom of treasury bills to be held for the account holder; paymen ts to residents of the Sterling Area for ( 1 ) interest on and repayment of ou ts tand ing personal loans, advances, and overdrafts granted before November 11, 1965, (2) patents, designs, trademarks, and royalties, (3) distributions from Rhodesian estates and trusts, and (4) subscrip- tions to newspapers and other periodicals; and payments to U.K. residents for (a) expenses aris- ing out of property in the United Kingdom owned on or before November 11, 1965, (b) taxes, (c) educational fees and incidental expen- ses, (d) insurance prem iums and capital and annu i ty payments on personal policies taken out on or before November 11, 1965, (e) medical fees, (f) gifts and maintenance not exceeding £250 for any one payment, to individuals and charitable or religious organizations, and (g) bank and safe custody charges. Transfers between Rhodesian Accounts and from Rhodesian Accounts to External Accounts are not allowed. Suspense Accounts. Unless eligible for credit to Rhodesian Accounts or to the Rhodesian Special Account, payments to persons resident in Rhode- sia must be withheld; the funds may be placed on Suspense Accounts and, except with the specific permission of the Bank of England, may only be (1) used to meet U.K. tax payments and safe custody charges due on the monies in question, or (2) placed on deposit with banks or other financial institutions in the name of the U.K. resi- dent by whom they are held. Permission is nor- 516 mally given for residents of Rhodesia to use Sus- pense Account monies to purchase U.K. sterling securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom and to purchase U.K. Treasury bills and savings bonds and certificates. Permis- sion is only given for them to purchase Rhode- s ian securities, however, when the funds for the purchase are derived from the sale proceeds of other Rhodesian securities. The Rhodesian Special Account. This is an account operated by the Rhodesia Pensions Office staff in London and ma in ta ined with the Standard Bank, London. Pensions and associated payments due to beneficiaries in Rhodesia from residents of the Sterling Area, and pensions due from Rhodesia to residents of the United Kingdom and most other parts of the Sterling Area, are normally set- tled through this account. Corresponding trans- fers from Rhodesian Accounts in the names of ind iv idua ls to the Rhodesian Special Account are free ly perm i t ted. Permission is not normally given for paymen ts of any other na ture to be credited to the Rhodesian Special Account. Subject to specific approval by the Bank of England, any balance on the Special Account may be used to meet the cost of permitted exports to Rhodesia f rom the Sterling Area and of services provided by residents of the Sterling Area for account of persons resident in Rhodesia. Imports and Import Payments For import licensing purposes, countries out- side the United Kingdom other than Rhodesia 4 are divided into five groups: other Sterling Area countries, the Dollar Area,5 Japan,6 the Eastern Area,7 and all other countries. Imports from countries other than Rhodesia and those in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without restriction, 4 All goods from Rhodesia are subject to licensing con- trol and licenses are not no rma l ly gran ted. 5 The Dollar Area comprises Bolivia, Canada, Colom- bia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Ha i t i, Honduras, Liberia, Mexi- co, Nicaragua, Panama, Philippines, United States, and Venezuela. 6 Japan w i ll u l t im a t e ly cease to be treated as in a cate- gory by itself. For a transitional period, certain items con t inue to be restricted. 7 The Eas tern Area comprises A lban ia, Bu lga r ia, ma in- land Ch ina, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Germany, Hungary, Nor th Korea, People's Republic of Mongolia, Poland, Ruman ia, U.S.S.R., and No r th Viet-Nam. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution with the following exceptions: (a) from all other countries, 13 commodities or groups of com- modities;8 (b) from all other countries except the Sterling Area, 4 commodities or groups of commodities;9 and (c) from the Dollar Area only, 6 commodities or groups of commodities. Imports from countries in the Eastern Area are admitted under an Open General License without restriction if they appear in a specific list, which covers a range of raw materials, minerals, metals, and some manu fac tu red and semimanu- fac tured goods. A wide range of other manufac- tured goods may be imported from Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, Ruman ia, and the U.S.S.R. w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction under open individual license.10 All other imports from the Eastern Area require a specific import license. Most articles subject to restriction can be imported in limited quantities under bilateral or global quotas. Some imports are prohibited from all non-Sterling Area sources. These are coal, coke, and solid fuels manufac tured from coal or coke, and whole hams, other than hams pre- served in airtight containers. Imports of cereals and cereal products are subject to m in imum import prices enforced through variable import levies. Under the Customs (Import Deposits) Act 1969, an import deposit of 40 per cent n of the value of the goods payable at the time of en try into customs is required for most goods other than basic foods, feed ing s tuffs, fuel, certain cate- gories of goods imported mainly f rom developing countries, and goods for re-export or those used in the production or manu fac tu re of exports. The deposit has to be paid to the customs at the time of entry of the goods into the United Kingdom and it is repayable, w i thout interest, af ter 180 8 Coffee and coffee preparations f rom all sources require a specific license to ensure compliance w i th the In terna t ional Coffee Agreement. The restrictions on cot- ton textiles do not apply to countries in Western Europe, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the Un i ted States. 9 Includes imports of coal, coke, and solid fuels manu- factured from coal and coke, when o r ig ina t ing in or consigned from the Irish Republic, which also require a license. 10 On J anu a ry 1 and J anu a ry 20, 1970, respectively, similar liberalization was extended to certain goods or ig ina t ing in Eastern Ge rmany and ma in land Ch ina. On April 28, 1970 the range of goods that may be imported w i thout quota restrictions from Bu lgar ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ge rmany, Hunga ry, Poland, R um a n i a, and the U.S.S.R. was extended. 11 Reduced to 30 per cent on May 1, 1970. UNITED KINGDOM days to the person by whom it was made; the deposit does not necessarily have to be made by the importer. Residents of the United Kingdom are not normally permitted to borrow sterling f rom nonresidents or foreign currency, either from authorized banks or from nonresidents, to finance import deposits. The requirement to make the deposit applies irrespective of the origin of the goods. Permission to import f rom countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia, whether under Open General License or some other form of license carries with it an entitlement to pur- chase non-Sterling Area currency or to credit sterling to an External Account to pay for the import, provided that evidence of customs entry is subm i t ted or evidence that the goods have been dispatched to the United Kingdom or are to be dispatched immediately on receipt of payment. Advance payments for imports are approved by the Bank of England in all cases where the pay- ment is considered genuine and in accordance with the traditions of the trade and the continu- ance of the practice is considered to be essential. Exchange control forms are not required for pay- ments to residents of the Sterling Area; neither are they required for payments to residents of other countries, unless the payment represents pa rt of final settlement for goods for which the total amount payable exceeds £2,000, and evi- dence of importation cannot be presented to the bank before mak ing the remittance, or unless non-Sterling Area currency exceeding the equiva- lent of <£250 is being bought forward. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to residents of other Sterling Area countries may be made freely. Pay- ments to residents of countries outside the Ster- ling Area require exchange control authoriza- t ion, which (except for payments to residents of Rhodesia) 12 is granted freely for all purposes 12 For secur i ty reasons, v i r tua l ly all current payments to Rhodesia are prohibited, except when these result f rom perm i t ted trade in goods. Consideration is, however, given to rem i t tances on a l im i ted basis to relieve hardsh ip and to remittances of a con t inu ing na tu re by charitable, religi- ous, medical, and educational organizations for both cur- rent purposes (where similar remittances were made prior to November 11, 1965) or to meet capital expenditure in the educational and medical fields. Small personal gifts are also permitted where hum an i t a r i an grounds exist for the purpose. 517 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM other than t r a v e l13 and sterling usance credits to finance trade directly between principals resi- dent outside the Sterling Area, subject to the presentation of supporting evidence. The comple- tion of an exchange control form is required for payments exceeding £250 or its equ iva len t. Authorized banks are permitted to approve appli- cations for transfers on account of m any categories of current invisibles w i thout any l im i ta t ion, and for other categories up to established limits. Ex- cept for travel,13 applications for paymen ts in excess of these l im i ts or for purposes for which no delegation of au tho r i ty has been granted are approved by the Bank of Eng land, provided that no unauthorized capital ou tf low is invo lved. Authorized banks may dispatch s ter l ing bank- notes to nonresidents except residents of Rhode- sia against payment in sterling from an Ex te rnal Account or in any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. An allowance of up to £50 a person a year in non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhode- sian pounds may be made available to residents by banks and authorized travel agents for per- sonal travel outside the Sterling Area except to Rhodesia (but see footnote 13 ); an add i t ional £,25 may be made available to persons aged 70 or more and to children up to the age of 18 trav- eling in parties arranged by schools or by youth organizations. Banks and authorized travel agents may also, subject to the submission of an appro- priate medical certificate, make ava i lab le up to £1 a day for a m a x im um of three mon ths in respect of travel unde r taken for hea l th reasons. In addition, they may make available an allow- ance of £25 for a person w i sh ing to attend the fune ral of a close re la t ive abroad. For travel for 13 The a r rangemen ts conce rn ing fore ign exchange for travel (except to Rhodes ia) were a l tered f rom J a n u a ry 2, 1970. For any type of t rave l, U .K. res iden ts cou ld ob ta in on demand f rom banks and au thor ized travel agents for- eign exchange up to the e q u i v a l e nt of £300 a person a trip; for t r av el for business or professional reasons, an allowance of £40 a day, for up to two mon ths, could be authorized by banks and ce r ta in authorized travel agents. App l ica t ions for add i t ional amoun ts were approved by the Bank of Eng land unless there was reason to suspect that the exchange was to be used for purposes other t h an genuine travel expenditure. The cost of accommodation, fares, etc., could be paid for w i t h o ut l im i t, and the deduc- tions for "V-form content" were d iscon t inued. Passport ma rk ing remained. Credit cards could again be used freely for trave l ing expenses outside the Sterling Area. 518 business or professional reasons, including attend- ance at conferences, an allowance of up to <£20 a day, for up to two months, may similarly be made available by banks and certain authorized travel agents. Applications for larger amoun ts for business or professional travel must be referred to the Bank of England, and each case is considered on its merits (but see footnote 13). Except as indicated above, or where education is being un- dertaken outside the Sterling Area (see be low ), applications for more th an £ 50 for private travel within a period of a year must be s im i lar ly referred, but are sympa the t ica l ly considered only for persons su f fe r ing from a physical disability and persons visiting sick or elderly relatives. The above travel allowances are exclusive of the payments of fares for transport fo rm ing an integral part of the ma in jou rney, the cost of which is not limited, pro- vided that payment is made in sterling in the United Kingdom; separate provisions, however, are in effect for cruises and for payments in respect of yachts and other vessels and aircraft used for pr iva te purposes that have a small fuel- carrying capacity. All travel exchange purchased must be recorded in the traveler's passport, as must the amount of non-Sterling Area expendi- tu re for accommodation, etc., that has been set- tled in sterling in the United Kingdom; this amount ("the V-form content") is deducted from the appropriate travel allowance. Resident travel- ers may take out up to £50 in foreign currency notes.14 Any unused travel exchange must be surrendered w i th in one month of issue or upon re turn to the Un i ted Kingdom, if later.15 In addi- t ion, resident travelers may take w i th them up to < £ 1 516 in U.K. and other Sterling Area bank- notes, which may be exchanged or spent abroad only for travel expend i ture; but those traveling direct to the Irish Republic or the Channel Islands may take out any amount. Visitors are, in addition, allowed to take out any notes that they brought in with them, other than notes in excess of <£ 15 expressed in the currencies of the United Kingdom or the Irish Republic. 14 Increased to the equ iva lent of £300 on J anu a ry 2, 1970. 15 W i th effect from J a n u a ry 2, 1970, travel facilities expressed in s ter l ing could be held for six mon ths from the date of issue or u n t il r e tu rn to the United K ingdom, if la ter. 16 Increased to £25 on J a n u a ry 2, 1970. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Authorized banks are permitted to approve, within certain limits and subject to the submis- sion of appropriate documentary evidence of the amounts due, applications to pay fees, accommo- dation charges, and all incidental expenses arising from the education of U.K. residents outside the Sterling Area. Special regulations apply to all travel to Rho- desia. For approved official and essential business journeys the Bank of England will authorize the issue of non-Sterling Area currency at a rate of up to £10 a day with a max imum of £250. Facilities for private travel are authorized only where there are strong compassionate grounds. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports to Rhodesia are subject to licensing control; all exports to other destinations are free of license, except for a limited number of items. Virtually all exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Except for exports to Rhodesia, completion of exchange control forms is waived for exports not exceeding £2,000 f.o.b., other than gifts in k ind, for which forms are required when the value ex- ceeds £100 f.o.b. Exporters to countries outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia must obtain appropriate payment within six months of ship- ment, unless special permission has been granted to collect at a later date. Receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies must be offered for sale to an authorized bank unless the recipient has obtained specific permission to credit them to a retained currency account (subject to supervision). Per- mitted exports to Rhodesia must be paid for prior to shipment in any non-Sterling Area currency other then Rhodesian pounds or, if specific per- mission is granted by the Bank of England, in sterling from the Rhodesian Special Account. Proceeds from Invisibles Receipts in non-Sterling Area currencies on account of invisibles must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Recipients of such currencies may, however, be permitted to credit them to a retained currency account if they are needed for operating purposes. British and other banknotes may be brought into the United Kingdom freely. Capital Residents of the United Kingdom who receive UNITED KINGDOM the currency of a country outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesian pounds from certain capital account sources (mainly the sale or redemption of foreign currency securities and the sale or liquidation of direct investments situated outside the Sterling Area) may, in certain cir- cumstances and with permission, use the exchange (which is regarded as investment cur- rency once permission has been given) for the purchase abroad of marketable foreign currency securities or sell the exchange for sterling to other residents to be used for the same purpose. If per- mission is not forthcoming, the foreign currency must be offered for sale at the rates ruling in the official market to an authorized bank in the United Kingdom. If permission is granted, how- ever, the equivalent in non-Sterling Area currency of 25 per cent of the proceeds must be sold to an authorized bank for sterling at the official market rate of exchange.17 In certain circumstances, res- idents of the United Kingdom who are foreign nationals and have obtained exemption from their liabilities under the Exchange Control Act in respect of assets denominated in the currency of the country of their nationality may obtain per- mission for exempted cash balances and the sale proceeds of exempted securities to be treated as investment currency. Residents of the United Kingdom who receive non-Sterling Area currency other than Rhodesian pounds from the sale to nonresidents of house property outside the Sterling Area except in Rho- desia may obtain permission from the Bank of England for the currency to be treated as property currency. The currency, which is transferable to other residents, may, subject to individual approval, be used for purchases of house prop- erty outside the Sterling Area except in Rhodesia. With respect to outward capital transfers, there is a program of voluntary restraint on direct and portfolio investment in the more developed coun- tries of the Sterling Area (Australia, the Irish Republic, New Zealand, and South Africa). Firms 17 A s im i lar 25 per cent requirement normally applies to transactions by residents of other parts of the Sterling Area; however, for securities owned prior to April 7, 1965, or any other foreign currency securities derived therefrom by way of "switches," the requirement applies only on outright sales for sterling or for reinvestment in sterling securities. 519 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM and individuals wishing to proceed with direct investment are asked to consult the Bank of England regarding any investment over <£25,000. The Bank will examine their plans to see whether they promise an early, substantial, and continuing benefit to the United Kingdom's balance of pay- ments, the criterion being the same as that applied to direct investments outside the Sterling Area (see below). Proposals are readily acceptable where this criterion is met. Otherwise applicants are asked to finance the investment by appropriate borrowing abroad or by using normally retained profits, i.e., the average level retained over a representative period in the recent past. The aim for portfolio investment is that over a period of time there should be no significant increase above the level on May 3, 1966 in total holdings by any one institutional investor of securities denomi- nated in the currencies of the four Sterling Area countries mentioned. There are no restrictions on capital transfers by residents of the United King- dom to the other Sterling Area countries, except Hong Kong (see section on Exchange Control Territory, above). All capital transfers by residents to countries outside the Sterling Area require approval. Each ind iv idual resident of the United Kingdom may, from his own resources, make cash gifts not exceeding a total of <£50,18 or the equivalent in foreign currency, during each calendar year to nonresidents. The cash gifts allowance is noncu- mulative and is not transferable from one resident to another. For security reasons, no capital transfers are allowed to Rhodesia, whether in the form of direct investment or of the purchase of Rhode- sian securities, or by any other means. For direct investments outside the Sterling Area, official exchange is normally made available only for cer- tain projects directly concerned with promoting exports of goods and services where the prospec- tive benefit to the U.K. balance of payments is expected to equal or exceed the total cost of the investment within 18 months and to continue thereafter; this benefit will normally occur by way of additional export receipts, but may also arise from profits and other foreign currency receipts 18 Increased to £300 on Janua ry 2, 1970. 520 that would not take place without the investment. For such projects ("super criterion projects"), official exchange may be made available up to <£ 50,000 or 50 per cent of the total investment, whichever is larger; any balance must be financed by foreign currency borrowing, the use of invest- ment currency, or the export free of payment of capital equipment and initial stock-in-trade. Direct investments which either do not exceed <£ 25,000 or, if larger, promise an early, substantial benefit to the U.K. balance of payments at least equal- ling the cost of the original capital outlay within two to three years and continuing thereafter ("normal criterion projects") may be financed by purchasing investment currency, by exports free of payment of capital equipment and initial stock- in-trade, or by borrowing non-Sterling Area cur- rency. Other approved direct investments in excess of £25,000 ("non-criterion projects") must be financed by long-term borrowing (i.e., for at least five years) in non-Sterling Area cur- rencies, including nonresident-owned foreign cur- rency deposits with U.K. banks. The purchase of foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area must be financed with investment currency or, in some cases, by long-term borrowing outside the Sterling Area; purchases of marketable foreign currency securi- ties with investment currency are freely permitted by virtue of certain general permissions granted to banks, stockbrokers, and other authorized depositories. Purchases from other residents may also be effected with sterling on a U.K. stock exchange (sterling prices reflect the prevailing investment currency premium). The purchase by U.K. residents of a house or apartment for personal use in countries outside the Sterling Area requires specific approval and must be made either from another U.K. resident for sterling or from a nonresident with property currency; payment for attendant expenses and improvements, but not maintenance, must also be made with property currency. Approval is nor- mally limited to one property a family, and pur- chases of property currency are limited to reason- able amounts. All proceeds from the realization, redemption, or ma tur i ty of sterling capital assets (including direct investments) owned by nonresidents other ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution than residents of Rhodesia are remittable at the official rate of exchange. Payments to nonresident beneficiaries are authorized freely in respect of inheritances due from the estates of deceased res- idents; so also are capital payments under life and other insurance policies taken up by nonresi- dents with resident insurance companies. Residents of the United Kingdom who leave with the intention of residing for at least three years in a country outside the Sterling Area and apply to transfer their assets are, on their depar- ture from the United Kingdom, regarded for exchange control purposes as nonresidents, and, with the following exceptions, their assets are treated accordingly. Repatriates (non-Sterling Area nationals, other than Rhodesians, who having been resident in the United Kingdom return to take up residence in their country of nationality) may normally transfer all their ster- ling assets abroad at the official rate of exchange. Other residents leaving to take up residence in countries outside the Sterling Area except Rho- desia are granted a settling-in allowance of up to £5,000 in foreign exchange for a family unit and may export any foreign currency securities they hold; the remaining declared assets in excess of £5,000 are restricted for a four-year period from the date of the departing person's redesigna- tion as a nonresident. During that period the funds may be disposed of for non-Sterling Area cur- rencies other than Rhodesian pounds through the investment currency market, or may be invested in any sterling securities, the income therefrom being freely remittable through the official exchange market. After the four-year period any remaining assets are transferable in accordance with the rules then applicable to the assets of a nonresident. The participation of foreign capital as a direct investment in the United Kingdom is subject to individual authorization, which is normally granted, provided that adequate capital for the project is supplied in an approved manner of payment (see section on Prescription of Cur- rency, above) or by the import of goods and services; the non-Sterling Area currency received must be surrendered at rates ruling in the official market. Cases involving the take-over of existing companies that by their size or nature constitute a vital part of British industry are considered on UNITED KINGDOM their merits. Permissions given for direct invest- men ts in the United Kingdom by nonresidents are, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank of England, conditional on the consideration being paid in sterling from an External Account or in non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhode- sian pounds) and any subsequent finance being similarly provided at least in proportion to the nonresident interest in the equity of the company. Foreign-owned firms and foreign individuals must obtain Treasury permission in order to raise capital in the United Kingdom, and U.K. resident subsidiaries of foreign companies are required to obtain consent f rom the Treasury before borrow- ing in the United Kingdom or before issuing shares or other securities to nonresidents. Such permission is normally given for borrowing for the purpose of financing the company's day-to- day business, but is not normally given for any expansion of manu fac tu r ing capacity except for companies whose activities are regarded as bring- ing special advantages to the U.K. economy. Under certain permissions delegated to au- thorized depositories, transactions in securities of all types may generally be carried out freely between residents of the United Kingdom, except that transactions in Rhodesian securities may only be effected on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom. Residents are normally permitted, subject to certain conditions, to sell foreign currency securities outside the Sterling Area, and, after 25 per cent of the proceeds has been sold to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange, to reinvest the balance of the exchange proceeds (investment currency) in other marketable foreign currency securities, or to sell the exchange to other resi- dents for such investments or for approved direct investments outside the Sterling Area which qual- ify for investment currency. When foreign cur- rency securities are sold on a U.K. stock exchange for sterling, an amount of investment currency in the form of non-Sterling Area cur- rency (other than Rhodesian pounds) equivalent to 25 per cent of the sale proceeds must be pur- chased in the investment currency market for resale to an authorized bank at the official market rate of exchange. Professional dealers making a "book" and certain institutional investors may on application be exempt from the 25 per cent 521 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM requirement for certain of their operations.19 Investment currency held for a continuous period of six months ceases to be investment currency unless an amount of investment currency in the form of non-Sterling Area currency (other than Rhodesian pounds) equivalent to 25 per cent of the amount held is, at the end of the six-month period, sold to an authorized bank at the current ma rket rate in the official foreign exchange ma rke t. Investment currency may only be retained as inves tment currency for a max imum of twelve months, a f ter which period any amount rema in ing must be offered for sale to an author- ized bank at the current ma rket rate in the official foreign exchange ma rke t .20 U .K. invest- ment trusts, un it trusts, and certain other ins t i tu- tional investors are permitted, subject to certain conditions, to borrow non-Sterling Area currency for the purpose of mak ing portfolio investments in marketable foreign currency securities. U.K. jobbers and other security dealers may, with per- mission, arrange day-to-day borrowing of non- Sterling Area currency, whether from U .K. banks or from nonresidents, to finance a "book" in for- eign currency securities, but not to finance hold- ings of such securities as investments. Residents of other parts of the Sterling Area are not prevented by the U.K. regulations from buy ing and selling sterling securities in the United Kingdom; they may also buy and sell, subject to certain conditions, Rhodesian securities on a recognized stock exchange in the United Kingdom, but they must obtain the permission of the U.K. authorities to buy and sell other securities in the United Kingdom. Permission is required for all transfers of securities in the United Kingdom in which a non- resident is involved as either transferor or trans- feree, but most transfers are covered by a general authority. In most cases, U.K. companies may issue sterling securities ( inc lud ing bearer secu- 19 Ma in ly inves tment t ru s ts and members of the insu r- ance marke t. 20 Inves tment cu r rency may be inves ted t empo r a r i ly in short-term government bonds (w i th up to s ix m o n t hs to run before f inal m a t u r i t y) or in s ix -mon th t rea su ry b i l ls or other forms of recognized sho r t - te rm money m a rk et paper ( i n c l u d i ng certificates of depo s i t) w i thout i n c u r- ring the need to comp ly w i th the 25 per cent r e q u i r em e nt on resale of the paper. 522 rities) under a general permission given by the U.K. authorities. Nonresidents except Rhodesian residents may buy any securities ( inc lud ing officially quoted for- eign currency securities) on a recognized stock exchange in the Un i ted Kingdom against payment in foreign currency or from an External Account. Securities so purchased may be exported from the United Kingdom. Foreign currency securities may be sold by nonresidents on a stock exchange in the United Kingdom for settlement only in non-Ster- ling Area currency. In no circumstances may settlement be in sterling. Nonresidents must obtain permission to buy securities in the United King- dom other than on a stock exchange, whether or not the securities are quoted on a stock exchange. Nonresidents other than Rhodesian residents may sell sterling securities in the United Kingdom for Ex ternal Account sterling and freely transfer the proceeds abroad at official market rates. All transac t ions in securities by or on behalf of resi- dents of Rhodesia require the specific approval of the Bank of England. Wa r ran ts issued by registrars, company secre- taries, and pay ing agents in respect of capital paymen ts on ma tu red securities registered in the names of nonres iden ts other than Rhodesian resi- den ts may be dispatched freely to addressees out- side the Sterling Area, and these warrants may be paid by c red i t ing sterling to an External Account. Au tho r ized banks may freely accept non-Ster- l ing Area currencies from nonresidents of the Sterling Area for deposit; such deposits may be re-lent to other nonresidents or switched into sterling and made available to domestic borrowers. Individual ceilings are set, however, on each bank's open position and on the amount of spot assets which may be held against forward liabilities in non-Sterling Area currencies. Gold Residents of the United Kingdom may not buy, hold, or sell gold bullion or gold coin without permission. General exemption from these restric- tions has been given in respect of gold coins m in ted in or before 1837. In addition, no resi- dent is allowed to hold more than four gold coins m in ted a f ter 1837, and which were in his posses- sion on Ap r il 26, 1966, without special exchange ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution control permission; sales of post-1837 gold coins also require permission unless made at the cur- rent London market price through an authorized dealer in gold or a trader in coin or a coin dealer or auctioneer specifically authorized. With these exceptions, residents of the United Kingdom other than the monetary authorities and author- ized industrial and professional users are not per- mitted to purchase, hold, or sell gold in any form other than jewelry, whether at home or abroad, unless they are specifically or generally permitted to do so; permission is granted restrictively and is generally limited to established genuine domestic requirements for industrial and professional pur- poses, and, for gold coins, to numismatists authorized to ma in ta in a collection of gold coins. The manu fac tu re of medals, medallions (includ- ing im i ta t ion coins), plaques, and other pieces in pictorial relief or bearing inscriptions is not per- mitted except for export and for academic and sporting awards, and for pieces weighing 5 pen- nyweights or less or of a value not more than £2 10s. Od. The M int from time to time strikes gold sover- eigns. Although legal tender, these do not circu- late in the United Kingdom. Except under license granted by the Treasury, it is an offense to melt down or break up any metal coin which is for the time being current in the United Kingdom or which, having been cur- rent there, has at any time after May 16, 1969 ceased to be so. The import by any resident of the United Kingdom of gold bullion and gold coins minted over 100 years ago is on Open General License, but the holding of, or dealing with, such bullion or coins is subject to restrictions, as stated above. The import of gold coins minted less than 100 years ago is restricted to authorized dealers in gold holding the necessary license from the Board of Trade. The export of gold bullion and all gold coins requires prior exchange control approval. Authority has been given to authorized dealers in gold to issue licenses in respect of exports of gold bullion and coin purchased by any non-Sterling Area resident in the London gold market against payment in External Account sterling or non- Sterling Area currency. A license is required from the Board of Trade for the export of gold UNITED KINGDOM jewe lry, etc., containing diamonds. The export of gold in manu fac tu red form over 100 years old and valued at <£ 2,000 and over also requires a Board of Trade license. The import of medals, medallions, plaques, and the like, exceeding 5 pennyweights in weight or «£2 10s. Od. in value, is prohibited from all sources. Other manufactures of gold may be imported without quantitative restriction under the open general license from all sources except the Eastern Area (see footnote 7) and Rhodesia. Gold medals, medallions, plaques, and the like weighing 5 pennyweights or less or £2 10s. Od. or less in value may be imported without restric- tion on open general license from the Eastern Area. All other semimanufactures or articles of gold require an individual import license when imported from the Eastern Area. There is a free gold market in London in which gold bars are freely traded among (1) authorized dealers in gold, (2) any nonresidents of the Sterling Area, and (3) residents of the Sterling Area who are sellers of new production. The U.K. authorities do not intervene in the market as either buyers or sellers. A commission of 1A of 1 per cent is charged on all purchases; there is no commission on sales. The market operates on a spot cash basis. Authorized banks may not enter into forward transactions in gold without prior permission from the Bank of England. Banks may not finance purchases of gold by nonresidents by lending foreign exchange or by accepting gold as collateral for advances in non-Sterling Area cur- rencies or External Account sterling to nonresi- dents of the Sterling Area. Change» during 1969 January 1. All quota levels for imports of cot- ton textiles in 1969 were increased by 1 per cent over the 1968 level. February 14. It was announced that the nationalized industries would be encouraged to meet part of their capital requirements by medium-term or long-term borrowing outside the Sterling Area. February 14. The Treasury undertook, in appropriate cases, to provide an exchange rate 523 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED KINGDOM guarantee in respect of foreign currency borrow- ing by nationalized industries. February 26. Special requirements were intro- duced for foreign currency sales by authorized banks to banks in Kuwait, the Persian Gulf Sheikdoms, Jordan, and the Libyan Arab Repub- lic. March 20. It was announced that the amount of bu t ter imports permitted in the year to April 1970 would be 397,000 tons, compared with total authorizations in 1968-69 of 462,000 tons. The global quota for "near butters" and butter fat m ix tures would continue unchanged. The system of basic quotas for butter, together with supplementary authorizations, was suspended. April 1. A new memorandum of understanding on the supply of bacon to the U.K. ma rket went into effec t, replacing that of March 11, 1964. The other signatories were Denmark, Hungary, the Irish Republic, the Netherlands, Poland, Rumania, Sweden, and Yugoslavia. April 15. The program of voluntary restraint on certain portfolio investment by institutional investors was discontinued in respect of foreign currency securities. April 30. The Jute Control ceased to operate. All imports of ju te goods, irrespective of origin, reverted to private trade. Restrictions were eased on imports of such goods that were not liberal- ized. May 1. The Customs Duties (Dumping and Subsidies) Act 1969 came into force. May 1. Quantitative restrictions were removed from a range of goods when of Ruman ian or U.S.S.R. origin. The goods were those which had already been freed from restriction when imported from Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Hun- gary, and Poland. May 1. It was announced that from October 1, 1969 imports of unprocessed meat from certain South American countries would be restricted to boneless beef. May 6. New arrangements were agreed gov- erning the Bank of England's facilities for refinancing medium-term and long-term export credit and lending for domestic shipbuilding. 524 They consolidated two of the earlier refinancing schemes and replaced the third one. They also incorporated certain modifications to those earlier schemes agreed upon in principle in November 1968, the ma in effect of which was to provide the clearing and Scottish banks henceforth with auto- matic access to refinance where fixed-rate lending for exports and shipbuilding is absorbing more than a defined share of their total resources. Part I of the new arrangements extended the basic re f inanc ing scheme for medium-term and long- term export credits, first introduced in 1961, to cover fixed-rate lending for shipbuilding. Part II replaced the supplementary refinance facility extended in 1965 (but which would not have become operative before 1970) for fixed-rate export credit of more than five years' duration as well as part of the 1967 facility for refinancing fixed-rate lending for shipbuilding. A bank could henceforth refinance the total of fixed-rate lending for either purpose up to the amount of eligible lending (other than that refinanceable under Part I) in excess of 5 per cent of the bank's total gross deposits. May 19. A cotton futures market was opened in London. The standard contract was in terms of U.S. dollars. (In March 1970, it was announced that a sterling futures contract would be introduced on April 1, 1970, and that the U.S. dollar fu tu res contract would cease to be quoted on or before December 31, 1970.) May 23. The Export Credits Guarantee Department was prepared to give guarantees to banks for buyer credit relating to capital goods with a m in imum contract value of £ 1 million. June 14. The British Steel Corporation discon- tinued its loyalty rebate on exports of sheet steel. June 16. The export of iron and steel scrap was restricted. June 20. The Board of Trade announced that it would not impose antidumping or countervail- ing duties on cheese. The decision followed agreements reached with nine of the main sup- plier countries for voluntary restraint on cheese exports to the United Kingdom. Total imports during the period from April 1, 1968 to March 31, 1970 would be some 240,000 tons. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution June 23. The Government announced that it intended to maintain the present degree of trade liberalization and to abolish, as soon as the bal- ance of payments allowed, the restrictions on travel expenditure and small cash gifts and also the import deposit scheme. July 1. A long-term agreement with the U.S.S.R. came into force. It was in general terms and, un l ike the 1959 agreement, did not provide for a balanced exchange of facilities for the importation of consumer goods into each country. July 10. It was announced that the Bank of England would coordinate and control foreign currency borrowing by the nationalized industries and local authorities in the light of availability of funds and market conditions. July 18. Control on "near butter" was extended to suostances containing 50 per cent or more by weight of hydrogenated or physically or chemi- cally modified butter fat. July 22. It was announced that with effect from January 1, 1972 a tariff on imports of cotton textiles from the Commonwealth prefer- ence area would be introduced to replace the existing quota system for such imports. The level of the tar iff would be 6.5 per cent on yarn, 15 per cent on cloth, and 17 per cent on most gar- ments. July 23. It was announced that imports of boneless beef from non-Commonwealth prefer- ence areas would be freed from quantitative restrictions but would be subject to import duty at an increased rate of 20 per cent, which was to be reduced to 5 per cent from October 1, 1969. August 5. A memorandum of understanding on the import of cereals into the United Kingdom was signed with the U.S.S.R. The latter became a cooperative country under the minimum import price arrangement for cereals. October 1. An embargo for health reasons was imposed on the import of beef on the bone from all countries where foot and mouth disease is endemic. The import duty on boned or boneless beef and veal was reduced from 20 per cent to 5 per cent. UNITED KINGDOM October 1. The banks increased most lending rates but stated that the special 5l/2 per cent rate charged for medium-term and long-term export and shipbuilding credits, and the arrangements for the provision of short-term export finance at the bank rate, would continue. November 1. The basic travel allowance for the next 12-month period remained unchanged at the equivalent of .£50 a person. November 13. The Minister of Agriculture reserved the right to impose a higher import levy retrospectively if the volume of cereals forward contracts received for registration on a particular day would result in such heavy imports of cheap grain as to undermine the basic purpose of the m in imum import price scheme for cereals. November 14. Authorized banks were required to refer to the Bank of England all applications to pay to nonresidents of the Sterling Area pro- fessional fees or charges in connection with the acquisition, disposal, and management of direct investments outside the Sterling Area. November 28. It was announced that the liber- alization measures already applying to imports from the U.S.S.R. and other Eastern European countries would be extended to Eastern Germany w i th effect from January 1, 1970. December 4. It was announced that members of the London bullion market who deal in silver had agreed, after discussions with the Bank of England, to reduce within six months their stocks of silver financed in sterling to a level equivalent to that at the end of 1968. December 5. The import deposit scheme was continued for a fur ther period of 12 months but the rate of deposit was reduced from 50 per cent to 40 per cent of the value of the goods. December 17. In view of certain blocking measures taken in Rhodesia, authorized banks were permitted to approve applications by resi- dents of the United Kingdom to retain dividends and interest due to them on their Rhodesian assets on accounts in their names with banks in Rhodesia. 525 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES Exchange Rate System The par value of the United States Dollar is 15%! grains of gold %0 fine (0.888671 gram of fine gold), which is equivalent to US$35 a fine ounce, at which price (exclusive of hand l ing charges and expenses) the Treasury buys gold only f rom official sources and sells it only to gov- ernments and central banks abroad, and, under certain circumstances, to in terna t ional institu- tions, for the settlement of in terna t ional balances and other legitimate monetary purposes. There are no restrictions on foreign paymen ts, except those imposed for security reasons on transac- tions involving the authorities or nationals of ma in land Ch ina, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, and those imposed pu r su ant to UN Security Council Resolutions Nos. 232 and 253 on any transfer of funds to, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of any person in Rhodesia ( inc lud ing the authorities thereof). The United States notified the Fund on Decem- ber 10, 1946 that it was prepared to accept the obligations of Article VIII, Sections 2, 3, and 4, of the Fund Agreement. Administration of Control The Treasury Department deals with license applications for transactions involving the author- ities or nationals of ma in land China, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, as specified under the Foreign Assets Control Regulations; it is also in charge of licensing transactions invo lv ing the authorities or nationals of Cuba, under the Cuban Assets Control Regulations. That Department also administers the controls on transfers to Rho- desia by a licensing program under the Rhodesia Sanctions Regulations. The foreign d irect invest- ment program is administered by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments in the Depar tment of Commerce. The Federal Reserve Board adminis- ters the vo lun tary foreign credit restraint program for banks and other financial ins t i tu t ions. The Bureau of Customs of the Treasury Depar tment administers import quotas for certain commodi- ties, including certain wheat and wheat products. Import quotas on specified dairy products are administered by the Department of Agriculture 526 through the issuance of import licenses and spe- cial permits. The import quotas on sugar are allotted among eligible exporting coun tr ies in accordance w i th a s ta tu tory fo rmu la administered by the Department of Agriculture and are pro- rated among eligible importers under regulations administered by that Department. Licenses for imports of crude petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts are issued by the Depar tment of the Interior. For items subject to export control, the Depart- ment of Commerce is, in general, the responsible authority. imports and import Payments The importation of merchandise, as well as payment therefor, is prohibited unless licensed, if such merchandise is of mainland Chinese, Cuban, North Korean, North Vietnamese, or Rhodesian origin. In add i t ion, this prohibition applies to specified commodities presumptively of mainland Chinese origin imported from any country and to certain other commodities if imported from the U.S.S.R., the communist countries of Eastern Europe, not including Yugoslavia, or from Hong Kong or Macao. The prohibition does not apply to goods of ma in land Chinese origin when imported for noncommercial purposes by travel- ers. Import quotas are in effect, pursuant to Section 22 of the Agricultural Adjustment Act, as amended, for cotton, certain cotton waste, and certain semiprocessed cotton products, wheat and wheat products, most dairy products, and pea- nu ts. With the exception of the import quo tas for peanuts, certain cotton and cotton products, and a specified portion of the quota for Cheddar cheese, the quotas above and those for sugar (pu r suant to special legislation) are on a coun- try-of-production basis. Under the revised U.S.- Philippine Trade Agreement, import duties appli- cable to the Philippines in the period 1968-70 are 60 per cent of the lowest U.S. rate on all Philippine products. Imports of Philippine cor- dage, along w i th sugar, are subject to absolute quotas. Imports of Philippine coconut oil, scrap and filler tobacco, cigars, and pearl or shell but- tons are du ty free w i th in specified limits, with any overlap subject to 100 per cent of the lowest ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution U.S. rate. The United States is a party to the Long-Term Cotton Textiles Arrangement, which authorizes importing countries to request export- ing countries to limit or restrain exports of cotton textiles under specified conditions, and, if the exporting country does not accede, to impose an import quota. The United States has concluded comprehensive bilateral agreements governing cotton textile imports from certain ma jor supply- ing countries and has unilaterally imposed restraints on specific cotton textile products from a few other countries. Global quotas are imposed on imports of crude petroleum and pe tro leum products, except those imported overland (i.e., by pipeline, motor carrier, or r a i l ), which are included w i th in the permitted import level but are not subject to allocation and licensing requirements.1 In practice imports of residual fuel oil for burn ing are v i r tua l ly unrestricted in District I. No tw i ths tand ing the oil import program, the Secretary of the Interior has discretionary au- thor i ty to allow increased imports of finished as- phalt. Most imports of meat are governed by bilateral agreements aimed at preventing total imports from reaching the level at which manda- tory quotas would have to be imposed under the Meat Import Act of 1964. The transfer of funds to Rhodesia for most purposes (see section on Exchange Rate System, above) is permitted only under license. Other payments and transfers abroad may be made freely, with certain exceptions which are permit- ted only under license; these are payments to or for the account of the authorities or nationals of mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam. Exports and Export Proceeds Munitions can be exported only under license issued by the Office of Munitions Control in the Department of State. Exports of certain types of silver are prohibited by the Treasury Department. Licenses are not granted for exports of arms and ammun i t ion to South Africa. Most exports to Rhodesia require licenses and generally no licen- ses are issued except for food and human i ta r ian items. Exports (except designated nonstrategic 1 Early in 1970, restrictions were imposed on certain imports of petroleum from Canada. UNITED STATES goods) to the U.S.S.R. and the countries of East- ern Europe other than Yugoslavia, and all exports (except phonograph records, publications, and, to Cuba, limited gift parcels) to mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, and North Viet-Nam, are subject to individual validated licenses. Exports of designated strategic materials and equipment to all other countries (except Canada) also requ i re ind iv idual validated licenses. For many commodities, when exported to Western European countries, Australia, or Japan, single distribution licenses may be obtained to cover a f u ll year's shipments. The licensing requirements applicable to Poland and Rumania are less restrictive than those applicable to other Eastern European countries (except Yugoslavia); within th is group of other Eastern European countries, the requirements are restrictive on certain items for Eastern Germany. Exports of certain com- modities to all destinations have from time to time been subject to control for reasons of short supply; copper and nickel are the only commodi- ties currently under short supply export con- trol. The proceeds of exports are not subject to exchange control. Payments for and Proceeds front Invisibles These are not restricted, except that they are prohibited to and from ma in land China, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, and Rhodesia. As regards Rhodesia, they are restricted where they are related to prohibited or licensed transactions. Capital Incoming or outgoing capital payments by resi- dents or nonresidents are not subject to exchange control. However, as noted above, there are restrictions on certain transactions with or involv- ing mainland China, Cuba, North Korea, North Viet-Nam, and Rhodesia. U.S. purchasers of foreign securities (including shares in offshore mu tual fund s) are subject to an Interest Equalization Tax equivalent to a borrowing charge of 3A of 1 per cent a year (11.25 per cent for certain acquisitions of stock and 0.79 per cent to 11.25 per cent, depending on maturity, for certain acquisitions of debt obli- gations, including bank loans, with a period 527 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES remaining to maturity of one year or more). Major exemptions from the tax are direct invest- ments, investments in less developed countries,2 purchases from other U.S. holders, debt obliga- tions acquired in connection with exports, and the purchase of original or new issues when the President of the United States determines that the application of the tax will have such conse- quences for a foreign country as to imperil or ¿reaten to imperil the stability of the interna- tional monetary system, pursuant to which new or original Canadian security issues are exempt, as are —up to an aggregate amount of US$100 million a year —new securities issued or guaran- teed by the Government of Japan as well as cer- tain new issues by Japanese firms that are not guaranteed by that Government. Also exempt are bank loans of all maturities to Canada and loans with maturities of more than one year, whether denominated in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, that are made by foreign branches of U.S. banks to foreign borrowers. A voluntary foreign credit restraint program has resulted in the establishment of "guidelines" for banks and nonbank financial institutions in respect of their foreign assets. A mandatory for- eign direct investment program has placed restraints on direct investment by setting annual limits on net capital outflow plus reinvested earn- ings, prescribing the repatriation of roughly the same share of total earnings as was repatriated in the base period,3 and requiring the repatriation and limitation of certain short-term financial assets held abroad by direct investors. A direct investor is defined as a person within the United 2 Among other countries the tax is applicable to Abu Dhabi, Bahama Islands, Bahrain, Bermuda, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neu t ral Zone, Libyan Arab Repub- lic, Qatar, and Saudia Arabia. The law provides that the following cannot be designated as less developed coun- tries: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. The only European countries at present designated as less devel- oped countries are Cyprus, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Malta, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. 3 Where the regulations require a company to repatri- ate more income than is allowed by host country laws or by business circumstances, such as certain joint owner- ship situations, unconditional specific relief may be granted by the Office of Foreign Direct Investments. 528 States who directly or indirectly owns or acquires 10 per cent or more of the voting power, right to receive income, or right to receive assets on liqui- dation of a foreign national. Three regional ceil- ings are enforced on the making of direct invest- ment during any year: one for less developed countries;4 one for other countries judged to be dependent on a substantial continuing inflow of capital that cannot be adequately met from non- U.S. sources;5 and one for all other countries.6 There is an embargo on net capital outflows to the whole of the last group of countries, which includes most of continental Europe, except Fin- land, Greece, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. Funds raised abroad may be used to finance direct investments without charge against a company's ceilings. Canada is exempt from all balance of payments restraints, except for the application of the Interest Equalization Tax to some transac- tions. Gold Residents may purchase, hold, and sell domes- tic and foreign gold coins situated in the United States and minted before April 5, 1933. Gold coins minted after this date may be held if they have been determined to be of recognized special value to collectors. Licenses are required to import any gold coins minted in or after 1934, and generally are available only for gold coins of exceptional numismatic value. Import licenses are not issued for coins minted in 1960 or after. The import of counterfeit coins and restrikes is pro- hibited. Gold bullion may not be held in the United States except by monetary authorities and licensed industrial, professional, and artistic users. The purchase or holding of gold abroad by U.S. citizens and firms is also prohibited except under license for industrial, professional, or artistic use. Licensing authority is vested in the Secretary of the Treasury. Producers of gold may sell their 4 As defined for the purposes of the Interest Equaliza- tion Tax (see footnote 2). They are referred to as Schedule A countries. 5 Abu Dhabi, Australia, Bahama Islands, Bahrain, Ber- muda, Canada, Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Japan, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libyan Arab Republic, New Zealand, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Kingdom. They are referred to as Schedule B countries. s Referred to as Schedule C countries. In April 1970, Spain was shifted from Schedule C to Schedule B; the change was retroactive to January 1, 1970. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution output at free market prices either to licensed industrial users or abroad (except to mone tary authorities). The Treasury buys and sells gold only in transactions with governments, central banks, and international institutions; all transac- tions are at US$35 an ounce. Gold may be freely imported by licensed users within the limitations of their authorized inventory holding. A license is required for the export of gold except gold recovered from na tu ral deposits in the United States, which may be exported w i thout license; the export of domestic gold coins minted a f ter 1932 is not normally permitted. Commercial imports of gold jewelry and of articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold, such as watches, are free of quan t i ta t ive restriction. Imports and exports of gold coins and gold bullion are free of customs duties and other fiscal charges. Domestic sales of jewelry, including gold jewelry, are sub- ject to excise du ty at the rate of 15 per cent, while domestic sales of gold in any other form, including rare gold coins, are free of fiscal charges. Changes during 1969 January 7. The Foreign Direct Investment Pro- gram for 1969 went into effect. The "target ceil- ing" for the year was US$2.95 billion, compared w i th US$2.6 billion in 1968. The new target level was intended to ensure that every direct investor had in 1969 an investment quota of at least 20 per cent of its 1968 earnings from foreign direct investment. An additional "incremental earnings" allowable was introduced, based on the world-wide growth in earnings of a company's foreign a f f i l i- ates. At the same time, the requirements w i th respect to repatriation of earnings in Schedule C countries were eased by allowing companies to substitute other fo rms of capital flows to the United States, including repayment of intercom- pany indebtedness. Additional flexibility was introduced in the determination of investment quotas for 1969; a firm could elect an investment allowable for each scheduled area equal to 20 per cent of its 1968 earnings in the area concerned, in preference to the base period formu la. Increased sh i f t ing was permitted among the three scheduled geographi- cal areas; companies with an uneven distribution of quotas were permitted to transfer unneeded UNITED STATES quotas to any scheduled area, provided that their resulting quo ta was less than 20 per cent of the 1968 earnings in that area. Possibilities of invest- ment in less developed countries were increased. January 1. The Departments of Agriculture and the Interior announced tha t, for the three years 1969-71, export sales of t imber cut on fed- erally owned land in all western states would be limited to less than half of the 1968 level. January 2. Shipments to Canada of copper scrap and copper-base alloy ingots were placed under "short supply" export controls. "Short supply" export quotas for copper and related products to all other destinations would be con- tinued unchanged until June 30, 1969. January 8. The Secretary of Agriculture announced new fixed annual quotas on imports of canned milk and certain processed cheeses (pre- viously subject to temporary quo tas), and choco- late milk crumb and butterfat-sugar mixtures. The import control system now covered all cows' m i lk da iry products except Emmentaler-Gruyère processed cheese and other specialty cheeses cost- ing more than 47 U.S. cents a pound. January 9. In conformity with the UN Security Council Resolution No. 253, sanctions against trade w i th Rhodesia were extended to prohibit v i r tua l ly all financial and trade transactions with th at country. January 13. The Secretary of Agriculture announced a subsidy of 2 U.S. cents a pound (about 25 per cent of the delivered export price) for U.S. lard sold in the United Kingdom. The subsidy was introduced in response to similar action on the pa rt of certain EEC countries. The rate of the subsidy would be fixed for two weeks at a time. January 13. The FRB announced an amendment to Regulation K, modifying with effect from Jan- uary 7 its 1968 regulations on overseas investment and lending by "Edge" and "Agreement" corpor- tions that are domestic subsidiaries of U.S. banks. Such subsidiaries would be allowed to invest up to US$500,000 in the stock of any foreign firm not operating in the United States, but not over 10 per cent of its capital and surplus (or 15 per cent if the subsidiary were a bank i tse l f) and not more than 25 per cent of the stock of a foreign firm. Investments in excess of these l im i ts required specific FRB consent. 529 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES January 14. Major Japanese and European steel exporters announced a vo lun ta ry agreement to l im it the growth of exports to the Un i ted States to 5 per cent in each of the three years 1969, 1970, and 1971 on cond i t ion that the United States did not restrict steel imports by adopting import quo tas, by increas ing ta r i f f s, or by other means. January 17. Regulations affec t ing exports and re-exports of techn ical data were sub s tan t ia l ly s imp l if ied. February 1. Coun te rva i l ing du t ies on imports f rom France were w i thd r awn fo l low ing the elimi- na t ion of French export subsidies. February 17. The Office of Foreign Direct Inves tment (OFD I) announced a l im i ted l ibera l i- zation of controls on foreign d irect inv e s tm en t: a company engaged in in terna t ional construction would be allowed to exceed its 1969 foreign inves tment quota if the contract was for the U.S. Government or if long-term foreign financing was unava i lab le on "reasonable terms"; inve s tment quo tas of such companies could be t rans fe r red among the three scheduled categories of coun t r ies to meet con t rac tual obligations; and bid prepara- tion expenses wou ld not be subject to inves tment controls. April 4. Re troac t ive to J a n u a ry 1, 1969, the OFDI raised the m i n im um fore ign inves tment allowable exemp t ion f rom US$200,000 to US$1 m i l l ion. The allowable could hence fo r th be applied on a world-wide basis. Companies could choose an a l te rna t ive ce i l ing ("optional ea rn ings a l lowa- ble") equal to 30 per cent of 1968 ea rn ings of foreign a f f i l ia te s. Special t rea tment was proposed for ex t rac t ive indu s t r i es (w i t h d r awn on June 23) and for a i r l ine s. Small and medium-sized inves- tors were requ ired to file only one report in 1969 ra ther th an qua r te r ly reports. As a result of these and other changes in the program, the authorized amount of direct inves tment under the program was increased from US$2.6 billion in 1968 and the earlier 1969 "target ceiling" of US$2.95 bil- lion to US$3.35 billion for 1969. April 4. Retroactive to J anu a ry 1, 1969, the FRB revised its foreign credit res tra int guidelines of December 23, 1968. By pe rm i t t ing banks to re ta in the ir gu ide l ines ce i l ing or to adopt a new ceiling equal to 11/2 per cent of the ir total assets, 530 the aggregate ceiling was raised by about US$400 m i l l ion above the US$9.7 b i l l ion figure for the end of 1968. Ceilings for nonbank financial in s t i tu t ions were raised f rom 95 per cent to 100 per cent of the ir end-of-1967 base. This change increased ceilings by about US$40 m i l l ion, compared w i th end-of-1968 inve s tmen ts under the re s t ra int of US$1.4 b i l l ion. W i th these revised gu ide l ines, the FRB dropped the request that banks avoid re- strictive polices th at wou ld place an u n d ue bu rden on Japan or the Un i ted K ingdom. (The Decem- ber 23 guidelines had been as fo l lows: The FRB program for f inanc ial i n s t i t u t i o ns con t inued for 1969 the vo lun ta ry ce i l ings for b ank loans wh ich were in effect dur ing 1968 (in genera l, 103 per cent of the December 31, 1964 ba se ), and called for c o n t i n u i ng res t ra int on te rm loans to res iden ts of developed coun tr ies of con t in en t al Western Europe. Under the revised gu ide l ines, however, banks were pe rm i t ted to make equ i ty inve s tmen ts in those coun t r ies w i t h in the ir general ceilings. The banks were also asked to hold short- term credits to residents of developed countries of con t inen tal Western Europe to 60 per cent of the amount ou ts tand ing on December 31, 1967—i.e., to the level to which they were to be reduced under the 1968 program. For nonbank financial insti- tu t ions, the de f in i t ion of covered assets was un- changed, and the ceiling rema ined at 95 per cent of the base at the end of 1967.) April 4. The effective rate of the Interest Equa l iza t ion Tax was reduced f rom 11A per cent to 3A of 1 per cent a year. April 26. The Treasury announced that the gold coin import regulations had been revised to permit imports of gold coins m in ted before 1934 w i thout a license. Gold coins minted during or after 1934 could be imported only under licenses, and these were issued only for rare and unusual coins of recognized special value to collectors. Impo rt licenses would con t inue to be refused for gold coins minted in 1960 or after. April 30. The Treasury pointed out that the Gold Regulations applied not only to direct own- ership of gold but also to the acquisition of indi- rect interests in gold; thus it was illegal for Amer icans to acquire or hold securities issued by any company, including a mu tual fund, that holds gold as a subs tan t ial part of its assets and as a store of value, rather than for specific and cus- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES tomary industrial, professional, or artistic use. This prohibition was applicable to U.S. citizens wherever resident, noncitizens resident in the United States, and to U.S. companies. It was also noted that any share contracts denominated in gold, or in an amount of dollars measured in terms of gold, or convertible into gold, have been declared by Congress to be against public policy and are not enforceable in U.S. courts. May 12. The Treasury lifted its ban on the melting and export of silver coins. The weekly sale of silver would be opened to all competitive bidders w i thout restriction from May 27, but the amount of silver to be offered each week was reduced from 2 million ounces to UNITED STATES July 23. The Foreign Assets Control Regula- tions were modified to allow U.S. citizens travel- ing abroad to purchase up to US$100 worth of goods originating in ma in land China. July 28. The Interest Equalization Tax was extended temporarily from Ju ly 31 to August 31, 1969. July 31. The FRB amended Regulation D, which governs reserves of member banks. A member commercial bank would not be allowed to deduct from demand deposits, for the purpose of computing reserve requirements, any cash items in process of collection or balances due from other banks when these involved any account w i th or in a foreign branch of the member bank ("bills payable checks" and "London d ra f ts" ). August 6. The Export-Import Bank announced that it was prepared to guarantee the fu ll amount of foreign bank loans which help to finance U.S. exports. The Bank's guarantees were fo rme r ly provided only for loans from domestic banks. August 7. The OFDI announced that U.S. companies p lann ing foreign financing arrange- ments involving parallel domestic and foreign loans should discuss projects of this na ture with the OFDI in advance because specific authoriza- tion might be required under the Foreign Direct Investment Regulations. August 13. Effective the week of October 16, amendments to FRB Regulations D and M sub- jected U.S. banks' Euro-dollar borrowings over a base amount to a 10 per cent reserve require- ment. Under an amendment to Regulation M, which governs the foreign activities of member banks, U.S. banks would be required to hold in reserve 10 per cent of borrowings from their for- eign branches in excess of the da i ly average amount outstanding in the four weeks ending May 28. The same reserve requirement would apply to assets acquired by a foreign branch from the U.S. head office of the bank, except for assets representing credits extended by the head office to nonresidents after June 26. Euro-dollar bor- rowings from a bank's foreign branches below a m in imum base of 3 per cent of the bank's total deposits would be exempt from the new reserve requirement. If a bank's Euro-dollar borrowings 532 should drop below the May level, the base for re- serve purposes would be automatically lowered to the current level unless the bank obtained a spe- cific waiver from the Board. Foreign branch loans to U.S. residents would become subject to a 10 per cent reserve requirement to the extent that such loans exceeded either the amount outstanding on June 25 or June 26 or the daily average of amounts outstanding in the four weeks ending May 28. However, branches with less than US$5 million of loans to U.S. residents would be exempt from this requirement, as would credit extended to enable a borrower to comply with requirements of the OFDI, and credit extended under lending commitments entered into before June 27, 1969. Borrowings by member banks from foreign banks would be subject to Regulation D, which governs reserves of member banks. The reserve requirement against deposits of this kind would be 10 per cent, except where such deposits did not exceed 4 per cent of a member bank's daily average deposits subject to reserve requirements; in this case the reserve requirement would be only 3 per cent. August 15. The State Department announced that the United States would begin making fed- eral pension paymen ts to certain beneficiaries in Hungary. August 29. The Interest Equalization Tax was fu r th er extended to September 30, 1969. September 3. The OFDI announced that it would consider relief by specific authorization from direct investment charges resulting from tri- angu lar and parallel foreign financing arrange- ments. Such arrangements would be authorized if the direct investor filed a certificate with OFDI ind ica t ing that the foreign company or its U.S. a f f i l ia te planned to retain the outstanding proceeds of the loan in the United States and did not in- tend to use the proceeds of the loan as a substitute for funds it otherwise intended to provide from sources outside the United States or to facilitate transfers of funds from the United States that would not have occurred in the absence of such a loan. (Triangular loan arrangements are those in which a loan by a U.S. direct investor to a foreign company is the basis for, or is associated with, a loan by the foreign company to an affiliated for- eign national of the direct investor. Parallel loan ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution arrangements are those in which a loan by a U.S. direct investor to a U.S. affiliate of a foreign com- pany is the basis for, or is associated w i th, a loan by the foreign company to an affiliated foreign national of the direct investor. Both types of ar- rangement involve a transfer of capital at the time of the loan to the aff i l ia ted foreign national .) September 11. The export to any country of nickel-bearing stainless steel ingots, and of iron and steel scrap containing 1 per cent or more of nickel, became subject to export license. Export licenses for nickel, the issue of which was discon- tinued in July, would be issued to exporters who otherwise would sustain an out-of-pocket finan- cial loss, or where certain forms of nickel could not be commercially processed in the United States for technological reasons. September 23. The Export-Import Bank announced that it was prepared to make advance commitments on export insurance and guarantees for U.S. firms b idd ing on capital projects abroad. It would also finance the export of U.S. engineer- ing, planning, and feasibility study services. In addition, loans were being made to foreign finan- cial institutions for re lend ing to local buyers of U.S. equipment. September 24. A special au thor iza t ion proce- du re was established to pe rm it "triangular" and "parallel" financing of foreign direct investment ( inc lud ing "back-to-back" loans) without current charge against a direct investor's ceiling on allow- able investment abroad. October 1. The Government of Japan notified the United States that it did not propose to make use of its exemption from the Interest Equaliza- tion Tax on securities issued in the United States. (On February 2, 1970, Japan's exemptions under the Interest Equalization Tax for private and government securities were revoked.) October 31. The President announced th at his Adm in is tra t ion would favor U.S. participation in a system of generalized ta r i ff preferences for de- veloping countries, subject to Congressional ap- proval. Concrete proposals were submitted to the OECD on November 3 and to UNCTAD on No- vember 14. November 1. Loan aid to Latin America was partially "untied." Loans granted to Latin Ameri- UNITED STATES can countries by the AID could henceforth also be used for purchases anywhere in Latin Amer- ica, except in Cuba, on equal terms with procure- ment in the United States. Previously, such funds could be used in the United States only. (Early in 1970, the m in imum national origin component of Latin American goods eligible for procurement under U.S. aid was reduced from 90 per cent to 50 per cent. Also, U.S. aid for local currency costs of projects would henceforth be provided in freely available dollars; the special letter of credit practice, by which the aid dollars giving rise to local currency counterpart were tied to imports from the Un i ted States, was discontinued.) November 5. An amendment to Regulation Q increased the number of foreign official institu- tions qua l i fy ing for exemption from the interest ceilings.7 November 18. The President sent to Congress a proposed "Trade Act of 1969." The bul would ( 1) restore un t il June 30, 1973 the Presi- dent's au thor i ty to reduce tariffs through trade agreements; (2) eliminate the American Selling Price method of customs va lua t ion; (3) relax the s tandards to be met by industries to qualify for relief f rom import competition; (4) enable the President to take retaliatory measures against imports from any country ma in ta in ing unjustifia- ble restrictions on any U.S. export; and (5) give the President the authority to take appropriate action on the import side against any country that provided subsidies or any equivalent incen- tive on its exports to third-country markets when that subsidized competition resulted in displace- ment of U.S. exports. November 26. The Interest Equalization Tax was extended (re troac t ive to September 30) to March 31, 1971. The rate schedule was kept equivalent to 3A of 1 per cent a year. The Presi- dent was given authority to set the rate on new issues below that on outstanding issues. November 28. Subsidies were granted on exports of chickens to Greece. Subsidies on exports of chickens to Switzerland were contin- ued. December 7. The Department of Labor 7 On January 21, 1970, most interest ceilings imposed by Regulation Q were raised. 533 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UNITED STATES announced that "adjustment assistance" would be paid under the Trade Expansion Act of 1962 to certain steelworkers who had become unem- ployed as a result of increased impor ts of steel transmission towers and welded pipe. This was the first action of its kind. December 17. The FRB announced the volun- tary guidelines for 1970 for the foreign lend ing of banks and other financial ins t i tu t ions. They intro- duced a separate ceiling ("export term loan ceil- ing") for bank export loans of at least US$250,000 for one year or longer, amoun t ing to 0.5 per cent of a bank's total assets at the end of 1968. This ceiling was made retroactive to December 1. The "general ceiling" on banks' for- eign lend ing remained in i t ia l ly unchanged at the level of each bank's lend ing ceiling for 1969, but banks' "general ceilings" would be reduced, and their "export term loan ceilings" increased, by the amoun ts received in repaymen ts on export term loans ou ts tand ing on November 30, 1969. The lend ing leeway fo rme r ly extinguished by repay- ments on ou ts tand ing term loans to developed countries of con t inen tal Western Europe was thus preserved for export term loan financing. Under the 1970 guidelines, the aggregate "general ceil- ing" of the banks remained at US$10.1 billion and the "export term loan ceiling" would be about US$1.6 b i l l ion. Nonbank financial ins t i tu- tions rema ined subject to a single ceiling, but were pe rm i t ted to exceed th is "moderately" by add i t ional export credits.8 In s t i tu t ions w i th no ceilings were inv i ted to apply for ceilings, but those w i th no ceilings or low ce i l ings would be freely perm i t ted to hold certain covered fo re ign assets to a total of US$500,000. December 17. It was announced that the For- eign Direct Inves tment Program for 1970 would pe rm it increased direct investment in developing countries. With effect from J a n u a ry 1, 1970, the 8 For the first t ime, the gu ide l ine ceilings for the non- bank financial in s t i tu t ions were app l icab le also to equ i ty inves tmen ts in Japan. exemption available to each direct investor (mini- mum investment allowable) would be raised from US$1 million to US$5 million, provided that the add i t ional US$4 million was used in Schedule A coun tr ies. The "target ceiling" for U.S.-financed direct inves tment under the Program would be about US$3.6 billion in 1970. The comparable "target ceiling" for 1969 had been US$3.35 bil- l ion, but theo re t ica l ly permissible direct invest- ment in 1969 in fu ll compliance w i th the Pro- gram was about US$5.5 billion as a result of a US$2 billion carry-over of unused au thor iza t ions from 1968. December 19. The embargo on trade with ma in land Ch ina, in effect since December 1950, was pa r t ia l ly l i f ted. Foreign subsidiaries and a f f i l ia tes of U.S. corporations were perm i t ted to sell nonstrategic goods w i thout U.S.-made content to Ch ina and to buy Chinese goods (and goods presumed to be Chinese) for resale on foreign marke ts. They were also permitted to finance, ship, or insure such goods. U.S. travelers would be permitted to br ing products of ma in land Chinese origin into the United States for noncom- mercial purposes w i thout any value limitation. However, U.S. companies would still not be per- mitted to export goods from the United States to ma in land Ch ina or to import Chinese merchan- dise in to the United States; the Commerce Depa r tment controls on the export or re-export of goods of U.S. origin and of unpub l i shed U.S. technology were ma in ta ined. December 24. The United States addressed to the Fund a letter setting fo r th its position on f u t u re sales of gold by South A f r ica to the Fund, provided that these sales took place in the cir- cumstances and under the conditions described in a letter of December 23, 1969 from South Africa to the Fund. December 30. Congress authorized the setting- up of an Overseas Private Investment Corpora- tion. Its purpose was to encourage private investment in less developed countries and trans- fer technology to them. 534 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA1 Exchange System No par value for the currency of Upper Volta has been established with the Fund. The unit of currency is the CFA Franc, which is officially maintained at the rate of CFAF 1 = 0 . 02 French franc, giving the relationship CFAF 277.710 -- US$1.2 Exchange transactions in French francs between the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and commercial banks take place at the rate of CFAF 1 = F 0.02, free of commission charges. Exchange rates for other currencies are based on the fixed rate for the French f ranc and the Paris exchange market rate for the currency concerned, and include a commission. Upper Volta's exchange control measures do not apply to ( 1 ) France and its Overseas Depart- ments and Territories (except the French Terri- tory of the Afars and the Issas) and Monaco; (2) the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union (Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mauri- tan ia, Niger, Senegal, and Togo); and (3) all other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account (Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, the People's Republic of the Congo, Gabon, the Malagasy Republic, and M a l i ). Hence, all pay- ments to these countries may be made freely. All other countries, except Upper Volta itself, are considered foreign countries, and in principle financial relations only with foreign countries are subject to exchange control. For purposes of cer- tain capital controls, however, the countries listed above are also considered foreign countries. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Exter- nal Finance Bureau in the Directorate of the Treasury and of Public Accounts in the M in i s t ry of Finance and Commerce, which also supervises borrowing abroad, the issuing, advertising, or 1 In view of certain changes that took place early in 1970 (see note at the end of th is s u r v e y ), th is su rvey presents the position on Apr il 6, 1970. 2 The CFA f ranc is issued by the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) and is the com- mon currency in Dahomey, Ivory Coast, Mau r i tan ia, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Upper Volta. offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta, inward direct investment and all outward investment, and the soliciting of funds in Upper Volta for placement in foreign countries. The approval au thor i ty in respect of exchange control, except for imports and exports of gold, has been delegated to the BCEAO and, w i th in limits specified in the exchange control regulations, to authorized intermediaries. The BCEAO also is authorized to collect, either directly or through the intermediary of the banks and the Postal Administration, any informa t ion necessary to compile the balance of payments statistics. All exchange transactions relating to foreign countries must be effected through authorized banks, the Postal Adm in is tra t ion, or the BCEAO. Import and export licenses are issued by the Foreign Trade Bureau in the Directorate of Commerce at the M in is try of Finance and Commerce, except those for gold, which are granted by the External Finance Bureau in the same Ministry. Import cer- tificates for liberalized commodities are made out by the importer himself and are visaed by the customs. Prescription of Currency Upper Volta is an Operations Account country of the French Franc Area, since the BCEAO ma in ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury; settlements with France ( inc lud ing its Overseas Departments and Territo- ries, except the French Territory of the Afars and the Issas), Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries of the French Franc Area are made in CFA francs, French francs, or the cur- rency of any other Operations Account country. Settlements with all other countries are usually made through correspondent banks in France in any of the currencies of those countries—pro- vided that the currencies are quoted on the Paris exchange market —or in French francs through Foreign Accounts in Francs.3 All settlements with Rhodesia are prohibited. 3 There is an inoperative payments agreement w i th Ghana. A trade agreement with Ghana that was ratified in December 1967 provides that all payments shall take place in transferab le currencies. 535 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Nonresident Accounts The regu la t ions pe r ta in ing to nonresident accounts are based on those applied in France. The c r ed i t ing to nonresident accounts of CFA banknotes, French banknotes, or banknotes issued by any other in s t i tu te of issue that main- ta ins an Operations Account with the French Treasury is prohibited. imports and import Payments Impor ts from Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are proh ib i ted. Impor ts from countries in the French Franc Area may be made freely. Impor ts f rom EEC countries are liberalized and require only an import certificate. Most imports from other countries are subject to licensing. Imports f rom non-EEC countries outside the French Franc Area are adm i t ted in accordance with an annual import program, determined each year by the Directorate of Commerce. Under this program, global quotas are established up to which import licenses are issued for specified commodities to licensed traders. Imports from Ghana are subject to special regulations. For goods adm i t ted w i thout quan t i ta t ive restriction, certificates of importation are issued. All import transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled w i th an authorized bank when the ir va lue exceeds CFAF 20,000. The import licenses or import certificates en t i t le importers to purchase the necessary exchange, but not earlier than eight days before sh ipment if a documen tary credit is opened or eight days before the payment is due if the commod i t ies h ave already been imported. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles to France, Monaco, and the other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are permitted freely; those to other countries are subject to exchange control approval, which for many invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. All pay- ments to Rhodesia are prohibited. Payments for invisibles related to trade are permitted freely when the basic trade transaction has been approved or does not require authorization. Transfers of income accruing to nonresidents in the form of profits, dividends, and royalties are 536 also perm i t ted. Residents traveling to countries other than France, Monaco, and the other Opera- tions Account countries of the French Franc Area may ob ta in an exchange allocation of an amount equ iva lent to CFAF 50,000 a year for each person (CFAF 25,000 for children under t e n ); any fore ign exchange remaining af ter return to Upper Volta must be surrendered. Travelers going to foreign countries may take out up to a max imum of CFAF 10,000 in BCEAO bank- notes, French banknotes, and banknotes issued by any ins t i tu te of issue that ma in ta ins an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. Travel- ers to other countries may take out any amount in BCEAO bankno tes, but if their destination is not in a member country of the West African Mone tary Un ion, they must declare to the customs the amount taken out if it exceeds CFAF 150,000. Resident travelers must have their purchases and sales of foreign currency marked in a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change). Nonresident travelers may take out, in addition to any means of payment established in their name abroad, foreign bankno tes up to the equ iva lent of CFAF 25,000 or, if it was declared upon en t ry, any larger amoun t. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports to countries of the French Franc Area may be made freely but for statistical purposes require a license from the Directorate of Com- merce. Exports to Portugal, Rhodesia, and South A f r ica are prohibited. Exports to all other coun- tries are permitted freely but some also require a license. Certain commodities can be exported in special circumstances only. Exports to Ghana are subject to special regulations. Export proceeds received in currencies other than those of France or another Operations Account country must be surrendered. All export transactions relating to foreign countries must be domiciled with an authorized bank when their value exceeds CFAF 50,000, and the exporter must sign a fore ign exchange comm i tment (engagement de change) and submit a customs certification (attes- tation d'exportation). Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from transactions in invisibles with ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area may be retained. All amounts due from residents of other countries in respect of services and all income earned in those countries from foreign assets must be collected and surrendered within two months of the due date. Such proceeds and earn- ings must not be received in or from Rhodesia. Resident and nonresident travelers may bring in any amount of bankno tes and coins issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, or any bank of issue ma in ta in ing an Operations Account with the French Treasury, as well as any amount of for- eign bankno tes and coins (except gold coins) of countries outside the French Franc Area. Resi- dent travelers must within eight days surrender to an authorized bank any foreign means of payment they bring in. Capital All capital movements between Upper Volta and Rhodesia are prohibited. Capital movements between Upper Volta and France, Monaco, and other Operations Account countries in the French Franc Area are free of exchange control; capital transfers to all other countries require exchange control approval and are restricted, but capital receipts from such countries are permitted freely. Special controls (add i t ional to any exchange control requ i remen ts that may be applicable) are maintained over borrowing abroad, over inward direct investment and all outward investment, and over the issuing, advertising, or o f fe r ing for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta; these controls relate to the transactions themselves, not to pay- ments or receipts. With the exception of those over foreign securities in Upper Volta, the control measures do not apply to relations with France and its Overseas Departments and Territories (except the French Territory of the A fa rs and the Issas), Monaco, the other member countries of the West African Monetary Union, and those other countries whose bank of issue is linked with the French Treasury by an Operations Account. Special controls are maintained also over imports and exports of gold, over the soliciting of f u n ds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms and ins t i tu t ions, and over all pub l ic i ty aimed at placing funds abroad or at subscribing to real estate building operations abroad; these special UPPER VOLTA controls do apply also to France, Monaco, and the Operations Account countries. All inves tment abroad by residents of Upper Volta requ i res prior authorization by the Minister of Finance.4 Foreign direct investments in Upper Volta,5 must be declared to the Minister of Finance before they are made. The Minister has a period of two months from receipt of the declaration du r ing which he may request the postponement of the projects submitted to him. The total or partial liquidation of either type of direct inves tment also is subject to prior declara- tion to the Minister. Both the mak ing and the liq- uidation of investments, whe ther these are Upper Volta investments abroad or foreign inves tmen ts in Upper Volta, must be reported to the Minister of Finance within 20 days following each operation. Direct investments are defined as investments imp ly ing control of a company or enterprise. Mere participation is not considered as direct inves tmen t, provided that it does not exceed 20 per cent in the capital of a company whose shares are quoted on a stock exchange. The issuing, advertising, or offering for sale of foreign securities in Upper Volta requires prior au tho r iza t ion by the Minister of Finance. Exempt from au thor iza t ion, however, are operations in connection w i th ( 1 ) loans backed by a guarantee f rom the Upper Volta Government and (2) shares s im i lar to securities whose issue, offering for sale, or sale in Upper Volta has previously been authorized. Borrowing by residents from nonresidents requ ires prior authorization by the Minister of Finance. The following are, however, exempt from this authorization: (1) loans constituting a direct investment, which are subject to prior dec- laration, as indicated above; (2) loans taken up by industrial firms to finance transactions abroad, by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports from Upper Volta, or by international 4 Inc lud ing those made through the in te rmed ia ry of foreign companies that are directly or indirectly con- trolled by persons in Upper Volta and those made by branches or subsidiaries abroad of companies in Upper Volta. 5 Inc lud ing those made by companies in Upper Volta that are directly or ind irec t ly under foreign control and those made by branches or subsidiaries in Upper Volta of foreign companies. 537 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA trading houses to finance international merchant- ing transactions; ( 3) loans contracted by author- ized banks; (4) loans other than those mentioned above, when the to tal amount outstanding of these loans, including the new borrowing, does not exceed CFAF 100 million for any one bor- rower, and provided that the annual interest rate does not exceed the normal market rate. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct investment requires the special authorization of the M in is ter if the loan itself was subject to such approval, but is exempt if the loan was exempt from special authorization. Lending abroad is subject only to exchange control authorization. Law No. 14/62/AN of June 22, 1962, which revoked and replaced Law No. 24 /61 /AN of July 5, 1961, provides preferential trea tment for foreign investment in Upper Volta. Under this law, two preferen t ial categories (A and B) are estab- lished, in accordance with which preferential t rea tment with respect to stable rates of taxes, duties, and other fiscal charges may be accorded to specified, approved enterprises for periods of up to 30 years. The benefits under Category B are far more liberal than those under Category A; they are negotiated between the investor and the Gove rnmen t; and the enterprise accorded such benefits must be of special importance to the national economy. Law No. 25 /61 /AN set up an assistance fund for new industries. Gold Residents are free to hold, acquire, and dis- pose of gold in any form in Upper Volta. Imports and exports of gold f rom or to any other country require prior authorization by the External Finance Bureau in the Ministry of Finance and Commerce, which is seldom granted. Exempt from this requirement are (1) imports and exports by or on behalf of the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quan t i ty of gold (such as gold-filled or gold-plated articles); and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a combined weight of 500 grams. Both licensed and exempt imports of gold are subject to customs declaration. 538 Changes during 1969 January 29. The control over the banks' posi- tion vis-à-vis foreign countries in CFA francs and foreign currencies was delegated to the BCEAO by Order No. 25/MFC. February 4. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 1 to Banks concerning the control over the authorized banks' foreign claims and liabilities. Ano ther directive on the same subject was issued on February 20 by Instruction No. 2. February 14. Circular No. 17 established the terms on which foreign exchange could be pur- chased fo rwa rd. This was only allowed for import payments; the fac i l i ty was limited to specified commodities, either for one month or for three mon ths, and was not renewable. February 26. Order No. 128/MFC revoked Order No. 428/MFC of December 5, 1968 and established an exchange allocation of the equiva- lent of CFAF 50,000 a person a year for travel by residents to foreign countries (CFAF 25,000 for ch i ldren under ten ). Resident travelers could in addition take out up to CFAF 10,000 in bank- notes issued by the BCEAO, the Bank of France, and any institute of issue ma in ta in ing an Opera- tions Account with the French Treasury. Resi- dent travelers were required to obtain a personal foreign exchange booklet (carnet de change) in wh ich all purchases and sales of foreign exchange must be marked. (Modified by Order No. 196/MF of April 12, 1969 and Order No. 333 /MFof June 16, 1969.) April 3. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 3 to Banks concerning the control over their external claims and liabilities. April 29. Circular No. 29 was issued concern- ing the price of issue of foreign exchange book- lets (carnets de change). June 16. The BCEAO issued Instruction No. 4 to Banks concerning the control over their external claims and liabilities. June 23. Circular No. 37 was issued concern- ing transfers of wages and salaries, family remittances, and educational expenses. The fu ll net wage or salary could be transferred within three months of the relative pay period. The approval authority of the authorized banks for ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution family remittances was set at CFAF 20,000 a month for each applicant. Payments for living expenses of a nonboarding unmarried student could be approved by banks up to US$300 a month for study in the United States and up to the equivalent of CFAF 50,000 a month for other foreign countries. June 23. Circular No. 38 was issued concern- ing transfers in favor of repatriates. June 23. Circular No. 39 was issued concern- ing profit transfers by firms and nonresident physical persons not already covered by existing delegations of approval authority granted to au- thorized banks. July 14. Circular No. 45 added certain cotton fabrics to the lists of import commodities eligible for forward exchange cover. July 14. Circular No. 46 was issued concerning suspense accounts (Comptes d'attente) and sus- pense dossiers of nonresidents. July 17. Circular No. 48 amended Circulars Nos. 37 and 39. July 22. Circular No. 49 was issued concerning the opening of foreign accounts and foreign securities dossiers for persons who, having been residents, become nonresidents. August 11. The exchange rate in terms of U.S. dollars was changed from CFAF 246.853 per US$1 to CFAF 277.710 per * US$1. The fixed exchange rates for the French franc, the Mala- gasy franc, and the Mali franc remained unchanged. September 5. Circular No. 68 was issued con- cerning the reporting requirements of the author- ized banks with respect to payments received from foreign countries. October 14. Circular No. 87 declared two additional groups of import commodities eligible for forward cover. December 3. Decree No. 69-254 was issued concerning certain financial transactions with for- eign countries. For purposes of this Decree, for- eign countries were defined as all countries other than Upper Volta. It revoked Decree No. 67-150 of June 29, 1967 and Decree No. 68-107 of May 13, 1968. UPPER VOLTA The prior authorization of the Minister of Finance was required for (1) the issuing, adver- tising, or offering for sale of any type of securities of foreign states, foreign public organizations or companies, and international institutions; (2) the soliciting in any way of funds for deposit with foreign private persons and foreign firms or insti- tutions; and (3) any publicity with a view to the placing of funds abroad or subscribing to real estate building operations abroad. Exempt from special or general permission, however, were the various activities mentioned above when relating to loans guaranteed by the Upper Volta Govern- ment or relating to shares similar to securities whose issuing or offering for sale in Upper Volta had previously been authorized. The import and export of gold required the prior approval of the Minister. Exempt were (1) imports and exports by the Treasury or the BCEAO; (2) imports and exports of manufac- tured articles containing a minor quantity of gold; and (3) imports and exports by travelers of gold objects up to a maximum weight to be announced by the Minister (see April 6, 1970, below). Residents traveling to France, Monaco, or Operations Account countries outside the West African Monetary Union were required to declare to the customs the amount of BCEAO banknotes they were carrying if that amount exceeded CFAF 150,000. December 18. Decree No. 69-268 was issued concerning certain investment and borrowing transactions with foreign countries. It modified the capital controls introduced by Decree No. 67-150 of June 29, 1967 (as amended by Decree No. 68-107 of May 13, 1968); Articles 3 to 14 of that Decree were revoked. For purposes of investment and borrowing transactions, foreign countries continued to be defined as in Decree No. 68-295 of December 4, 1968, i.e., as coun- tries other than France, Monaco, and the Opera- tions Account countries. All payments received from foreign countries by an authorized bank for the account of a resident had to be declared to the Minister of Finance. All payments and receipts relating to the transactions mentioned below had to be channeled through authorized banks. 539 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution UPPER VOLTA Hencefor th all inve s tmen ts made abroad by residents required the prior au tho r iza t ion of the M in is te r; prev ious ly, direct inves tmen ts required only pr ior dec lara t ion to the M in i s te r, a f ter which the l a t t er had two mon ths to request postpone- ment. The l iqu id a t ion of inves tmen ts abroad con- t inued to be subject to prior dec lara t ion. These provisions also applied to the mak ing and liqui- da t ion of inves tmen ts abroad by nonres ident companies directly or indirectly controlled by persons in Upper Volta or so controlled by branches abroad of residents. Direct inve s tment in Upper Volta rema ined subject to prior declaration, af ter wh ich the Min- ister could d u r i ng a two-month period request postponement. The proceeds of the l iqu ida t ion by a nonres ident of d irect inves tmen ts or other inves tmen ts could be transferred abroad a f ter submission of suppor t ing documents to the Minis- ter. Borrowing abroad rema ined subject to prior authorization by the Minister. The exemptions from this requ i rement were redefined. The report- ing requ iremen ts for amounts borrowed or repaid were revised. The repayment of any foreign bor- rowing, whe ther authorized or exempt f rom au thor iza t ion, requ i red the prior au tho r iza t ion of the M in is te r; exempt f rom th is requ irement were loans con s t i tu t ing a direct inves tmen t, loans taken up by authorized banks, and any loans exempted by the Minister. NOTE. —The following changes took place early in 1970: January 21. Order No. 11/MFC amended Order No. 128/MFC of February 26, 1969. February 16. Circular No. 10 reminded export- ers of the manner in which proceeds from exports to foreign countries had to be received. February 26. Circular No. 16 was issued con- cern ing the application of Decree No. 69-268. Among other things, it listed borrowings exempt f rom p r ior au thor iza t ion as follows: (1) Loans taken up by authorized banks. (2) Loans meet- ing the fo l low ing conditions: (a) the amount of the loan must be realized immediately by sale of foreign currency on the exchange market or by debit to a Foreign Account in Francs; (b) the annu al interest rate must not exceed the normal market rate; (c) the total amount of loans exempt from approval contracted by the same borrower and not yet repaid, including the new transac t ion, must not exceed CFAF 100 million; (d) the contract or exchange of letters must be subm i t ted to the authorized bank. (3) Loans taken up by indus tr ial firms to finance transac- tions abroad, taken up by any type of firm to finance imports into or exports f rom Upper Volta, or taken up by in terna t ional trading houses to finance in terna t ional merchan t ing trans- actions. The repayment of loans not constituting a direct inves tment required the special authoriza- tion of the M in is ter of Finance if the loan itself had been subject to such approval, but was exempt if the loan had been exempt from special au tho r iza t ion. The repayment of all loans con- tracted before the publication of Decree No. 69- 268 also required such special authorization. There were special provisions concerning the extension of existing borrowings and concerning advance repayment. April 6. Order No. 174/MFC permitted travel- ers to import or export articles of gold up to a combined weight of 500 grams. 540 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY Exchange Rate System On October 7, 1960, a par value for the Uru- guayan Peso was established by Uruguay with the Fund. However, exchange transactions no longer take place at rates based on that par value. Cer- tain exchange transactions take place in an official exchange market conducted by the mone- tary authorities.1 The Central Bank sets official buy ing and selling rates in this market. Other exchange transactions take place in an interbank free marke t. In practice, the exchange rates in the two marke ts are v ir tua l ly identical; the Central Bank supplies foreign exchange to the commer- cial banks for current transactions, and the pro- ceeds from traditional exports must be surren- dered to the mone tary authorities, while those from non trad i t ional exports must be sold to authorized banks. The commercial banks are not permitted to exceed specified overbought and oversold positions and must surrender any excess exchange holdings to the Central Bank. On December 31, 1969, the off ic ial buy ing and sell- ing rates were Ur$248 and Ur$250 per US$1, respectively, and the interbank free market rate was about Ur$249.50 per US$1. Certain export proceeds are subject to taxes (detracciones or retenciones), which give rise to various effective buy ing rates. A tax of 2/w of 1 per cent is pay- able on all funds received from abroad. Administration of Control Exchange transactions are carried out through the authorized banks and the monetary authori- ties. The latter collect import surcharges and export taxes, hold the prepayments and advance deposits required for certain imports, and receive export and import registrations. Prescription of Currency Settlements with countries with which Uruguay has bilateral payments agreements are made through accounts maintained in U.S. dollars as the accounting unit. These countries are Bulgaria, 1 On March 1, 1967, a new Central Bank was estab- lished but some operations are still being carried out on its behalf by the Bank of the Republic. The term "monetary authorities" as used here refers to both banks taken together. Poland, and Spain.2 Payments between Uruguay and Chile may be made through accounts main- tained with each other by the two central banks, w i th in the framework of the LAFTA multilateral clearing system.3 Settlements with other countries are made in U.S. dollars or other convertible cur- rencies. imports and import Payments All imports are subject to registration prior to placing orders abroad. There are no import pro- hibitions. The monetary authorities make exchange available for public sector transactions, to commercial banks in respect of current trans- actions, and at their own discretion to private customers. Imports are classified in eight catego- ries: goods in one category are not subject to surcharge (recargo) ; goods in the other six cate- gories are subject to a surcharge of 10, 30, 60, 90, 150, 225, or 300 per cent, which is payable at the time of registration.4 Many imports require prepayments (consignaciones) in Uruguayan pesos of a certain percentage of the c.i.f. value; the pre- payment must be lodged with the monetary au- thorities at the time of registration and is refund- able on application a f ter six months. Imports by public sector agencies are exempt, as are imports financed by the U.S. AID or loans from the IBRD, the IDB, and the Export-Import Bank of the United States; fur thermore, the authorities may grant ad hoc exemptions. An advance de- posit of 200 per cent of the aforo c.i.f. value is required in principle on imports of vehicles equipped w i th foreign-made tires or tubes of types also produced in Uruguay, but the requirement is not enforced. The following prepayments are required for the period Janua ry 1-March 31, 1970. For goods free of surcharge or subject to a 10 per cent or 30 per cent surcharge, and some items subject to a 60 per cent surcharge, a prepayment of 150 per cent (105 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries) is applicable to any imports 2 The payments agreement with Poland was termi- nated on January 23, 1970 and that with Spain on February 6, 1970. 3 Early in 1970, Uruguay concluded reciprocal credit agreements under this system with Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru. 4 Many d i f fe rent rates of surcharge apply to imports from LAFTA countries. 541 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY by each importer in excess of 100 per cent of the quota of imports that was exempt from prepay- ment in the period October 1-December 31, 1969; for other goods subject to a 60 per cent surcharge, and for those subject to a 90 per cent surcharge, a prepayment of 300 per cent (210 per cent for LAFTA countries) is applied for each importer on any excess of imports over 100 per cent of the quota of his imports that was exempt in Octo- ber 1-December 31, 1969; and for imports subject to higher surcharges, a prepayment of 400 per cent (280 per cent for LAFTA countries) is applicable on any excess of imports over 100 per cent of the quota of imports that was exempt in the period mentioned. Special regulations apply to imports of specified capital goods; for those included in a special list and authorized by the Central Bank, the prepayment rates depend on the financing period and vary from 50 to 150 per cent (35 to 105 per cent for imports from LAFTA coun- tr ies), while imports with more than three years' external financing are exempt. Capital goods in the same list but not authorized by the Central Bank are subject to a prepayment of 225 per cent (155 per cent for imports from LAFTA coun tr ies). However, imports of capital goods up to US$10,000 a calendar quarter for each importer are exempt from all prepayments. Imports of all items appearing in the Uru- guayan concession list for trade with LAFTA countries or the special concession lists for Ecua- dor and Paraguay are subject to reduced prepay- ments; some of these items are also exempt from surcharges, while the rest are subject to reduced percentages. V ir tua l ly all imports are subject, in addition to any customs duty required, to addi- tional import duties ranging from 1.5 per cent to 18 per cent of the c.i.f. value and payable upon customs clearance. All imports valued at over US$1.82 are subject to consular charges of %o °f 1 per cent on the peso amount resulting from con- version of the f.o.b. value at a rate of Ur$55 per US$1; the amount of the charges is payable in foreign exchange, at a rate of about Ur$l = US$2.10 (at a rate of about U r$l = US$1 for private imports of petroleum and petroleum prod- ucts, alcohol, and tetraethyl lead, and about U r$l = US$0.50 for official imports of the same commodities). 542 Prepayments and surcharges in most cases are calculated on average c.i.f. prices (aforos) estab- lished for many commodities or on the actual c.i.f. value, whichever is higher. In a few cases, the cal- culation is based on an officially assessed price (also referred to as aforo), which usua l ly is ex- pressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram. Imports ordinarily subject to the 10 per cent surcharge are in principle exempt from this sur- charge if transported in Uruguayan ships, but the exemption has temporarily been suspended. Payments for Invisibles There are basic exchange allowances for cer- tain current invisibles. The exchange allocation for foreign travel is the equivalent of US$100 a person a trip for travel to neighboring countries and the equivalent of 200 per cent of the fare for travel to other countries. Exchange for family remittances is limited in principle to the equiva- lent of US$100 a month for each recipient. Under certain circumstances, authorized banks may grant additional amounts of exchange for travel and fam i ly remittances. Payments for all other invisibles may be made freely through the interbank market, provided that in the case of contractual payments the relevant foreign obliga- tion has been registered with the Central Bank; private sector payments in respect of profits, divi- dends, rents, and certain other invisibles must be registered in advance at the beginning of the semester in which they are to be made and must be authorized by acceptance of the registration. Companies constituted outside Uruguay are required to pay a 4 per cent tax on income accruing in Uruguay and a fur ther 10 per cent when transferring this income from Uruguay. There are no limitations on the export of foreign or domestic banknotes. Exports and Export Proceeds The proceeds of the principal exports are sub- ject to taxes (detracciones or retenciones), which are withheld by the monetary authorities. For some commodities, the tax is stipulated in pesos per unit of export commodity, but it may not be more than 50 per cent or less than 0.01 per cent of the peso proceeds of the export, except that for exports of meat the stipulated maximum is 25 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution per cent while for wool the permitted limits are 2 per cent and 35 per cent of the export price. The actual percentages may be adjusted at 60-day intervals. The exchange proceeds of exports sub- ject to taxes must be surrendered in fu ll to the monetary authorities not later than 30 days after shipment has been authorized; the proceeds from exports of non trad i t ional products must be sur- rendered within 60 days if the sale is on a cash basis or w i th in 210 days if the sale is made on credit. For most exports, including wool and meat, m in imum f.o.b. values (m in imum surrender prices or aforos) expressed in U.S. dollars per kilogram have been established for various grades and types. Subsidies of up to 35 per cent of the f.o.b. value are granted on certain nontraditional ex- ports. Exports of certain types of beef-dairy cows and wool ewes are prohibited. Exports of wheat, sorghum, corn, and sunflower seeds are from time to time permitted up to certain quantities. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds from invisibles may be held, uti- lized, or sold in the interbank marke t. There are no limitations on the import of foreign or domes- tic banknotes. Capital Inward capital transfers by either residents or nonresidents may be made freely through the interbank market. Outward capital transfers are subject to prior authorization; those of resident- owned capital are restricted. All obligations in ex- cess of US$1,000 that are contracted abroad by the private sector must be declared within 30 days of the date of the contract. Gold Residents may freely purchase, hold, and sell gold in any form, in Uruguay or abroad; any purchases abroad, however, must be financed from the buyer's own exchange holdings. Imports and exports of gold by or on behalf of the mone- tary authorities or authorized industrial and pro- fessional users are settled at the official buying and selling rates; all other imports of gold are temporarily suspended. Payments and receipts in URUGUAY respect of all other international transactions in gold are settled through the interbank market. Changes during 1969 January 1. All specific taxes on imports and exports were doubled. January 13. Central Bank Circular No. 112 revised the prescribed prepayments. Although the amount of the deposit required for each of the three surcharge categories was not changed, the prepayment became applicable on any imports in excess of 80 per cent of the quota of imports exempted in the base period October 1- December 31, 1968. January 31. Decree No. 62/1969 exempted goods imported by the State Electricity and Tele- phone Board from the payment of consular charges. February. A government decree exempted from the import tax imports of industrial plant and machinery for the manufac ture of fertilizers. February. Imports of certain capital goods and transport equipment for specified industries were exempted from prepayments. The industries concerned were industries producing for export, industries producing goods for mass consumption, labor intensive industries, and import substitution industries enjoying a low level of protection (i.e., subject to surcharges of less than 90 per cen t). February 25. Central Bank Circular No. 119 provided that all private sector obligations abroad in amounts of over US$1,000 had to be declared. Obligations undertaken up to the end of February 1969 were to be declared by March 15, 1969; thereafter, all new obligations abroad were to be declared w i th in 30 days from the date of the con- tract. March 4. Central Bank Circular No. 120 fu r- ther revised the prepayments. The prepayment became applicable on any imports in excess of 200 per cent of the value of imports exempted in the basic period October 1-December 31, 1968. March 12. Central Bank Circular No. 122 pro- vided that foreign exchange allocations to import- ers would be made automatically against presen- tation of the import declaration (denuncia de importación). Previously, the importer was 543 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution URUGUAY required to present both shipping documen ts and an application for customs clearance of the goods. Foreign exchange for imports of books and magazines, however, could only be obtained after registration of the importer's name by the Bank of the Republic, and against presentation of commercial invoices visaed by the booksellers' association. Foreign exchange allowances for travel abroad were restricted in principle to US$100 a person a trip for travel to neighboring countries and to 200 per cent of the fa re for trips to other countries. Family remittances abroad were limited in principle to US$100 a month for each recipient. Under certain circumstances, addi- tional amounts for travel and f am i ly remittances could be made available by authorized banks. March 14. Central Bank Circular No. 123 exempted imports of automobiles or automotive kits from prepayments if the importation was effected under fiscal benefits accorded by the Government. March. Three types of customs charges were raised: on items subject to specific duties, the specific du ty was raised from 3 to 6 pesos a kilogram; the port handling tax was raised from 30 to 60 pesos a kilogram on all items; the labo- ratory analysis fee was raised f rom 500 to 1,000 pesos per 2,000 kilograms on food and raw materials, and from 1,000 to 2,000 pesos per 2,000 kilograms on medicinal and other products. March 27. A government decree established a list of goods that could be imported du ty free until September 30, 1969. These items were goods normally exempt from surcharges or sub- ject to a 10 per cent surcharge. They included capital goods for development projects; machin- ery for export industries; and fertilizers and raw materials for the production of fertilizers. In addition, an 85 per cent import tax exemption was granted to imports of machinery for indus- tries manufacturing agricultural products, certain agricultural machinery and equipment, and fuels; a 40 per cent import tax exemption was granted to imports of steel and various steel products, certain raw materials, and metals. These exemp- tions, which had been introduced under Law No. 13.637 of December 21, 1967, and Decrees Nos. 190, 299, and 592 would otherwise have expired on March 31. 544 May 19. Central Bank Circular No. 129 exempted imports by industrial firms of raw materials for industrial use from prepayments, so long as each firm's imports did not exceed 50 per cent of the limits fixed for each firm within each surcharge category. For each importer, goods imported under the terms of this Circular were to be considered as an advance against any fu r ther exemptions du r ing 1969. June 3. Central Bank Circular No. 134 estab- lished that all importers could import goods with- out prepayments in additional amounts up to 50 per cent of the surcharge-free amounts estab- lished for each importer for each surcharge cate- gory by Circular No. 120. Circular No. 129 of May 19, 1969 was annulled. July 1. A reciprocal credit agreement with Chile went into effect. July 24. The surcharges on cigarettes and whisky were reduced, to 10 per cent on imports of cigarettes and to 60 per cent on imports of whisky (10 per cent on whisky in casks). September 2. Decree No. 422/969 removed the surcharge of 100 per cent on imports of jute fab- rics from LAFTA countries, and reduced the sur- charge of 225 per cent on imports from non- LAFTA sources to 30 per cent. Moreover all imports of ju te fabrics were exempted from the 18 per cent additional import tax. September 5. Central Bank Circular No. 147 established a revised system of prepayments for imports in the period October 1-December 31, 1969, as follows: for goods free of surcharge or subject to a surcharge of 10 per cent or 30 per cent, a prepayment of 150 per cent (105 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries) was applied on any imports in excess of 100 per cent of the quota of imports exempted from prepayments in the period October 1-December 31, 1968; for imports with surcharges of 60 per cent and 90 per cent, the prepayment applied was 300 per cent (210 per cent for LAFTA countries) on imports over 100 per cent of the quota in the same base period. For imports subject to sur- charges of 150 per cent and more, the prepay- ment applied was 400 per cent (280 per cent for LAFTA countries) on excess imports over 100 per cent of the base period quota. Imports of ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution capital goods were made subject to a d i f fe rent prepayment schedule, depending upon the length of maturity of the financing obtained. Authorized imports of specified capital goods financed at more than three years' maturity were exempt from prepayments. Those financed at less than three years' term were subject to prepayments of between 50 per cent and 150 per cent (between 35 per cent and 105 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries). Capital goods imports included in the special list but not authorized by the Central Bank were subject to prepayments of 225 per cent (155 per cent on imports from LAFTA countries). Moreover, imports of capital goods up to US$10,000 per importer per calendar quarter were exempt from prepayments. Imports of public entities, imports with fiscal and customs duties exemptions, and those financed by the IBRD, U.S. Eximbank, U.S. AID, and IDE, and under P.L. 480, were exempt. Also included in the list of exemptions were imports of capital goods when such imports were deemed to be nec- essary for economic development, imports of automotive kits authorized by the Automotive Commission, and imports of kits and completed motor vehicles when effected under fiscal benefits accorded by the Government. Finally, the exemp- tion was also applied to imports from LAFTA countries of goods listed in the complementarity agreements with Uruguay. September 6. Decree No. 524/964 of Decem- ber 29, 1964 was amended. In principle bicycles, cars, station wagons, trucks, motorcycles, buses, and trailers required a prior deposit of 200 per cent of the aforo c.i.f. value when they came equipped with imported tires or tubes, but they were exempt when equipped with nationally pro- duced tires or tubes. Furthermore, importers could obtain an exemption if they produced a certifi- cate from a Uruguayan manufacturer certifying that equivalent types of tires or tubes could not be supplied from domestic sources within 90 days. URUGUAY October 1. Law No. 13695 of October 24, 1968 went into effect. Exports of wool became subject (in addition to retenciones) to taxes of between ll/2 per cent and 4 per cent of the aforo, depending upon the type of wool. October 1. Export taxes (detracciones) on groundnut derivatives, sunflower derivatives, and linseed derivatives were abolished. October 1. The retentions on wool exports were reduced. New aforos for wool exports were also established. October 9. Central Bank Circular No. 152 obliged ind iv idua ls and firms in the private sector to register with the Central Bank their payments abroad of loans and certain current invisibles. Registration had to be made every January 31 for payments to be made in the first semester, and every Ju ly 31 for payments to be made in the second semester. October 28. A government decree exempted capital goods for development projects imported under long-term financing with minimum matu- rities of 40 years from prepayments and from import tax, customs duties, and all other charges. November 1. The bilateral payments agreement with Czechoslovakia was terminated. December 24. Central Bank Circular No. 160 established new prepayments for imports during the period January 1-March 31, 1970 along the lines of Circular No. 147 of September 5, 1969. For the three categories of surcharges, the mar- gins exempted from prepayments were 100 per cent of the quota of imports exempt in the new base period, October 1-December 31, 1969. December 31. The bilateral payments agree- ment with Eastern Germany was terminated. December 31. The Bank of the Republic tem- porarily suspended the exemption from the 10 per cent surcharge for imports transported by Uru- guayan-flag vessels. 545 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VENEZUELA Exchange Rate System The par va lue is 0.265275 gram of fine gold per Venezuelan Bolivar or Bs 3.35 = US$1. Exchange transac t ions take place at the fo l low ing rates. The Central Bank of Venezuela purchases proceeds of the petroleum and iron ore exporting companies at the rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Most other exchange proceeds are purchased by com- mercial banks at rates close to Bs 4.48 per US$1. Proceeds f rom exports of cacao and coffee may be purchased also by the Central Bank at the rate of Bs 4.485 per US$1; in ce r ta in c i rcum- stances they are eligible for special subsidies (see section on Exports and Export Proceeds, b e low ). The Central Bank sells exchange to the Govern- ment and its agencies and to the commercial banks at Bs 4.485 per US$1. Commercial banks sell exchange to the pub l ic at Bs 4.50 per US$1 for all transactions. The Central Bank, through its Import Subsidy Office, pays a subsidy of Bs 1.15 per US$1 on exchange purchased to make payments for imports of wheat and powdered m i lk. The Central Bank offers swap fac i l i t ies under which it buys U.S. dollars at Bs 4.47 and resells at Bs 4.50. Administration of Control Import and export licenses, when requ i red, are generally issued by the M in is try of Development or the M in is t ry of Ag r icu l tu re and Livestock, depending on the commodity. Under the terms of an agreement between the M in i s t ry of F inance and the Central Bank, the la t ter has the responsi- b i l i ty of ensu r ing that a subsidy is applied to the appropr ia te transactions; the Import Subsidy Office of the Central Bank adm in is ters the pay- ment of this subsidy, which is granted only on import payments for wheat and powdered m i lk (see section on Exchange Rate System, above). Imports of these products require both an import license from the Ministry of Development and a permit from the Import Subsidy Office; exports containing a subs tan t ial component of wheat or powdered milk also require a permit from the Import Subsidy Office. Prescription of Currency No prescription of currency requirements are 546 in force. Payments between Venezuela and Chile and Mexico may be made through accounts m a in t a in ed w i th each other by the Central Bank of Venezuela and the central banks of Chile, Colombia, the Dom in ican Republic, and Mexico. Imports and import Payments Cer ta in goods either are prohibited or may be imported only by the Governmen t; the former include f u l ly assembled automobiles and certain textiles. Many other commodities require import licenses; quan t i ta t ive restrictions are maintained on these items for protective purposes. Import licen- ses for some products are issued on the condition that the importer has purchased domestic prod- ucts equal to a prescribed percentage of the amount imported. Imports eligible for the subsidy of Bs 1.15 (wheat and powdered m i lk) requ ire perm i ts f rom the Import Subsidy Office and import licenses f rom the Ministry of Develop- ment. All other commodities are free from import licensing. Payments for Invisibles All payments for invisibles may be made freely; exchange for this purpose is purchased f rom commercial banks. Exports and Export Proceeds Exports of certain fu rs and hides, scrap metals, and used rubber are prohibited. Licenses are requ ired for the exportation of machinery, equip- ment, vehicles and accessories, tires, metals and alloys, medicinal products, textile fibers, leather, salt, seafood, forest products, construction mate- rials, molasses, and re-exports. Licenses for the export of some products essential to the domestic economy (including coffee and cacao) must be obtained from the Ministries of Development and Agriculture and Livestock. Export permits from the Import Sub- sidy Office are also required if commodities eligi- ble for the Bs 1.15 subsidy are a substantial com- ponent of the export. The export of gold requires an export license issued by the Ministry of Finance. The petroleum and iron ore exporting companies must surrender to the Central Bank export proceeds, to the extent of their local cur- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution rency requirements (including taxe s ), at a rate of Bs 4.40 per US$1. Exporters of coffee and cacao may sell exchange proceeds to the Central Bank at Bs 4.485 per US$1; they may receive an addi- tional payment for this exchange in the form of a subsidy, calculated to prevent the f.o.b. bolivar prices of these products in Venezuelan ports from falling below specified m in imum amounts regard- less of external dollar prices for these products. The m in imum prices guaranteed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock range from Bs 175.00 to Bs 185.44 a quintal for coffee, and from Bs 121 to Bs 170 a quintal for cacao. The bene- fit of these arrangements is also extended to firms processing domestic coffee or cacao for export. On the basis of the prices existing dur ing 1969, such additional payments were being made for all grades of coffee. The export of strategic materials to Rhodesia and South Afr ica is prohibited. Proceeds from Invisibles Exchange receipts from disposable. Capital invisibles are freely All capital transfers are permitted freely. Bro- kerage activity in Venezuela, however, in shares or units of foreign investment trusts or mu tual funds is prohibited. There is no registration pro- cedure for incoming capital. The Central Bank is authorized to regulate bank credit to companies whose capital is more than 50 per cent owned by physical persons or companies that are resident or domiciled abroad. Gold Residents may hold, acquire, and sell gold coins in Venezuela for numismatic and invest- ment purposes; authorized banks may freely negotiate gold coins among themselves and with other residents. Residents other than the mone- tary authorities, producers of gold, and author- ized industrial users are not allowed without spe- cial permission to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewelry or coins, at home or abroad. Registered gold dealers, however, may freely and without a license import gold in any form. Exports of gold in any form other than VENEZUELA jewelry requ ire licenses issued by the Ministry of Finance; such licenses are normally granted, on application, for exports by or on behalf of the mone tary authorities, producers of gold, and industrial users. Changes during 1969 Du r ing the year, a number of additional com- modities were made subject to an individual import license, and importing procedures were tightened. July 2. The Central Bank was authorized to regu- late bank credit granted to foreign individuals, partnerships, or corporations with more than 50 per cent foreign capital participation, in order to ensure that the use of such credits would be lim- ited to normal working capital needs. The firms affected would be subject to these regulations as long as they had any debt to a bank operating in Venezuela. In addition, these firms were required to ma in ta in in Venezuela 100 per cent of (1) credits received from abroad, including those from parent companies, (2) paid-up capital and surplus, and (3) retained earnings as of June 30, 1969; the percentage requirement could be adjusted by the authorities in special cases. The firms were not permitted to make investments abroad, either directly or indirectly, and their existing investments abroad were to be liquidated w i th in 12 months. Investments made for the pur- pose of increasing exports of products manufac- tured in Venezuela were exempt. Banks were requested not to extend to the firms and individu- als affected more credit in 1969 than had been granted to them in 1968. July 3. The guaranteed minimum prices for coffee were modified. July 7. New restrictions were announced on imports of automobiles for personal use. August 4. The regulations concerning bank credit to foreign-controlled firms were modified. Such companies were redefined by the Central Bank as those owned by persons or companies resident or domiciled abroad; companies mainly owned by foreign individuals resident in Vene- zuela would no longer be affected. September 12. A reciprocal credit agreement was signed with Colombia. 547 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Exchange Rate System No par value for the Vietnamese Piastre has been established with the Fund. The official parity is VN$80.00 per US$1. No sales or pur- chases of exchange take place at the official rate. The official rate plus a Consolidation Premium or a Consolidation Tax of VN$38.00 per US$1, giving rise to effective rates of VN$117.20 buy ing and VN$118.80 selling, applies to all exchange receipts other than those arising from exports of rubber and hand ic ra ft products, and to all sales of exchange except those for imports subject to an equalization tax (taxe de péréqua- tion). Effective buying rates of VN$116.03 and VN$205.10, respectively, result from the applica- tion of a 1 per cent tax on proceeds from rubber exports and a 75 per cent subsidy on proceeds from hand ic ra ft exports. On the selling side, the application of equalization taxes to the VN$118.80 rate results in effective selling rates ranging from VN$125.80 to VN$353.80 per U.S. dollar for imports subject to equalization tax. (See Table of Exchange Rates, below.) Rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar are computed on the basis of their official parities in relation to the effective U.S. dollar rate applied to the transaction concerned. Payments and receipts through the official market must be effected through the authorized exchange banks. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Direc- torate-General of Exchange of the National Bank of Viet-Nam. Most remittances must have the prior approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange; the authority to approve some pay- ments for private invisibles has been delegated to the authorized banks. Imports under the U.S. "Public Aid" program 1 require no license but are subject to special contracts or procurement procedures. Licenses for other imports financed with U.S. aid are issued by the Ministry of Econ- omy (Directorate of General Trade) and are 1 I.e., imports under the Dollar Project, under part of the AID program, under Development Loan Funds, and under Titles II and III of U.S. P.L. 480. 548 countersigned by the National Bank (Directorate of Foreign A i d ). Licenses for imports financed w i th Viet-Nam's own exchange are issued by the Ministry of Economy (Directorate of External Trade) and are countersigned by the Directo- rate-General of Exchange. However, for imports of a noncommercial character, machinery spare parts, and cultural materials, when valued at US$50 or less, the Directorate-General of Ex- change is authorized to grant licenses. Export licenses are issued by the Ministry of Economy (Directorate of External Trade), but they also require the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Prescription of Currency All imports shipped from Hong Kong, irrespective of their origin, must be paid for in sterling. All other imports financed by Viet- Nam's own resources must be settled in U.S. dol- lars, w i th the exception of imports from France and imports effected within the framework of a loan agreement, to both of which special regula- tions apply. Special rules are also applicable to impor ts financed by the U.S. Agency for Interna- tional Development (A ID ). All other settlements are made in convertible currencies, mainly in U.S. dollars, pounds sterling, or French francs. There is an inoperative paymen ts agreement with the Republic of Korea. Nonresident Accounts Nonresidents may maintain accounts with banks, subject to the approval of the Directo- rate-General of Exchange. Nonresident Accounts in Free Piastres may be freely credited with the proceeds of sale of con- vertible exchange and may be freely debited for most payments to residents. A category of nonresident accounts, called Capital Accounts, covers piastres owned by non- resident foreigners that may not be transferred abroad. Balances in Capital Accounts may be used for investment in certain areas of economic activity designated by the Ministry of National Economy. Their use is subject to the approval of the Directorate-General of Exchange. Investments ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution financed from Capital Accounts generally are not covered by the Investment Law of 1963 (see sec- tion on Capital, below), and proceeds from the liquidation of such investments are credited to Capital Accounts unless the Ministry of National Economy has declared them eligible for the privi- leges of the law. Balances in Capital Accounts are negotiable between nonresident foreigners. Imports and Import Payments Most imports are made in accordance with an annual commercial import program, the bulk of which is divided into three parts: (1) imports financed with funds from the U.S. AID; (2) imports financed from Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange resources; and (3) "third-country- financed imports," i.e., imports financed with Japa- nese reparations, French, German, and Japanese loans, or French export credit. In principle, prod- ucts imported under the AID program are not included among imports that are financed other- wise, and vice versa. However, when AID financ- ing proves insufficient for obtaining imports of essential products, such imports may be financed from Viet-Nam's official exchange reserves. Many imports are prohibited. There is an open general license procedure for most permitted imports that are financed from the country's own exchange. Ind iv idual import licenses, which are not transfer- able, are, however, required for practically all imports. Some imports are permitted without foreign exchange (sans devises) ; these include imports by end-users with branches abroad, gifts and samples, spare parts for international airlines, and other small imports, when the Directorate-Gen- eral of Exchange is satisfied that the foreign exchange privately held by the importer has not been obtained illegally. Imports from Cambodia are suspended. Import licenses generally are valid for all noncommunist countries except Cambodia; the main exception is that certain goods financed by U.S. aid must orig- inate in specified noncommunist countries (the Republic of China, India, the Republic of Korea, Morocco, Pakistan, the Philippines, Singapore, Tunisia, or the United States). Licenses for imports from the United States are valid for eight months, those for imports from Europe and VIET-NAM Afr ica for six months, and those for other areas for four months. Imports are classified in 12 broad categories. An importer may make application to import goods only in a specified number of categories. Import licenses under programs financed by the U.S. AID are not issued for shipments valued at less than US$5,000. No minimum value is imposed on licenses for imports financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. Penalties for underutilization apply when less than 90 per cent of the value of the import license is used. The rate of penalty is VN$10 for each unutilized U.S. dollar. All imports financed with Viet-Nam's own for- eign exchange and valued at VN$ 10,000 or over require a letter of credit. Mandatory margin deposits are prescribed on the opening of import letters of credit for most commodities; depending on the goods involved, these deposits are 25, 35, and 50 per cent. They are calculated on the countervalue at VN$118 per US$1 of the invoice price plus the applicable equalization tax. A l though the m in imum margins are set at 25, 35, and 50 per cent, commercial banks are free to apply higher margins according to the standing of the importer and the market situation for the commodity concerned. Some essential commodi- ties are exempt from margin deposit require- ments; these include flour, milk, sugar, newsprint, petroleum products, fertilizers, agricultural im- plements, and raw materials and indus tr ial equ ipment imported by end-users. An import license constitutes at the same time an exchange license. Exchange is granted for all authorized imports at the official rate plus a Con- solidation Tax of VN$38 per US$1. An "auster- ity" tax, ranging from 5 per cent to 750 per cent and payable upon customs clearance, is charged on the c.i.f. value of nonessential or competitive imports calculated at the official rate of exchange. Many imports also are subject to an equalization tax, ranging from VN$7 to VN$235 per US$1 and payable upon the opening of a letter of credit, when they are financed with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange or sans devises', most imports financed by foreign aid are exempt from this tax. 549 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Payments for Invisibles Exports and Export Proceeds Most paymen ts for invisibles requ ire approval by the Directorate-General of Exchange. Ex- change for all au thor ized inv is ib les is sold at the off ic ial ra te, plus a consolidation tax of VN$38 per US$1. S tuden ts are granted US$80 a mon th for s tudy in the Republic of China or Hong Kong, and US$150 a mon th for s tudy else- whe re; they are also granted allocations for hous- ing and for ex t rao rd ina ry expenses. Foreign spe- cialists employed in Viet-Nam may t rans fer 35 per cent of the ir salary every mon th; they are also en t i t led to a special a l loca t ion for home leave. In pr inc ip le foreign firms are generally pe rm i t- ted to t ran s fer up to 70 per cent of the ir net a n n u al profit a f ter tax, a f ter exam ina t ion of their accounts and a f ter deduc t ion of any losses in pre- vious years, but at present such profit transfers are tempo ra r i ly suspended. Profit t rans fe rs by fore ign enterprises established or expanded af ter 1963 u n d er the terms of the 1963 Inves tment Law are governed by the provisions of that law (see section on Capital, be low ). All d iv idends declared in Viet-Nam and acc ru ing to nonresi- den ts may in p r inc ip le be t rans fe r red in f u l l, a f ter payment of taxes. Re s ident na t iona ls may once a year, subject to p r ior au tho r i z a t ion by the Na t ional Bank, acquire fore ign exchange for tou r ist t ravel equ iva lent to up to US$30 a day, depending on the ir financial s t a tu s, and on the area to be visited, and subject to a l im it of US$500 a yea r; ch i ldren under 12 are en t i t led to one half of this allocation. These amoun ts may be supp lemen ted by the equ iva lent of US$40 in foreign bankno te s. Vietnamese na t iona ls are requ ired to pay an exit visa fee of VN$20,000 for each c o u n t ry to be v is i ted .2 Travelers are perm i t ted to take w i th them up to VN$ 1,000 in Vietnamese bankno tes. Foreign exchange not used by foreign trave lers may be re- exported when a declaration is made to the cus- toms and evidence is given that any utilized exchange has been sold to an au thor ized bank. All pe rm i t ted exports require a license; they mu st be registered w i th an authorized bank, wh ich is responsible for the repatriation of the foreign exchange. All exports to commun ist coun- tr ies and exports to any des t ina t ion of manu fac- t u r ed or s em im a n u f a c t u r ed products originally impo r ted in to V ie t-Nam, gold, rice, rice products, and ce r ta in other items are prohibited. Export proceeds must be surrendered at the off ic ial rate, plus a Consolidation Prem ium of VN$38 per US$1. Export subsidies are granted on specified m inor exports as follows: VN$52.50 per k i log ram on black tea, VN$20 per kilogram on green tea, VN$16 per kilogram on cotton wool and duck fea thers, VN$20 per l i ter on fish sauce, and VN$500 per ton on cattle bones. In add i t ion, h a n d i c r a ft products are entitled to a subs idy of 75 per cent on the f.o.b. price. Export proceeds of rubber are sub ject to a tax of 1 per cent on the f .o .b. va lue calculated at the official ra te of exchange. Proceeds from Invisibles All proceeds f rom invisibles must be surren- dered at the off ic ial rate, plus a Consolidation P r em i um of VN$38 per US$1. Foreign m i l i t a ry personnel and official U.S. c i v i l i an personnel serving in Viet-Nam are paid in scrip ("m i l i ta ry payment certificates" or MPC's) wh ich can be exchanged for piastres only through o f f ic ial channe l s; those personnel are not permit- ted to possess foreign banknotes or travelers checks in V ie t -Nam. There are m i l i ta ry bank ing f a c i l i t i e s, however, under wh ich eligible foreign persons may open accounts in piastres, MPC's, or U.S. do l la rs at two U.S. banks in Saigon. Trave lers en t e r ing Viet-Nam may bring in any am o u nt of foreign exchange, but it must be dec lared to the customs upon en t ry. A traveler may b r ing in Vietnamese bankno tes up to a total of VN$ 1,000. Foreign m i l i t a ry and civilian per- sonnel (gove rnment off ic ia ls) are not permitted to b r i ng fore ign banknotes into Viet-Nam. Capital 2 The t r av el regu la t ions were tho rough ly revised w i th effect f r om J a n u a ry 1, 1970. For details, see e n t ry for December 13 in section "Changes d u r i ng 1969," below. Under general regulations, capital may be impor ted w i thout formalities, but foreign inves- 550 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tors must register their capital with the Vietnam- ese authorities and agree on the terms of the investment in order to be able to repatriate the ir capital and to transfer profits. Under the Invest- ment Law of 1963, special benefits may be accorded to new foreign investments in the sec- tors of the economy that are given high priority. Applications must be approved by the interde- par tmen tal Investment Committee. The m in imum investment in agriculture was established at VN$0.5 m i l l ion, and in industry at VN$1 mil- lion. Imports of equ ipment and spare parts needed by foreign under tak ings covered by the law are exempt from customs duties. Foreign technicians employed by these enterprises are exempt from income tax for 2 years. Foreign investments are f ree of taxes on profits, securities, and real estate for specified periods of time. The new investments are not subject to any nationali- zation measures for the first 15 years from the date of the w r i t ten authorization granted to the inves tor; they are accorded the same treatment as that applicable to domestic investments. The law provides for the t rans fer of profits at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent of the invested capital, and for the repa tr ia t ion of the original investment a f ter 5 years at an annual rate of up to 20 per cent if the capital is newly imported (a f ter 20 years for inves tment of foreign-owned capital pre- viously held in V ie t -Nam ). All imports and exports of capital ( inc lud ing imports in k ind) are settled at the rate of VN$ 118 per US$1. Investments not covered by the Investment Law are subject to the regulations and case-to- case decisions of the Directorate-General of Exchange, wh ich normally authorizes the transfer VIET-NAM taxes (although at present these transfers are sus- pended) but does not permit disinvestment; such of up to 70 per cent of net annual profits after inves tmen ts are not eligible for the above-men- tioned tax exemptions. Cold W i th in Viet-Nam, the holding of gold and all transactions in gold are subject to licensing, but the controls are not rigidly enforced and unli- censed holdings of gold by individuals are toler- ated. Only the National Bank is empowered to import and export gold. All domestic transactions in gold are subject to a luxury tax of 10 per cent on the sale value or the manu fac tu r ing cost. The export of gold by physical or jur id ical persons o ther than the National Bank is prohibited. The import of gold by physical or juridical persons other than the National Bank is also prohibited, with the following exceptions : ( 1 ) Vietnamese settled in Laos may, when returning to Viet-Nam, b r ing in up to 13 taels 3 of gold in the form of jewe l ry; (2) residents may import gold without allocation of foreign exchange, provided that they have an import license and pay a customs du ty of 130 per cent and an austerity tax of 150 per cent as well as an equalization tax of VN$100 per US$1; ( 3) nonresidents may, w i thout allocation of foreign exchange, bring into Viet-Nam any qu an t i ty of gold, provided that its entry is declared and that it is deposited in safe custody w i th an authorized bank; the utilization of such gold is subject to prior authorization by the Directorate-General of Exchange, and if it is sold in Viet-Nam the sales proceeds must be credited to a Capital Account. Table of Exchange Rates (as at December 31, 1969) (piastres per U.S. dollar) Buying Rate) 79.20 (Official No transactions. 116.03 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Pre- mium less 1% tax) Rubber exports. 117.20 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Premium of VN$38) All exchange receipts except those arising f rom exports of rubber and hand ic ra ft products. 205.10 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Premium plus Subsidy of 75%) Hand ic ra ft exports. Selling 80.80 (Official No transactions. Rate) 118.80 (Official Rate plus Consolidation Tax of VN$38) Impor ts not subject to equalization tax. All in- visibles. Authorized capital repatriation. 125.80- (Official Rate plus Consolidation Tax 353.80 plus Equalization Tax at 35 Rates Rang- ing from VN$7 to VN$235 per U.S. Dollar) Impo r ts subject to equalization tax. 3 One tael equals about 37.57 grams or 1.18 troy ounces. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution VIET-NAM Changes during 1969 February 72. A new procedure (substitution of a Program Assistance G rant Agreement or PAGA for the previous Procurement Authoriza- tion system) for general commodity imports under the AID import program was introduced. February 28. The ta r i ff s truc ture was simplified by Decree No. 19-SL/TC/ February 26, 1969 of the Prime Minister. The number of categories of imported products was reduced from 1,950 to 1,450 on the basis of the Brussels customs nomenc la ture. Also, the number of customs duties and aus te r i ty tax rates was reduced from 18 and 27, respectively, to 12. The range of the austerity tax was changed from 10-210 per cent to 5-200 per cent. February 28. The customs duty and austerity tax on pr iva te imports of gold were increased from 90 to 130 per cent and from 75 to 150 per cent, respectively. March 1. The allocation of exchange for tour- ist and business travel was limited to 30 days a year, instead of 90 days, as previously. Conse- quently, the m ax imum of US$2,700 was reduced to US$900. May 1. By Decree No. 164/BKT/NgT/PC/ND of May 3, 1969 the value of cer ta in imports and exports —mainly gifts, items bought by tourists, samples, etc. —which were entitled to license exemption was increased to VN$ 18,000 and VN$60,000 for exported goods and to VN$ 12,000, VN$21,000, and VN$30,000 for imported goods, depending on the mode of export and import and/or the type of the product. June 12. The equalization tax on private imports of gold was raised from VN$60 per US$1 to VN$ 100 per US$1. June 12. The number of equalization tax rates was increased from 21 to 35, with a range from VN$7 to VN$460 per U.S. dollar and an average rate of VN$65, almost twice the previous average rate. The taxes were also extended in scope, so as to cover 150 categories ( inc lud ing some AID- financed goods), against 107 previously (with AID-financed goods exempted). During the next few months, the range was narrowed again to VN$7-235 per U.S. dollar. July 11. Permissible profit transfers of foreign firms were reduced from 90 per cent to 70 per cent of annual profits after tax. July 11. Monthly transfers by foreign special- ists were reduced from 60 per cent to 35 per cent of their salary. July 29. The maximum allocation of foreign exchange for tourist travel was reduced from US$900 a person a year to US$500 a person a year. The allocation ceased to apply to business travel, applications for which were henceforth considered on their merits. July 30. By Decree No. 118/BKT/NgT/NC/ TgC the processing of import licenses for passenger automobiles and scooters was temporarily sus- pended. Licensing was resumed on November 11. August 25. The Ministry of Economy issued a "List of commodities authorized for commercial import," which was subsequently supplemented on September 11, 1969. All goods not listed were regarded as being temporarily banned for impor- ta t ion with Viet-Nam's own foreign exchange. August 30. By Joint Decision of the Ministries of Economy and Finance No. 374/BKT/BTC export subsidies for a number of secondary prod- ucts were modified. September 25. By interministerial Commu- niqué No. 173 m in imum margin deposits on the opening of import letters of credit were increased from 10, 15, and 20 per cent to 20, 25, and 50 per cent. September 29. By Decree No. 1038-ND/ TH.T/PC3 of the Prime Minister the subsidy for students abroad of VN$38 per U.S. dollar was abolished. Beginning with the academic year 1969-70, exchange transfers related to the aca- 552 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution demie expenses of students abroad were all effected at the rate of VN$118 per U.S. dollar, irrespective of the date on which the beneficiary had le ft the country. October 21. Decree No. 188/BKT of the Min- istry of Economy withdrew its Communiqué No. 777/BKT/TNTV of Janua ry 28, 1964, which had suspended most direct imports from France and had prohibited the issuance of import licenses to importers of French nationality resident in Viet- Nam. October 24. The list of commodities authorized for commercial import was withdrawn and all goods not specifically prohibited could again be imported with Vietnamese exchange. October 24. Higher rates of "austerity" taxes were imposed on a selective basis by Decree No. 1569/BTC/BKT of October 23, 1969. Austerity taxes were levied on 1,523 items constituting about 73 per cent of the total current value of imports. The remaining 27 per cent of imports, which were exempt from the tax increase, included such essentials as rice, condensed milk, fertilizers, and medical equipment. The new "aus- terity" tax rates were estimated to raise the effec- tive cost of imports to an average of about VN$250 per U.S. dollar. The range of the auster- ity tax was changed from 5-200 per cent to 5- 750 per cent. October 30. Profit transfers by foreign firms were temporarily suspended. November 14. By joint Communiqué No. 16118-BTC/BKT of the Ministries of Economy and of Finance the "austerity" tax rates on cer- tain essential commodities (including wheat flour, gasoline, and kerosene) were reduced. December 13. Decree No. 193/SL/TC of the Prime Minister established that with effect from January 1, 1970 the following regulations would apply to Vietnamese traveling abroad: VIET-NAM 1. The exit visa fee (VN$20,000 for each coun try to be visited) was increased in accord- ance with Decree No. 193/SL/TC of Decem- ber 13, 1969 of the Prime Minister to VN$50,000 for each country visited, if the duration of the stay would be less than one month; VN$75,000 for each coun try visited, if the duration of the stay would be more than one month and less than two months; and VN$ 100,000 for each country visited, if the dura t ion of the stay would be more than two months but not more than three months. Children under 10 must pay half of these fees. Exit visas for more than three months were not granted. 2. Each year, Vietnamese citizens would be allowed to go abroad only once, for a maximum period of three months. If the traveler wished to go to more than one country, he was required to obtain prior authorization from the Ministry of Interior; Vietnamese embassies abroad were not permitted to grant visas enabling consecutive travel from one country to another. The need for foreign travel for reasons other than tourism must be properly documented and required confirma- t ion by the professional organization concerned. 3. Each person authorized to go abroad would be en t i t led to purchase the following amounts of foreign exchange at the official exchange rate plus consolidation tax: (a) US$200 if the duration of the tr ip were less than one month or US$300 if it were one month or more; (b) for medical treat- men t, US$500 a month. 4. Boys of 10 or older could not accompany their parents abroad on tourist trips and would be permitted to travel abroad only for medical t rea tment or for other reasons deemed genuinely necessary. December 26. The minimum margin deposits on import letters of credit were changed to 25, 35, and 50 per cent. 553 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 0.0710937 gram of fine gold per Yugoslav D inar or Din 12.50 = US$1. All exchange t ransac t ions take place at rates based on the par value. Administration of Control On the basis of laws governing these matters, the Federal Execu t ive Council prescribes the gen- eral provisions in respect of foreign trade and exchange transac t ions. The Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade, by v i r tue of these general pro- v is ions, establishes ru les and regu la t ions, makes decisions gove rn ing commercial transac t ions, and issues impo rt and export licenses when requ i red. It is also charged w i th secu r ing balanced t rade w i th paymen ts agreement coun t r ies. The Federal Secretariat for Finance prescribes the specific prov is ions gove rn ing exchange t ransac t ions. This Secretariat and the Na t ional Bank of Yugoslavia adm in i s ter the exchange control. The Na t ional Bank prescribes the methods of payment to and from foreign coun t r ies; it also licenses compensa- tion t ran sac t ion s. All fo re ign exchange t ransac t ions must be car- ried out th rough the Na t ional Bank or an author- ized bank. The la t ter are of three types. Fully au tho r ized bank s, wh ich must have a m in imum fore ign exchange c red it f u nd equ iva lent to US$2 m i l l ion and an annual exchange tu rnov er of a least US$80 m i l l ion, may engage in all fo re ign exchange transac t ions in Yugoslavia and abroad, as well as in fo re ign credit ope ra t ions ( inc lud ing the g ran t ing of g u a r a n t e e s ). L im i ted au thor ized banks, wh ich mu st have a m i n im um fo re ign exchange cred it f u nd equ iva lent to US$400,000, may conduct fo re ign exchange operations in Yugoslavia on ly; they may n e i th er keep foreign exchange accounts abroad nor engage in foreign cred it opera t ions, except th rough the in te rmed ia ry of a f u l ly au tho r ized cred it bank. Au thor ized exchange offices, which may only deal in foreign bankno tes and t rave le rs checks; th is s ta tus is open to all commen çai and savings banks. Commercial exports and imports may be effected by all economic o rgan iza t ions (both pro- duc ing and t r ad ing und e r t ak ing s) registered for 554 th is purpose with district courts. Registration is effec ted au toma t ica l ly, provided that certain con- d i t ions, inc lud ing the provision of m in imum w o r k i ng cap i tal for t rade enterprises, are fu lf i l led. Economic organ iza t ions that are not registered to conduct foreign trade channel the ir orders through economic organizations which export and /or impo rt on the ir own beha lf. Prescription of Currency Paymen ts to and f rom countries with which Yugoslavia has b i la teral paymen ts agreements are made in the currenc ies and according to the pro- cedures set fo r th in those agreements. If no ag reement ex is ts, settlement is usua l ly made in a conve r t ib le cu r rency. Yugoslavia has paymen ts agreemen ts requ i r ing settlements through bilateral c l e a r ing accounts as fo l lows: ( 1) in U.S. dollars w i th A f g h a n i s t a n, A lban ia, Algeria, Brazil, Bul- gar ia, Cambod ia, Czechoslovakia, Eastern Ger- m any, Ghana ,1 Greece, Gu inea, Hung a ry, I s r a e l, Ma l i, Mongolia, Poland, Rum an i a, Spain, T u n i s i a ,- Tu rkey, the U.S.S.R., and the Un i ted A r ab Repub l ic; and (2) in the ir respective cur- renc ies w i th Ind ia and Iraq. Certain settlements w i th Co lomb ia, Mexico, and Pak is tan take place t h r o u gh special accounts. A degree of multilater- a l iza t ion of paymen ts is provided under the bilat- e ral p aym en ts agreements w i th A fgh an i s t an, Iraq, and Ma l i. Nonresident Accounts Foreign ju r id ical and physical persons may m a i n t a in accounts denom ina ted in foreign exchange and in d ina rs in Yugoslavia according to the fo l low ing rules. Foreigners resident outside Yugos lav ia may f r e e ly open accounts in converti- ble currenc ies in Yugos lav ia. Foreign missions and fo re igne rs resident in Yugoslavia may freely open with the Na t ional Bank accounts expressed in fo re ign currencies or dinars. Foreign exchange accounts of foreign juridical and phys ical persons are kept in the currency by 1 The ag reement was te rm ina ted w i th effect from March 1, 1970, when a new b i la te ral paymen ts arrange- m e nt en te red in to force. - W i th e f fect f rom J a n u a ry 1, 1970 all se t t lemen ts took place in conv e r t ib le currenc ies. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution which the account is fed, although payments to the credit of convertible currency accounts may be made in any convertible currency. Balances on these accounts may be used for all payments in Yugoslavia and abroad, except that, if an account is kept in the currency of a country with which Yugoslavia has bilateral payments arrangements, ou tward transfers f rom the account may be made only to that country. Balances on dinar accounts of foreign jur id ical and physical persons are wholly transferab le in foreign exchange if derived from abroad in con- vertible currencies or if the accounts are fed by deposit of the countervalue of imported commod- ities under the foreign exchange regulations. The opening of nonresident accounts to hold local currency deposits accruing from other sources requires the approval of the National Bank, as do all transfers abroad from such accounts. Deposits derived from royalties due to foreign persons, from payments for work per- formed in Yugoslavia by foreigners, from pen- sions, from disabled persons' allowances, or from alimony may be transferred abroad under certain conditions. The rema in ing balances on such d inar accounts may be used for living expenses in Yugoslavia of the account holder and his close f am i ly if the account holder is a physical person, or of the owners and members of the company if the account holder is a jur id ical person. Yugoslav resident na t iona ls may ma in ta in for- eign exchange accounts with the National Bank or any authorized bank. These accounts are inter- est bearing, and interest is paid in foreign cur- rency. Foreign exchange accounts may be retained for an indef in i te period of time and they may be d rawn upon f ree ly for payments in Yugo- slavia and abroad on behalf of the holder or his immediate f am i l y; balances are not transferable, however, to other persons or accounts (see sec- tion on Proceeds from Invisibles, below). Yugo- slav emigrants residing abroad and former emi- grants re tu rn ing to Yugoslavia may also open foreign exchange accounts in Yugoslavia that may be used freely for payments in Yugoslavia or abroad. Imports and Import Payments Commercial imports may be effected only by YUGOSLAVIA economic organizations registered as participating in foreign trade. In addition to economic organi- zations specializing in foreign trade, most major indu s t r i al producers are registered. The import of certain basic foods tu f fs, such as wheat, rice, coffee, lard, edible oil, and sugar, is carried out by economic organizations that have been selected by the Federal Office for Agricultural Products Reserves, on the basis of public bids, to act as its agents. For most commodities, import licenses are not requ ired. All commodities included in the foreign trade nomenclature are classified in five catego- ries according to the manner in which exchange is m ade ava i lab le: LB —liberalized goods; LBO —cond i t iona l ly liberalized goods; GDK—goods imported under global exchange quotas; RK and DK—goods subject to individual quotas (RK if ind iv idual quotas are fixed by quan t i ty and DK if they are fixed in d i n a r s ); and D —imports subject to ad hoc licensing. Certain LBO and RK items are marked with an asterisk to indicate that the allocation of exchange is conditional on prior agreement between importers and domestic pro- ducers of the same or similar commodities con- cern ing the method of importation, the volume of impor ts under trade agreements, etc. About 1,800 items (out of a total of over 4,500) are classified under LB; protective equip- ment for workers and all other goods not specifi- cally included in the LBO, GDK, RK, DK, or D lists are also liberalized and free from any quanti- ta t ive restriction. LB goods are mainly raw mate- r ia ls, foods tu f fs, and spare parts; they also include some consumer goods. In 1969 goods imported under the LB regime accounted for some 21.1 per cent of total imports (or 26.4 per cent of imports from the convertible currency a rea ). Exchange for payments for LB imports f rom the convertible currency area is made avail- able freely in any convertible currency appropri- ate to the exporting country. Payments for im- ports of liberalized goods from payments agree- ment countries must be made in the manner pre- scribed in the relevant payments agreement and may be restricted according to the availability of f u n ds in the appropriate clearing account. The LBO regime is intended to introduce greater flexibility for trade in the principal com- 555 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA modities exchanged w i th paymen ts agreement coun- tries and to achieve balanced t rade w i th such coun- tries. The import requ iremen ts for all commodities f rom bilateral countries, inc lud ing those on the LBO l is t, are determined in consultation between the authorities and the economic organizations m a in ly concerned. On the basis of impo rt propos- als made by the economic organizations, the au thor i t ies negotiate bilateral agreements with the par tner countries so as to ensure that required imports w i ll be available. This permits licensing of Yugoslav exports to these countries for such amounts as are consistent w i th the principle of achieving balanced trade w i th the b i la teral coun- tries. Once agreement has been reached with bilateral par tners with respect to the commodity lists, the economic organizations that have pre- viously expressed their interest in importing from a bilateral country a specified amount of goods on the LBO list must forma l ly under take to import those goods. To this effect they enter into contracts w i th authorized banks for the purchase of the necessary b i la teral currencies. Once these contracts are concluded, the economic organiza- tions involved and all other importers are permit- ted to import commodities on the LBO list freely from countries th at do not have bilateral agree- ments w i th Yugoslavia against payment in convertible currencies wh ich are made freely available against payment in dinars. Imports of goods listed as LBO accounted for about 14.4 per cent of total imports in 1969. The GDK list comprises most consumer goods, some raw materials, and most capital equipment. In 1969 imports of commodities on th is list amounted to about 46.3 per cent of total imports. Such imports can be made under several d ifferent procedures. Those for nonconsumer goods are as follows. Each importer of raw materials and other reproduction materials receives a global foreign exchange quota and may use the exchange so allocated to purchase any such goods listed as GDK. For certain importers (the metal- working, shipbuilding, electrical, and textile industries) the authority to use their allocated foreign exchange quota is dependent on the exports they have made (import-export l ink ing ) .3 Major exporters, i.e., exporters whose exports 3 This system is also applied to certain DK imports. 556 settled in convertible currency account for more t h an 51 per cent of their total sales proceeds, are perm i t ted to pay freely for imports of raw ma te r ia ls and other reproduction materials for the ir own needs. Payment for imports of capi- tal goods on the GDK list may be financed from specific exchange allocations; a considerable por- tion may be freely financed from retention quota f u n ds (see section on Exports and Export Pro- ceeds, be low ), funds originating in depreciation allowances, and credits obtained abroad, includ- ing suppliers' credits. The specific exchange allo- cations are limited ma in ly to large investment projects, including public utilities; the amounts are determined by the Federal Assembly and in 1969 they accounted for some 15 per cent of total imports of equipment. Economic organiza- tions may acquire foreign exchange not exceeding 10 per cent of the ir annual depreciation allow- ance. Certain services may use percentages vary- ing between 30 per cent (ocean and river sh ipp ing) and 100 per cent (air transportation). One half of the exchange thus allocated is in con- vertible and one half in bilateral currency. Impor ts under commodity quotas (list RK or l ist DK ), ma in ly selected agricultural and mineral products (such as wheat, sugar, rice, coffee, and sa l t) but also cigars, cigarettes, and machine tools, are subject to max imum quotas established for each commodity and cannot be imported under any other procedure. The quotas are estab- lished either in physical quantities (RK) or in d ina rs (DK ). There are separate quotas in each case for imports from convertible area countries and paymen ts agreement countries; their alloca- tion among importers is decided by negotiations among the economic organizations.4 Imports of RK and DK items amounted to about 12 per cent of imports in 1969. Goods in list D comprise gunpowder, ammuni- t ion, opu im, motor vehicles, tractors, certain tex- 4 In principle, any such allocation among importers must be agreed upon among economic organizations w i th in the Federal Economic Chamber. If the importers are unable to agree among themselves, the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade is authorized to decide on the d is tr ibu t ion. Imports of coffee, wheat, sugar, rice, and salt for final consumption are administered by the State Food Administration, which is authorized to select the most competitive importer f rom among registered importers. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution tile fibers and yarns, television sets, railroad roll- ing stock, and aircraft. Import licenses are required only for list D commodities. Such licen- ses do not imply the right to purchase foreign exchange; the economic organizations must supply the exchange from their global exchange quotas or retention quotas. Imports of D items accounted for about 6.2 per cent of total imports in 1969. For certain goods there is an additional requirement, irrespective of those set out above, for a special import license ("accordance") issued by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade. These goods are 70 LB items, 32 LBO items, and 72 GDK items. For all 174 items, the Secretariat may prescribe direct importation from the country of origin; these items include a wide range of tropical foodstuffs and fruits, raw mate- rials, fats, oils, and textiles, as well as tin and raw cotton. Private persons who are Yugoslav nationals and hold foreign exchange accounts with Yugo- slav banks may use these funds freely to import goods intended for their own use or the use of close relatives, regardless of the import regime for the goods. Also, Yugoslavs returning from work abroad may import goods intended for their personal needs or the needs of their own house- hold, provided that such goods were paid for from the savings from their foreign earnings; such savings need not be kept on foreign exchange accounts with Yugoslav banks. As an exception to the foregoing, owners of foreign exchange accounts and Yugoslav nation- als working abroad may only import motorcars, trucks, motorcycles, mopeds, and bicycles, together with mounted motors and essential spare parts for these vehicles, through a registered enterprise, provided that payment is made through a foreign exchange account held at a Yugoslav bank. Yugoslav and foreign nationals are exempt from this prescribed manner of pay- ment and method of importation, however, under the following circumstances: when they return for permanent residence in Yugoslavia, provided that they have spent at least five years abroad; when a vehicle is inherited; when a motor vehicle is pur- chased out of an insurance indemnity received for a motor vehicle that has been destroyed and had YUGOSLAVIA originally been paid for in foreign currency; and if they have spent at least two years abroad con- tinuously and have owned a vehicle for at least two years. Yugoslav citizens returning from a tourist trip abroad may import any amount of goods intended for the needs of their household. How- ever, if the value of the goods exceeds Din 1,000, these goods must be handed over, at the customs office at the point of entry, to a domestic for- warder for delivery to the owner's address; such delivery cannot be made unless the customs duties are paid. Compensation transactions are only authorized in exceptional circumstances; in 1969 they accounted for 0.7 per cent of total imports. Importers are required to notify authorized banks of all payments abroad of more than the equivalent of US$20,000 5 one month before the payments fall due. At this time they are also required to deposit with an authorized bank an amount in dinars equal in value to the import order. The deposits are interest bearing and they are used to purchase the foreign exchange for the import payment. Many agricultural commodities and foodstuffs are subject to variable import levies. A 1 per cent special tax for customs evidence and a 3 per cent equalization tax are payable on all commodities not exempt from customs du ty. Payments for Invisibles Payments for invisibles related to merchandise transactions, including transportation, are fully liberalized. Exchange to cover export promotion expenses abroad is made freely available to exporters. Pensions, wages, and salaries are trans- ferable under certain conditions. Payments in respect of royalties and alimony granted by court order are freely transferable, but if a payment is to be made to a country with which Yugoslavia maintains bilateral payments arrangements, then such payments may be made only if the agree- ment in question provides for this to be done. The National Bank may sell foreign currency up 5 However, for imports of certain raw materials only payments of more than US$100,000 are governed by this regulation, and no dinar advance deposit is required. 557 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA to the equ iva lent of US$32 for remittances for court and other fees abroad and for specified per- sonal expenses. The Na t ional Bank may sell any amount of foreign exchange for certain unspeci- fied purposes and in jus t if ied cases. There is a basic annual exchange allowance of the equ iva lent of US$32 for each person over 14 for tourist travel abroad. Travel agencies may obtain special exchange allocations to enable them to sell organized tours abroad against pay- ment in d inars. The Na t ional Bank may also au thor ize travel agencies to sell foreign exchange for both group and ind iv idual travel in amounts exceeding the equ iva lent of US$32. The exchange is provided in the form of travelers checks and cash. Paymen ts for other invisibles may be made f rom the remitter's own foreign exchange funds (e.g., from retention quotas, or, when made by various social and sociopolitical organizations, f rom specific annual allocations); when such exchange is not available, payments for invisibles that have not been liberalized are subject to the approval of the Na t ional Bank. Not more than Din 50, in denom ina t ions of Din 10 or less, or in equ iva lent denominations in old d inar notes, may be taken out by travelers.6 Foreign travelers may b r ing in and take out any amount in foreign exchange w i thout declaring it. Exports and Export Proceeds In pr inc ip le, exports are free of control, except for cer ta in raw materials that are in short supply on the domestic marke t, inc lud ing copper and cer ta in other materials such as gunpowder, weap- ons, and narcotic drugs. Exports to coun tr ies w i th wh ich Yugoslavia has a b i la teral payments agree- ment are sub ject to approval by the Federal Sec- re tar iat for Foreign Trade. Such approval may be given for a group of commodities or for all com- modities to be exported w i th in a certain period (global app rova l ). Permission to export to bilat- eral countries may be made conditional on an unde r tak ing to import from such countries. In accordance with bilateral trade agreements, Yugoslavia restrains exports of certain commodi- ties to France, Germany, Sweden, and the United States. 6 Raised f rom Din 50 to Din 100 w i th effect f rom Janua ry 23, 1970. 558 Proceeds f rom exports must be repatriated w i th in 90 days f rom the date of exportation, unless specific approval is granted to deviate from this rule. The surrender of these proceeds is not requ i red. The fu ll export proceeds may be cred- ited to foreign exchange sight deposit accounts wh ich the exporter ma in ta ins with an authorized bank of his choice; all convertible currencies may be credited to one account, but separate accounts mu st be established for each b i la teral currency. Exchange on these accounts may either be used, subject to the relevant regulations, for payments for imports and invisibles or be sold to an au thor ized bank. Retention quotas may be used to pay for imports of certain consumer goods if such imports are made by economic organizations that are in the catering and tour ist industries or are engaged in se t t ing up trade fa i rs, and by film enterprises; such imports are also permitted as consignment stocks. The part of the export proceeds that remains at the free disposal of the exporter for payments abroad is referred to as the retention quota; the rest may be retained indef in i te ly but can only be used to import liberalized raw materials and cannot earn interest. The retention quotas may also be placed on interest-bearing time deposit accounts w i th authorized banks. The permitted retention rates va ry according to the type of export concerned, the share of exports in total sales of the economic organization concerned, and the increase in exports achieved over the past yea r; the basic rate is 7 per cent, but for many economic organizations the ac tua l ly permitted rate is much higher, the other fixed rates being 10, 12, 20, 50, 60, and 100 per cent and the rate for most organizations being on a sliding scale. In some instances (fore ign tourist services, sales of newly m ined gold to the Na t ional B a n k ), sales against payment in d inars are regarded as exports for retention quota purposes. Proceeds from invisibles Proceeds from invisibles must be repatriated w i th in 90 days from the date on which the claim is payable but need not be surrendered in full. Various retention quota rates apply to receipts from services. Exchange proceeds may be used for payments abroad connected with the activities of the economic organization concerned, includ- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ing payments for purchases of equipment and other material for its own needs. The retained exchange is not transferable to economic organi- zations other than those with which the recipients are cooperating in technical and business matters, but it can always be sold to authorized banks. If the exchange is used to pay for imports, the usual import procedures apply. Residents may hold interest-bearing foreign currency accounts in Yugoslavia. The accounts may be credited with the full amount of a per- son's savings from per diem allowances, salaries, and other earnings abroad, from fellowships, and from royalties. They may also be credited with the fu ll amount of foreign exchange accruing from inheritances, indemnities, insurance, and similar compensations up to an amount equiva- lent to Din 100,000 per transaction; for amounts in excess of this figure, 30 per cent of the excess may be placed to the credit of the account and 70 per cent must be surrendered. In respect of pensions, disabled persons' allowances, alimony, and grants received from abroad, up to 30 per cent of the total amount received may be placed to the credit of a foreign exchange account and 70 per cent must be surrendered. These accounts may be used freely for the personal needs of the account holder and of close members of his fam i ly; they are not transferable to other persons or accounts and may be retained for an indefinite period of time. Retail sales of manufac tured goods by author- ized trade organizations to foreign tourists in Yugoslavia paying in convertible exchange are made at a discount of 10 per cent, representing the exemption from turnover taxes. This discount is granted only on purchases in authorized shops against checks expressed in foreign currencies or against certain foreign banknotes. Not more than Din 100 in Yugoslav bank- notes, in denominations of Din 10 or less, or in equivalent denominations in old dinar notes, may be brought in by travelers.7 Capital Foreign loans and credits may be freely con- 7 Raised from Din 100 to Din 200 with effect from J anu a ry 23, 1970. YUGOSLAVIA tracted by fu l ly authorized banks and economic organizations, up to a specified percentage of their foreign exchange credit fund, their retention quotas, or their foreign exchange amortization allocations. Foreign loans and credits must be recorded with the National Bank. Such loans must ordinarily be repaid with currency obtained by the economic organization as export retention quotas and foreign exchange amortization alloca- tions. All other transfers of a capital nature by residents or nonresidents require individual licenses. Foreigners may invest in certain Yugo- slav economic organizations through joint ven- tures; such foreign investment is limited to 49 per cent of the organization's capital. The foreign partner in a joint venture must either reinvest or deposit in a Yugoslav bank 20 per cent of its annual profits, and profit transfers abroad must be financed from the retention quota and are thus limited generally to 7 per cent of the joint foreign exchange earnings.8 Foreign venture's equity participation in Yugoslav firms is not per- mitted. Foreign firms are permitted to establish representational offices in Yugoslavia. The investment income of Yugoslav economic organizations earned abroad is subject neither to repatriation nor to surrender requirements. Resi- dents are obliged, however, to repatriate and, w i th the exception of inheritances, to surrender all foreign exchange held or accruing abroad on capital account. Capital transfers abroad by resi- dents are usually not approved, but economic organizations participating in foreign enterprises may be allowed by the Federal Secretariat for Foreign Trade and the Federal Secretariat for Finance to export the necessary capital. A decision of the Federal Executive Council on October 14, 1955 requires the Yugoslav authorities to continue to permit the remittance of inheritances to citizens of the United States, provided that the remittance is requested within three years from the date of distribution of the estate. Gold Residents who are private persons may hold 8 With effect from January 2, 1970, profit transfers were permitted up to one th ird of the jo int venture's con- vertible currency earnings f rom exports of goods and services. 559 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA gold coins in Yugoslavia, which may only be sold to the National Bank of Yugoslavia, and they may freely hold, purchase, import, and sell gold jewelry and other articles of gold. Domestic eco- nomic organizations that have been registered as trading in gold may import gold jewelry under the GDK import regime; they may freely export gold jewelry and other articles of gold. The export of gold coins is not permitted, except under licenses issued by the National Bank. Sales of newly mined gold to the National Bank against payment in dinars (calculated by applying the Din 12.50 per U.S. dollar rate to a price of US$35 an ounce) are regarded as exports and entitle the seller to a retention quota in converti- ble foreign exchange. The National Bank sells this gold, for indus t r ial and dental purposes only, to end-users who are not permitted to resell. Changes during 1969 During the year, a number of minor shifts took place between the various import lists, in addition to the shifts of Janua ry 1, 1969. January 1. The import regime for 1969 went into effect. It provided, as announced on October 18, 1968, for the sh if t ing of 178 items from the LBO and GDK lists as follows: 46 f rom GDK and LBO to the LB list, 43 from GDK to the LBO list, 81 from LBO to the GDK list, and 8 from GDK and LBO to the RK list. January 1. The clearing arrangement with Switzerland was terminated; henceforth all settle- ments with that country would take place in con- vertible exchange. February 13. Agreement was reached with Ghana to terminate the clearing arrangement at the end of 1969. Payments for all contracts signed after December 31, 1969 were to be made in convertible currency. This date was subse- quently changed to March 1, 1970. March 17. Agreement was reached with main- land China to terminate the bilateral payments arrangement. Payments took place in convertible currencies from July 1, 1969. April 1. The margin of the special tar iff con- cessions provided for by the Trade Expansion and Economic Cooperation Agreement with India and the United Arab Republic of December 23, 560 1967 was increased from 40 per cent to 50 per cent. April 3. Accordances ceased to be required for imports of 27 items on List A. April 16. The global exchange quota for the import in 1969 of goods for private consumption was fixed at the equivalent of US$20.8 million. April 24. A ceiling was fixed for the utilization by authorized banks in 1969 of credits taken up abroad and guarantees given to nonresidents. May 31. Agreement in principle was reached with the United Arab Republic to terminate the bilateral payments agreement and to put all pay- ments between the two countries on a convertible currency basis from July 1, 1970. June 9. The National Bank issued certain com- memorative gold coins. A limited number were made available to residents. The rest were sold abroad. July 1. A payments arrangement signed on May 29, 1969 by the National Bank of Yugosla- via and the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute went into effect. The two institutions opened accounts denominated in U.S. dollars in each other's names and granted each other a reciprocal credit. The existing bilateral payments agreement was term ina ted. July 1. A new trade protocol with Spain went into effect. Trade between the two countries would, to the extent possible, be balanced. July 76. A protocol was signed amending the Trade Expansion and Economic Cooperation Agreement with India and the United Arab Republic. Additional import duty concessions were extended to both countries. October 1. The National Bank raised the inter- est rate on foreign currency accounts held by Yugoslav citizens, including those residing or working abroad, from 4 per cent to 5 per cent for demand deposits and one-year time deposits and from 6 per cent to 7 per cent for time depos- its for a period in excess of one year. October 1. The import regime for 1970 was announced. November 9. The accordance system was dis- ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution YUGOSLAVIA continued for the 21 items in List B. Previously, the issuance of an accordance for these goods could be made conditional on past or future exports of Yugoslav commodities to the country of origin or to another specified country; the items concerned included many textile fabrics, various domestic appliances, and transistor radios. December 25. It was announced that with effect from Janua ry 2, 1970 profits of joint ven- tures could be transferred up to one third of their convertible currency earnings from exports of goods and services. December 31. The bilateral payments agree- ment with Ghana was terminated with effect from March 1, 1970. November 27. 45 types of appliances and con- sumer durab le goods required a certificate of origin. December 31. The bilateral payments agree- ment with Tunisia was terminated with effect from January 1, 1970. 561 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA Exchange Rate System The par value is 1.24414 grams of fine gold per Zamb ian Kwacha or K 1 = US$1.40. The authorized banks base the ir rates for other cur- rencies on the current London market rates. Administration of Control Exchange control is administered by the Bank of Zambia under powers delegated to it by the Vice-Président. Much of the au thor i ty for approv- ing normal current payments is in tu rn delegated to the commercial and merchant banks. The con- trol of trade is the responsibility of the Minister of Trade and Commerce, who also issues import and export licenses. Prescription of Currency Zambia is a member of the Sterling Area and m a in t a ins prescription of cu r rency requ iremen ts s im i lar to those of the United Kingdom. Settle- ments w i th residents of other coun tr ies in the Sterling Area may be made in Zambian currency, in s ter l ing, or in other Sterling Area currencies. Au thor ized paymen ts, inc lud ing payments for impor ts, by residents of Zambia to residents of coun tr ies outside the Sterling Area other than Rhodesia may be made in sterling or in Zambian currency to the credit of an External Account, or in any fo re ign currency other than Rhodesian pounds. Payments f rom countries outside the Sterling Area except Rhodesia may be received in sterling or in Zamb ian currency from an External Account, or in any cu r rency f ree ly exchangeable for sterling. Special regulations apply to settle- ments w i th Rhodesia. All pe rm i t ted payments to residents of Rhodesia mu st be made in Rhode- sian currency, in Zamb ian currency to an Exter- nal Account-Rhodesia, in sterling to a Rhode- sian Account in the Un i ted Kingdom, in U.S. dollars, or in Canadian dollars, and proceeds from exports to Rhodesia must be received in U.S. or Canadian dollars. Nonresident Accounts Accounts in Zambian currency held by resi- dents of other parts of the Sterling Area are des- ignated Scheduled Area Accounts. These 562 accounts may be credited with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds, with authorized payments by residents, and w i th t ran s fe rs f rom other Scheduled Area Accounts. Balances on these accounts may be converted free ly in to other Sterling Area curren- cies, may be used to pay residents of Zambia, or may be t rans fe r red to other Scheduled Area Accounts. Accounts in Zamb ian currency held with au thor ized banks by residents of countries outside the S ter l ing Area other than Rhodesia are desig- nated Ex te rnal Accounts. These accounts may be credited w i th au thor ized payments f rom residents of the Sterling Area, w i th t rans fe rs f rom other Ex ternal Accounts, and with the proceeds from sales of any foreign currency except Rhodesian pounds by nonresidents to authorized banks. They may be debited for payments to residents of the Sterling Area, for transfers to other External Accounts or to Scheduled Area Accounts, and for purchases of any foreign currency other than Rhodesian pounds f rom authorized banks. Blocked accounts in Zambian currency held w i th au tho r ized banks by residents of any coun- try other than Zambia are credited with non- t ran s fe rab le capital sums in Zambian currency wh ich have accrued to nonresidents. All debits and cred i ts to such accounts require the prior approval of the exchange control authorities. No rma l ly, approval is given for the investment of balances on blocked accounts in Zambian securi- ties, provided that these are held in Zambia to the order of an authorized dealer. The interest on blocked account balances is freely transferable to the account holder's country of residence, except interest due to a resident of Rhodesia, wh i ch is also blocked. Imports and Import Payments Most imports from Rhodesia are prohibited. Imports of a few items listed in the first schedule of the open general license for imports do not require ind iv idual licenses, nor do any other goods, provided that they are not listed in the second schedule of the open general license and that the person impor t ing them does not import ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution more than K 50 worth of such goods in any one month. The goods included in the second sched- ule of the open general license are clothing and un iforms of a m i l i ta ry type and secondhand clothing, gold, bags made of jute fiber, sugar, wheat flour, flick knives, accounting machines for sterling accounts, explosives, cement, fishing nets, twines, threads, yarns, bricks, certain radios and radiograms for domestic use, some cups, saucers, and plates, cheap blankets, matches, motor vehi- cles w i th four-wheel drive, some footwear, crown corks and stoppers, rubber tires and tubes, gaso- line, aviation turb ine fue l, paraff in for illumina- tion, automotive gas oil, and earthenware pipes. For some of these goods, licenses are generally refused. The goods included in the first schedule are certain oil products, coal and coke, personal and household effects, samples, and diplomatic shipments. No imports are permitted of sugar, cement, wheat flour, nylon nets, nylon thread and yarns, and certain radios. Prohibitive tariffs are imposed on tires and refrigerators. Certain con- sumer goods are imported exclusively by, or under the supervision of, official agencies. Import licensing aims in pa rt at containing imports from Rhodesia and avoiding the Rhode- sian transport routes. With a view to promoting alternative transport routes bypassing Rhodesia, certain goods are required to be imported via Dar es Salaam. This entails restriction of imports of these goods from South Africa, as goods of South A f r ican origin cannot be discharged in Dar es Salaam. Foreign exchange or permission to credit a nonresident account in accordance with the pre- scription of currency regulations is authorized automatically for all permitted imports, subject to the presentation of the relevant documents show- ing that the goods have either been received in or consigned to Zambia; special arrangements are in force, however, for payments in respect of freight charges on goods carried by Rhodesia Railways. Unless prior permission is otherwise obtained, all imports must be paid for within six months of the da te of importation. Payments for invisibles Exchange to pay for invisibles related to imports, and also, up to certain limits, for other ZAMBIA purposes, such as travel, is provided by the com- mercial banks w i thout prior reference to the exchange control. Special, reduced allocations apply to payments for invisibles to Rhodesia. For other countries, exchange is granted as follows. The basic exchange allowance for travel is K 20 a day for an adu l t, with a max imum of K 900 for each period of two calendar years, and K 10 a day for each child under 12 years of age, with a m ax imum of K 450 for two calendar years. Exchange is provided, subject to certain limits, for other purposes, such as education, medical t rea tmen t, and business travel. Applications for amounts exceeding the limits may in certain cir- cumstances be granted by the exchange control authorities if they are satisfied that the exchange is needed for genuine current payments. Applications for remittance abroad of part or all of payments for management, accounting, adm in is tra t ive, engineering, and consulting serv- ices rendered to residents or subsidiary compa- nies in Zambia by nonresidents or head offices abroad of subsidiaries located in Zambia, are subject to ind iv idual approval by the Bank of Zambia, which grants the required permission, provided that the fees charged are reasonable and that these services cannot be provided domesti- cally. Profits and dividends may be transferred abroad up to 30 per cent of paid-up equity capi- tal, provided that the 30 per cent of equity capi- tal does not exceed one half of the net profits; exempt from this provision are companies with at least 51 per cent Zambian ownership. The remittance of depreciation allowances is not per- m i t ted. Foreign nationals employed in Zambia under a contract of not more than five years are perm i t ted to remit one half of their earnings to Sterling Area countries and Rhodesia if they were recruited outside Zambia and one third if re- cruited in Zambia; applications for remittances to other countries are usually approved, provided that the applicant is normally resident outside the Sterling Area. These remittance facilities are available also to expatriates serving on pension- able terms of service or on contract after conver- sion from pensionable terms. Foreign nationals availing themselves of these arrangements are not entitled to the regular allowances for travel, edu- cation, maintenance, etc. To facilitate small pay- ments, individuals are freely permitted to remit 563 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution ZAMBIA abroad up to K 20 a month for purposes nor- mally approved by the exchange control authori- ties. Travelers may not take out more than K 10 in Zambian currency and the equivalent of K 20 in foreign currency notes. Exports and Export Proceeds All exports valued at over K 50 require a license; metals, however, are exported under gen- eral agreements with the m in ing companies. Most exports to Rhodesia are prohibited. Certain com- modities are subject to licensing ma in ly to ensure domestic supplies of needed goods and of certain strategic materials, such as implements of war, lead in any form, certain minerals, petroleum products, certain rough and uncut precious stones, scrap and old metals, and ju te bags. For most goods, however, export licenses are issued freely, and some goods are covered by an open general license. Export proceeds in foreign cur- rency appropriate to the country of destination must be offered for sale to an authorized bank w i th in six months of the date of shipment. Proceeds from invisibles Receipts from invisibles in any currency must be offered for sale to an authorized bank. Except for travelers from the Democratic Republic of Congo, there is no limitation on the amount of foreign currency notes that may be imported by travelers. The import of Zambian currency is lim- ited to K 10 for each traveler. Capital Inward transfers of capital are not restricted. Outward transfers of capital, including those to other parts of the Sterling Area, are controlled, but nonresidents are normally permitted to repa- triate their investments when they have satisfied the authorities that the original investment was made with funds brought into the country from sources outside Zambia. In general, residents are not permitted to trans- fer capital abroad and, with certain exceptions, are required to offer for sale to an authorized bank any foreign exchange which accrues to 564 them. As a special measure, however, residents may purchase Zambian securities quoted on rec- ognized stock exchanges in the Sterling Area, provided that the securities so acquired are regis- tered in the names of specified nominees and that in the event of subsequent disposal of these securities the sales proceeds are repatriated. All income earned from these investments must be repatriated. Emigrants are granted exchange as follows: (1) Persons 50 years of age and over are allowed K 16,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 10,000. (2) Married per- sons under 50 are allowed K 8,000 on departure, together w i th K 500 for each child, up to a maxi- mum of K 10,000 for a fam i ly unit. Thereafter, annual transfers of K 6,000, together with K 500 for each child, up to a max imum of K 8,000 for a fam i ly un it are permitted. (3) Unmarried per- sons under 50 are allowed K 4,000 on departure, and subsequent annual transfers of K 3,000. Per- sons who have been employed on a contract basis and whose length of continuous residence has not exceeded five years are allowed to remit all their savings to their new country of residence. Persons who have been residents for longer than five years are normally granted emigration treatment when they finally leave Zambia; in addition to the ir emigration allowance, they may remit gratu- ities, compensation payments, and terminal bene- fits. Gold Residents may hold and acquire gold coins in Zambia for numismatic purposes. With this exception, residents other than the monetary authorities and authorized industrial users are not allowed to hold or acquire gold in any form other than jewe lry, at home or abroad. Imports and exports of gold in any form other than jewelry require licenses issued by the Minister of Trade and Commerce; such licenses are not normally granted except for imports and exports by or on behalf of the monetary authorities and industrial users. Gold-bearing slime is exported by copper companies as a by-product for refining and sale abroad. Foreign exchange for imports of gold may only be provided with the permission of the Bank of Zambia. ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Changes during 1969 January 2. The right of expatriates employed in Zambia on a contract basis to make remit- tances abroad was extended to expatriates serving in Zambia on pensionable terms of service or on contract after conversion from pensionable terms; these facilities thus became available also to civil servants. Persons availing themselves of these remittance facilities would not be eligible for any other foreign exchange allowance for such pur- poses as maintenance, education, or travel. May 12. Travelers leaving from or arriving in Zambia were permitted to export or import Zambian currency up to K 10 a person. Author- ized dealers could import Zambian currency from banks abroad, provided that they had acquired it from Zambian travelers observing the K 10 limit. Previously, all imports and exports of domestic currency were prohibited. August 77. It was announced that the restric- tions on the remittance of profits and dividends and on local borrowing would no longer apply to companies with at least 51 per cent Zambian ownership. August 77. It was announced that specified commodities would be imported only by state companies. The goods concerned included iron and steel, timber, glassware, builders' hardware, cloth, and yarn. ZAMBIA August 11. The forthcoming establishment of a National Import Agency was announced. It would be charged with the importation of many consumer goods. Existing trading companies and import agents would be designated as sole importers of specified goods, under the supervi- sion of the new agency. Thus, private importers would continue to hand le imports of consumer goods, with certain exceptions such as textiles and building materials. August 29. Certain amendments to the Consti- tution empowered the National Assembly to impose exchange restrictions on the remittance abroad of any compensation paid for the compul- sory acquisition of any property or interest. September. The functions of the Ministry of Trade, Mines, and Industry were split and those relating to external trade and its licensing were entrusted to a renamed Ministry of Trade and Commerce. September 20. The control over local borrow- ing by corporate bodies was removed, except in respect of those controlled, directly or indirectly, outside Zambia or by persons who are not citi- zens of Zambia. This entailed the removal of con- trol over local borrowing by companies with at least 51 per cent Zambian ownership. 565 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution This page intentionally left blank ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Analytical Appendix ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. A r t ic le V I II status 2. A r t ic le XIV s ta tus 3. Agreed par value^ exists 4. Par value applied 5. Un i ta ry e f fec t ive ra te, not par value (a) fixed rate (b) f ree ly f luc tua t ing rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special ra te (s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 7. Import ra te (s) d i f f e r ent f rom export ra te (s) 8. More than one rate for impor ts 9. More than one rate for exports 10. Res tr ic t ions exist on payments in respect of cu r rent trans- actions 3 11. Restrictions exist on paymen ts in respect of capital trans- actions 3-4 12. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th members 14. B i la teral payments arrange- ments w i th nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds requ ired 18. Part of larger mone tary area * 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation « - X X X - X X X X . X X X - X X - - - X - - X X X - X X X X X - - X X - OS X - X X - - . . X - - - X X - X X - X X - - - . X X - - - X X X X - X X . - - - X X X - X = X X - X X . - - - . _ X - X - - - X X - X - . X - = _ - - - X X - X - X X X - - 0 X X - - - X X X - X X - X X X X X X X X X - X - X X X - - X X X - - - X - - - X X X - - X X X - - - X - X - - - - X - - X X X X X - X - - - X - - X - X X X X = X X X X - X X - - . _ - - = = - - X - - X X X X X X X = X X X - X X X X X X X X X X X X X X - - X - - . - - - X X X - X - X X X - X X - X - - - X X X - - - X X - X - X - - . X X X X X X _ - X X X - - X X - X X X X X X X X X X X X X X - - X _ - - X X X - = X - X X - - X _ - - X X x. X X ' X X X X - X X _ - - - _ _ - - X - - X - X X X X - _ - - - X X X - X - X X - For key and footnotes, see page 572. 568 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution— — Countries' Restrictive Systems 1 country survey) 2 - X - - _ X X X X X X X X - X X _ _ X X - X = X X X - X X _ X X - X X X - - X X X X _ _ X - X X X X X X - X X _ X X J£ - X X X X - - - - _ o .Ti X = X - - X X X _ X X Y - = X X - - X X X _ X X - X X X X - X X X X X - = X X - X - - _ X X Y - = X X - X X X _ X X V - = X X X - X X _ . - = X - X X X X X X X X X X - X X X _ X X X X X X X X - X X _ X X Y - X X X X - X - - _ X X X X X X X X - X X _ _ X - X X X X - X X _ X X - X = - X - X X _ _ . - X = X X - X X X x X J£ . - = = - - X X X _ X X X X X X - - X X X _ X X X X X - - X - - X _ Y_ - X X X X X - X X X _ X X Y X X X X X - X X X X X X Y X X X X X X - X X X . X Y - = X X - X X X _ X X Y X X = - X - X X _ _ X Y_ - = X X - X - - _ X X Y - = X X X - X X _ X Y - = X X X - X X _ . X Y - = X X - - X X X _ X X Y - X X X - X X X _ X X - = X X 1 2 3 4 5 (n.}Va/ fM\u) (r „ — „ „ Principal Features of Member (as at date of 1. A r t ic le V I II s ta tus 2. A r t ic le XIV s ta tus 3. Agreed par va lue exists 4. Par value applied 5. Un i t a ry e f f e c t ive ra te, not par value (a) f ixed rate (b) f ree ly f luc tua t ing ra te (c) pegged rate 6. Special r a t e ( s) for some or all capital transac t ions and /or some or all invisibles 7. Impo rt ra te (s) d i f f e r e nt f rom export r a t e ( s) 8. More than one rate for impo r ts 9. More than one ra te for exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of c u r r e nt trans- actions 3 11. Res t r ic t ions exist on paymen ts in respect of cap i tal trans- actions 3-4 12. P resc r ip t ion of cu r rency 13. Bilateral paymen ts arrange- men ts w i th membe rs 14. B i la te ral paymen ts arrange- ments w i th nonmembe rs 15. Impo rt surcharges 16. Advance impo rt deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds requ i red 18. Part of larger mone ta ry area 6 19. Pa r t ic ipa tes in reg ional economic cooperation 8 - x - -. - X _ - - - X X X X X X - - X - X X. - X X X - _ _ X - - - X X X - - . - X X X X _ X - X X - - X X - . X . _ X X X - - - X X X_ o X X - X X X X X X. _ . _ - - - X X X X„ _ X X X X X X - X - - X _ X X X - X X X X X X _ X X X X X X - - X X_ _ . X X X X X X X - - X _ X X X X X - X X X X X X. _ X X X - X X - X - - X _ X X X - X X X X X X„ X X X X X X X - X - X X. _ _ _ X X - - - X - X X X _ X X X X X - X X X - - X X X„ _ X X X X X X - X - - X - X X„ _ X X X - - - - X X - X X. _ _ _ - - X - X - X X X. _ X X X X X X X - X X„ _ X . _ X - - X - X - - X _ - X X X - - X X X For key and foo tno tes, see page 572. 570 ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution„ — „ „ „ — Countries' Restrictive Systems 1 country survey) 2 - X X X X - - X X X X - X _ X - X X - X - X X X X X X X X X X - X _ _ - - = - - - X - X X X X - X - X X - - _ - - X - X - X X X X - - X - X - X X X X X X X - X - X X X X - - X - X X - X _ _ - - = - - - X - X X X - X X X - X X X X X - X X X X - X _ X - X X X X - X X X X X X X - X - X X X X - - X X X - X - J£ X X - - X X - - X X X X X X X - - - X X X X X X X - - X - X _ X - X X - X - X X o X - - X X X X - X _ X - X = - X - X - X X X X X - X - X X X X - - X X X - X X _ X - - X - X - X - X X - - X X X - X X _ X - - X X X - X X X X X X X X - - X X X X X X X - X - X X X X - - X X X - X - X X X X X - X X - X X X - - X X X X - X _ _ - - = - - - X - X X - - X X X 1 2 4 5 „ Principal Features of Member Countries' Restrictive Systems l (as at date of country survey) 2 Key and Footnotes X indicates that practice exists; — ind ica tes tliat Pra<stice does not exist; and O indicates that position is uiiucbcmuiied. 1 Practices indicated as existing do not necessarily apply to all transactions. I In most cases, December 31, 1969. Where the date is a d i f fe rent one, this is indicated in a footnote. » Payments to member countries. Restrictions in the fo rm of quan- titative limits or undue delay other than restrictions imposed for security reasons. 4 Resident-owned fund s. 6 Part of French Franc Area or Sterling Area. • Membership in, or association w i th, A f r ican and Malagasy Common Organization, Anglo-Irish Free Trade Area, A rab Common Ma rke t, Association of Southeast Asian Nations, Australia-New Zealand Free Trade Agreement, Caribbean Free Trade Association, Central A f r i c an Customs and Economic Un ion, Central Amer ican Common Ma rke t, Customs Un ion of West A f r ican States, East A f r i c an Commun i ty, European Economic Commun i ty, European Free Trade Association, La t in Amer ican Free Trade Association, Mozamb ique Convention, Organization of Senegal River States, Regional Cooperation for Development ( I r an, Pakistan, and Tu rkey ), Southern A f r ican Customs Un ion, or West A f r i c an Economic Commun i ty. • As of February 4, 1970. • As of Ma rch 5, 1970. • As of Apr il 7, 1970. !» As of Janua ry 8, 1970. II As of Janua ry 9, 1970. » As of Apr il 6, 1970. 572 1. Article V I II status 2. Article XIV status 3. Agreed par value exists 4. Par value applied 5. Unitary effec t ive rate, not par value (a) fixed rate (b) freely fluctuating rate (c) pegged rate 6. Special rate (s) for some or all capital transactions and/or some or all invisibles 7. Import rate(s) d i f fe rent f rom export rate(s) 8. More than one rate for imports 9. More than one rate for exports 10. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of current trans- actions ' 11. Restrictions exist on payments in respect of capital trans- actions 3 >4 12. Prescription of currency 13. Bilateral payments arrange- ments w i th members 14. Bilateral payments arrange- ments with nonmembers 15. Import surcharges 16. Advance import deposits 17. Surrender of export proceeds required 18. Part of larger monetary area 4 19. Participates in regional economic cooperation » - X X - 7 - - X - X X X X X X X X X - X - X X -7 - - X X X 7 - - = X - X - X - - 7 - - X X X X X X - X X X - - - X X X7 - - - - X X X X X X - - - - X X X7 - - - - X X X - = - X X - ©International Monetary Fund. Not for Redistribution 